ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e24	The called alternate of the Telemark County, Sindre Fossum Beyer, has taken the seat. The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e32	It is a pleasure to be able to make proposals from the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Jan Henrik Fredriksen, Vigdis Giltun and myself to set requirements for response time for the ambulance service throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e37	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e61	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Council of State Øystein Djupedal State Council Karita Bekkemelm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e80	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. ‘The school’s main unresolved problem and challenge are trouble and unrest. It's a time thief of rank. The reason is that the school lacks structure.’ The Progress Party has said this for a long time, but this time is the quotation from Professor Terje Ogden at the University of Oslo, in a statement to the Gudbrandsdøren Dagningen 4th May this year. He also says, ‘The skill of teachers is perceived as weakness. The teacher’s role needs to be clarified and made clear, and teachers need to be better educated.’ Children's Ombudsman Reidar Hjermann says to the newspaper Dagsavisen, December 8, 2004: ‘Children may become disturbed when they do not feel secure in the learning situation. It is a clear sign that the students do not accept the teacher as a leader of the students.’ For many years, the party of progress has been alone in claiming that there is a link between the learning environment and the learning outcomes. The fact that noise and unrest contribute to the reduction of learning outcomes is now confirmed both by researchers and by international studies. The teacher’s role in the classroom has changed a lot in the last 10–15–20 years. The teacher's competence in leadership is crucial for keeping calm and order in the classroom, and it is crucial for the learning outcomes to be good. For this reason, the Progress Party has made several proposals to improve the leadership role of teachers. Among other things, we have the proposal to allow management training to be part of compulsory general teacher training. We have put forward proposals for continuing training for teachers, focusing on classroom management, to improve the learning environment. How will the Council of State now ensure that teachers will be able to handle the leadership responsibilities of the classroom from the next harvest? Although the State Council talks to the media, action has been lacking. Does the Council of State now intend to do something concrete about the biggest problem in Norwegian school, or is the plan to remain completely calm and wait and hope that it goes over?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e104	What the representative addresses is a very important question. It is a significant challenge in Norwegian school. We see from the student survey that the students themselves report that what they are most dissatisfied with in school is that there is concern, and that the unrest is obviously going down on the learning environment. Creating teachers who have authority, without being authoritarian, is a significant challenge. Here we have to start with teacher training. In teacher training, ensuring the role of the teacher is of great importance to the way the teacher is perceived in the classroom. This is also seen in the comprehensive evaluation of teacher training that we have now had, i.e. NOKUS’ review, which we are now following in various ways. Strengthening this part of teacher training is one of the measures we are now considering, simply because it is necessary. In the depths, this is about being safe in the teacher's role. Recreating the security and authority of the teacher is one of the things that we're concerned about. In other words, through teacher training, the teacher must ensure that a person is given the professional security needed to cope with demanding situations in a class. Then we also have many extensive attempts – let me stress it – that it is up to the individual school owner to initiate. There we have the Olweus programme, the PALS programme and other programmes dealing with the creation of calm and orderly systems and the improvement of the learning environment. It's like we have a lot of macro-measures from the department, but we also have micro-measures. The challenge is how this is handled in each school. Creating good environments for the teacher and creating security around the situation in the classroom is a very important part of this. In this way, school management is also very important. This means that the management of the school and the school owners together must address this in situations of concern in the class. I don't think there's any quick fix for how to do this. We have a school with 620,000 children, and we have over 100,000 teachers in school. Creating a classroom situation that provides everyone with security and inclusion is therefore very demanding given as many situations as the school is up in every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e117	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State says that he takes this problem seriously. The challenge is to distinguish between saying that a person wants to take something seriously, and actually doing something about it. I think the end of the answer from the Council of State is a certain form of disclaimer, because he points to the individual school as the one to solve this challenge. The thing is, we haven't had enough focus from the state on these kinds of problems over time, and this has led us to develop a school where peace and quiet are no longer present, where the learning environment of the students is so dramatic that 40 pst. They say that almost every professional hour is disturbed by trouble and unrest. They can't work properly. Therefore, it is necessary to take some real, general grip and not just refer to a lot of fragmentary attempts around. There is no overall plan to address this challenge, and therefore I would like to ask the Council of State the following follow-up questions: Will the Council now support the Progress Party to become part of compulsory general teacher training? And: Will the State Council now support the Progress Party in having a separate training plan, where will management be the focus of the teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e126	If you were sure you could take one overall grip and thus solve all the situations that arise in a classroom, I don't think there would be any politician who would have been against it. But everyone knows that life in a classroom situation is more demanding than that. It's the teacher who meets the students in the classroom, and that's where the noise is. It's quite right and clear that we can't have a situation in the classroom where anxiety goes beyond learning, beyond safety and well-being at school. That is why we are also taking care of it. We have many programmes that we support and that we have taken the initiative to do. We focus on well-being, on a good learning environment. Throughout our period of government, we have focused on this, and we also spend money on supporting different programmes that enable the school to achieve these goals, for example. The Olweus programme, the PALS programme and other similar programmes. It is also an important part of teacher training to train teachers who have a natural authority in the classroom as well as security around the teaching role. How we're going to do this better, we're going to deal with our institutions. I'm open to notions of how we're going to do it, because in every situation of life that concerns people, there's no very simple answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e135	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e138	The knowledge party on the right had a very successful national meeting, where we decided among other things. requirements for formal schoolleader education for all schoolleaders. Recreation is a central management challenge, both in classroom management and in school management. It requires competence, and it's about creating good learning environments. I think it's about clarifying the chain of responsibility between good school ownership, good school management and good class management. State Council Djupedal's own report on social marginalisation at school also highlights the importance of clear and clear school management. The question to the State Council will then be: Is he willing to support a requirement for formal schoolleader education in the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e147	It's quite right, as Gundersen's representative says, that in the big news we've just dealt with in Stortinget, this is very important with management at school. I agree with the whole premise, that both the school owner, the school manager and the teacher all have a responsibility to contribute to this. Of course, as an educational authority, we have a responsibility to facilitate this. Having formal education in school management is a proposal that has been discussed. It was discussed in the previous pouring period during the previous government, but it was not then concluded. In the evaluation of general teacher training following the comprehensive report that came last autumn, we look at various measures in teacher training that can strengthen the teacher's authority, the role of the teacher and, in particular, the status of the teacher. This is what we are doing now in many different fields, and it also means that we want the teachers' students who come into the teacher's study to be aware that this part of the teacher's study is very important, namely to be able to deal with students with an authority that creates a well-being and a good learning environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e155	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e158	Anxiety and violence in school are all about making school a master venue for all students to a great extent. When pupils get short in a theory-based school, they have to be offered a more practical school day. Kids need to get a chance to succeed in school. The challenges may be greatest in high school. This can reproduce further and lead to many ‘drop-outs’ in higher education. The problems start earlier. The youth school has fallen between several chairs in recent reforms in School-Norway. The Christian People's Party believes that it is now the secondary school's turn. Something has to be done for all those who fall outside a theory school, who fail in today's school. That's some of the causes of violence and unrest. My question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State actually do to put the school and those who fail to succeed in school in focus?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e167	We're doing two things. One is that we follow up on the big message that Stortinget has just addressed – the one that is called ‘...... and no one was left. Early efforts for lifelong learning’ — which is about addressing the problem before it has the opportunity to develop. We've seen that Norwegian school has unfortunately had a tendency to let things evolve, to think that things go over. What we know today is that things don't go over, they're being reinforced. Many of those who struggle in high school and drop out of high school have in fact worn out over ten years in primary school. Taking up the problems and challenges early and giving these children the opportunity to master and learn is crucial for peace in the class, and not least for the success of their children. The success of children in school is the main point of our government's view that more children will succeed and fewer will fail through school. The second thing we do, which is of course a very important part of the whole, is that we spend a lot of money at school and on challenges in school, so that the school gives a little more flexibility within the academic and framework plan that lies there. I must also remind you that the previous government, with a broad majority in the Grand Duchy, carried out the Knowledge promise, with the professional and hourly distribution that lies there. We have chosen to implement it in line with the decisions taken by Stortinget. The evaluation of this will show if we're going to change direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e176	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e179	There's a problem with school anxiety. That's what many students have said, and the studies show it. On the left, we believe that the best way to combat this is good, safe teachers who feel that they have good professional support and good management support. From that point of view, the Left has promoted a proposal here in Stortinget on a number of measures that can be taken to increase respect for the teacher, a respect that can be achieved by being a professionally good and safe person in the class situation. We in the Left also like the "respect" word better than the "discipline" word in terms of having control in the classroom, which a teacher should have. I'm a little surprised that the Government refers to the other measures they're putting in place, because it's not so easy to see what other measures the Government is putting into action when they don't want to go into the Left's proposals. Nor is it easy to see that so much more money is spent, as the Council of State says, because the figures do not show that there is any dramatic increase in the use of money at school after the Council of State took over. What are the actual measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e186	I've commented on the role of the teacher in several articles, but let me comment on it again. Spending money on continuing education, changing teacher training to make students safer when they get to school, are important parts of a whole. The evaluation of general teacher training that we are now carrying out will show us what action we need to take. One of the measures we propose is: a separate secondary school teacher training. The University of Westfold has been given the means to start up such training from the fall of the year. One of the elements of a specialised education for high school is precisely youth culture, the management of young people in a phase of life where hormones are spreading and it is demanding to be a teacher in high school. Thus, one of the many measures we are now trying to take to see if we can succeed better is self-education specifically targeted at youth. It involves more specialisation towards steps, more specialisation towards subjects, but not least it involves giving the teacher authority and status. We do this both through education and through extensive efforts at continuing education. This year alone, we're using 375 million from the state. kroner on this, and the municipalities use something similar. So we're in a very comprehensive knowledge gap for the teacher, and we hope that it will also contribute in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e195	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e198	The councils have been at the head of a project called PALS, and he has already mentioned it twice here today. So it's a reward system that's supposed to reward normal behavior, but not punish bad behavior, and that's proven to be successful in American prisons. Senior lecturer in pedagogy at the University of Bergen Tjálve Madsen says that such a system has many weaknesses. Among other things, it builds up a starting point where the student only works for his own gain, and flattering and servitude becomes some of the most important skills. The system will only work when an adult is present. It does not solve the behavioral problem, and it can quickly be turned around so that the student requires benefits in order to behave normally. Why does the Council of State think it is wise to contribute to creating such a culture of demands among students, when there will be no likely impact on school unrest?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e207	We have a lot of projects in school. The Olweu programme is mentioned, PALS is different. This is about behavioral researchers giving advice on how to create a school system that contributes to peace, well-being and order. In Pals, the reward is the key, and it's right that it means that if you don't fight, the class can, for example, Collect enough points to get a pizza field, go to cinema together or do something else together. So it's not every student that scores points. It's the class as a whole that scores points to a common activity to enhance cohesion and well-being in school. It will be every school that decides whether they want to use such a program, but we'll make sure that these programs are available, and the directorate, which is our department, can assist with this. I can't go into the content of each of these programs. It's the professionals, our leading behavioral scientists, who assist the school, but I have to say that the effect of the PALS, as far as I know, has been positive. It has contributed to better learning environment, more well-being and less bullying, and to kids feeling more inclusive. So it could probably be an exception to this general rule, but it's my impression that this has worked well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e216	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e219	Since the downturn started in the mid-1980s and until today, some of the most important instruments around having a more relaxed and better relationship between Russia, the rest of Europe and the United States have been regulated in a number of agreements such as: are linked to the military forces. The CFE Agreement has been an important foundation for Euro-Atlantic security and the INF Agreement on medium-range missiles has been different. Recently – in the middle of NATO’s Foreign Minister’s meeting – President Putin spoke about the state of the state of the Duma, saying that the Russians no longer feel obliged to the CFE agreement, and that the important INF agreement, i.e. the medium-range missile agreement, might be abandoned in the future. Both parts are alert to a Russia that will eventually not feel bound by the old common security guarantees we have had. It is also a warning that Russia is now thinking new and more ambitious on its own nation's behalf, perhaps also in the military field. But it is not least a signal that Russia is not currently feeling that they are not trying to start a pressure on both neighboring countries and others in relation to the choices and freedoms they may want and the alliance they have. The Prime Minister has had a somewhat puzzled media attitude on some of these issues. Among other things, he has not been able to stand upright and say in the media that it is not that the rocket shields deployed in Central Europe are heading towards Russia at all. I would like the Foreign Minister's view on what has happened in Russia, and not least an explanation and an understanding of what is going to be the Government's attitude towards Russia in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e231	The President will recall that, at the beginning of his main question, it is necessary to clarify which Council of State the question is addressed to. But the president expects Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre to quickly perceive that there would come a question to him at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e234	After reflection I found out that it was probably for me! It requires a comprehensive response to describe developments in Russia. In two minutes I'm not going to go very detailed, but I think the representative Solberg has been involved in much of that. We see a more forward-looking Russia, a more self-confident Russia. They've paid off their debt, they're making more use of the international scene in many contexts, marking Russian interests. We did not receive with joy the message that came in that speech. We have now received information that the Russians declare moratorium, which is not a term contained in the agreement. What does that mean? It probably means that they're going to be sparing with the exchange of information and the warning of exercises. It's not a good sign either. Now the CFE agreement is an agreement of the cold war time, but it is no less important for that reason. I expressed to the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway would ratify that agreement within days, not weeks, when Russia fulfils what we believe to be their obligations under the Istanbul obligations and withdraws from Georgia and Moldova with forces. Norway's position on the rocket shield is that this is a theme internally in NATO. No country outside NATO can affect NATO's work on it. NATO security is indivisible. We have a process in NATO on it. The Riga Summit has decided that we should follow up discussions on threats assessments and answers to them. The U.S. initiative is a new element that comes outside NATO, and we are concerned that the issues that need to be addressed – and we have more – should be taken and discussed internally in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e245	There is no doubt that it has also been used as an excuse for the Russians to now rustle a little more with the shackles, and I think the Norwegian government should have been able to tell quite clearly that it has no reason for the Russians. I have been somewhat disappointed by the Prime Minister's media performance in some of these matters. I want to have a guarantee, because there are a lot of European human rights activists who suddenly think that many countries in Europe are not doing much enough. A few days ago, André Glucksmann wrote a heartwarming article in Le Figaro asking how many human rights activists would have to be killed before one really takes on the change that is taking place in Russia. In addition, we see nationalistically directed activity, among others. against Estonia, has increased significantly in the past. I would like a guarantee from the Government that we still believe that both Estonia, Georgia, Ukraine, Belarus and other countries have the right to choose their own future, and that we will not bow down to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e254	It is Norway's clear position that NATO has an open door, that becoming a member of NATO is to qualify for, and that those who are a member of NATO are part of the indivisible security. That is why it is quite clear in relation to our NATO ally Estonia. At the same time, we believe that we need to be able to address these issues – some of them – with reflection and transparency, without having to have a pre-conceived attitude towards Russia about always having to come. We must be able to listen to them. It is about showing respect for neighbouring countries, which also deserve to be heard, but pressure against smaller neighbouring countries, it takes Norway away from it. As regards the question about the rocket shield, I believe that the Norwegian government during the NATO summit was quite clear on this. It's an internal NATO issue that no external party can deal with. At the same time, the United States and NATO countries also agree that this should be discussed with Russia. We do not believe Russia to be a threat. This rocket shield being discussed is not aimed at Russia, but at other threats. If we are serious, we must also be able to have a dialogue with the Russians, to take them on board. That is also the attitude of the Americans now, as I have understood it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e265	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Øyvind Vaksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e268	We receive daily conflicting signals about what is really happening on the political front in Russia. Some signals suggest that our neighbouring country is developing slowly, but surely in a more democratic direction, while other signals may indicate that Russia is going in the opposite direction and is now far more distant from the rest of Europe. One example is Russia's failure to ratify Protocol 14 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which is absolutely necessary to bring about the very important modernisation of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. What is the general view of the Foreign Minister of political developments in Russia? Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed to his Russian colleague the serious consequences facing him in Strasbourg due to Russia's lack of ratification?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e277	There are interesting questions: Where is Russia going? Where is Russian democracy going? What kind of democracy will it be when there is a more stable situation? It is interesting to note here that Russia should have two important choices, at national Parliaments and at Presidents. It will be implemented in a way that meets the criteria that Russia has committed to both through the OSCE and through the Council of Europe, and it will be followed very closely. I think it's going to be an important measure of whether Russia meets those requirements. There's a hard-handed attitude towards the opposition, as we've seen in recent weeks, an ominous sign. At the same time, I think we should be aware that the upheavals after 70 years of communism, which Russia is going through, chaos in the 1990s, reaching a kind of order and economic growth, and – we must admit – a president who has a great popularity in the country, is a complex social and political development. With regard to the Council of Europe, Russia has led the Council of Europe last year. That is the way to go in order to be able to link them more firmly to us, and to continue to be able to make demands, as the representative of Vaksdal is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e288	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e291	It is important that Norway speaks clearly about both the development of democracy and human rights, and that Norway stands firm in its NATO loyalty when such issues arise. I want to go back a little bit to what Erna Solberg was starting from, the growing mistrust between east and west that President Putin's statements unfortunately bear witness to. The threat of withdrawing from the agreement that obliges the parties to disarmament and conventional weapons and forces in Europe is an expression of this. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What can Norway do to prevent the growing distrust between Russia and NATO countries, and what can Norway in particular do to help ensure that Russia complies with the CFE Agreement and that it is ratified as quickly as possible by as many countries as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e300	We talked about this in the Storting just before the NATO meeting here. Then we had a debate on Russia, and then I expressed that Norway must be NATO ally, Norway must be a partner in Europe. Where Norway can make its special contribution is in the north. There we have a neighbour relationship with Russia. It's a good neighborhood relationship. We noticed that although there was a tougher tone between NATO and Russia, there was still a positive bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia in its development the next day in the meeting with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov. Norway has a contact area and an experience that the representative Høybräten knows about from his presidency at the Nordic Council. Here we have an intervention with Russia in part of the great country on which we must play. I think that's a very important channel. With regard to Norway's special role in making Russia comply with the CFE agreement, I think it is that, together with our allies in European forums, we are working towards progress on the outstanding issues, which are Georgia and Moldova. It also requires that we are able to maintain the dialogue channels, the conversations, and also continue to build trust, not by the fact that Russian behavior we don't like is premiered, but trust that we are also able to meet them with firmness in conversations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e307	Anne Margrethe Larsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e311	In connection with this NATO meeting, the Minister for Foreign Affairs held a bilateral meeting with the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov. He could assure me that this would not lead to a forced conventional upgrading on the Kola Peninsula. This is a legitimate concern from a Norwegian point of view, as this was precisely the case after the conclusion of the CFE agreement at the beginning of the 1990s. Russia then adapted its provisions by moving conventional weapons north to Kola. From the Norwegian side, we are also concerned about the development of vital human rights in Russia, and the Left has also raised the problem of human rights throughout the region, among others. in Belarus. How little does the Foreign Minister have in Lavrov's insurance, and will Norway continue to put pressure on important human rights issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e320	To the last question, the answer is yes, so I don't go into it anymore. It is quite clear, and that is a long line in Norwegian policy. I think here we're going to have a combination of attaching trust and looking at what's really going on. The reality is that there has been a decline in Kola since the end of the war. What Lavrov wanted to underline after he had read Norwegian media was that the comments on the CFE agreement did not mean that one would reverse what had been built up there. I don't think Russia is in such a situation. They do not have capacity, and they do not have an interest in deploying forces in those areas where there is a low voltage. It's also our job to contribute to it. So there's no point in that, and the reduction of Russian defence that has been, both because of bad economy and because of a changed threat picture, I don't think I'm going to change. Now there is a modernisation of the Russian defence. It's not just negative, because there was a lot of junk and poor quality. We're also modernizing our defenses, but I think we still have to hold on to being able to have a neighbourhood between east and west that makes use of deployment of military forces a less relevant tool to achieve the goals of Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e329	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e332	Russia has more neighbouring countries than Norway, as it is known. A few days ago, through the Russian Embassy, the Stortinget received an official declaration adopted by the highest parliamentary body in the Russian Federation’s Federal Assembly – the Federation Council. This statement reads about the Russians who live in the territory of Estonia ‘on the will of history’. It is also read that the Estonian state authorities are neo-Nazis acting barbarically. It all comes out in a call for government leadership — i.e. President Putin – about putting into action ‘a set of measures up to the most severe steps, including the breach of diplomatic relations’. This is addressed to one of the neighbouring countries of Russia, which is also a member of NATO, like Norway, and which, together with the Swedish and Finnish Governments, have concluded an agreement with Norway to establish one of the EU Battle Groups. How serious does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that there is reason to attribute this type of language of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e344	There's reason to attach such power language seriously, and there's reason to mark it. I have asked our ambassador in Moscow to visit the Estonian ambassador with a visible profile to show that Norway is standing around the critical situation that was there, and also in our contacts directly with the Estonian authorities, which we have on an ongoing basis. This type of language usage is, in my opinion, unacceptable between neighbours. This is not the way to solve outstanding problems in Europe. There are different cultures of linguistic use in different national Parliaments, even in the highest bodies. We have seen Russian language usage also targeting us, which falls completely unreasonable, and we have had reason to say so. I would like to stress here that we are showing solidarity to Estonia with them as a NATO member. So let's do that. At the same time, we are concerned that the questions that history has created between Russia and Estonia must be resolved peacefully by diplomatic means, and I believe that Russian diplomacy will be more focused on it than on following the signals that we see here from Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e353	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e356	I have questions for the Minister of Knowledge. A new report from the Education Association shows that every fourth student is in a class of more than twenty elephants. At the same time, there are increasing numbers of non-pedagogical assistants in school. A strong public school depends on a government that invests in both the learning environment and content. Therefore, the school needs to be secured resources. According to the Christian People's Party, it is far more important than a longer school day. With more teachers in school and smaller groups, there will be more time for each student. The group size and the learning density affect the ability of a customised learning environment. The government is busy with day-to-day kindergartens and all day school. The Christian People's Party believes the most important job is to ensure enough growth to give our children a safe everyday life in kindergarten and school. A report from ECON Analysis estimates that parents want nursery facilities for about 260,000 children in 2008. Now it's about 235,000 in kindergarten. That's why it's still a while until we get full child care coverage, especially in many of the big cities, even though a city like Kristiansand – run by the Christian People's Party – has had full child care coverage for the last three years. But kindergartens are of little value without qualified staff. In 2006 we lack 13.2 pst. by supervisors and pedagogical leaders with approved pre-school teacher training. That means we're missing about 2,500 pre-school teachers, and we're going to lack a lot more by the end of 2007, and even more when the maximum price step 2 is introduced. The school is missing teachers, kindergarten is missing preschool teachers. Both places there's plenty of room. Safe growth is not the storage of children in all-day schools and evening open kindergartens without qualified staff. My question to the Council of State is: When can parents expect full child care coverage with qualified staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e371	I am very happy to say that we have very high-quality kindergartens in Norway. It also shows user surveys. Kindergartens are the public institution that has the highest level of satisfaction among its users, i.e. its parents. It is a very clear quality sign, because the parents are in the kindergartens twice a day – in the morning when they deliver, and in the afternoon when they pick up. During the period from Stortinget, we have made the nursery arrangement in 2003 and until now have had a very large extension. As a result, 30,000 new children have been given kindergarten. During the same period, the coverage of pre-school teachers in kindergarten is 33 p.m. So that means that every third employee in kindergarten was a preschool teacher and still is. There are many thousands of new ones in kindergarten who are educated. It is also gratifying to see that when applying for admission to higher education, preschool teacher education is one of the most popular. That means that very many young qualified people want to become a preschool teacher, and I appreciate that very much. We also want to put forward a recruitment plan, because we want more people to be pre-school teachers. We see that there will be growth in the years to come. It'll most likely come before summer. In addition, let me stress it, because it is an important part of the whole, it is true that there has been a decline, especially in some cities, related to educational management and education. This means that it has been difficult, perhaps here in Akershus and in Oslo in particular, to get qualified personnel to take pedagogical management and management responsibilities. There are more exemptions than I appreciate. It is a responsibility we take with the municipalities to ensure that more people want to do this. We do this in a combination of several things, both continuing education, the admission to pre-school teacher education, of course, and the general focus we have on kindergarten development. Both in schools and in kindergartens, we have very high-quality pedagogical staff in Norway. I'm proud of that. I'm glad. But that doesn't mean we're satisfied with it. We're going to keep going towards even higher targets. That's why we spend a lot of money qualifying teachers and pre-school teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e386	I thank the Council of State for your answer. We can see that the government has not reached the goal of full kindergarten coverage and enough preschool teachers. The government has not reached the targets of more teachers and more resources in the school. A report from the Federation of Education shows that the part of the municipal budget that goes to school in the municipalities is at risk. Governments have long talked about a recruitment plan for pre-school teachers. He still hasn't come. When it comes to betting on a skill level for kindergarten, there's a decrease in the number of add-ons, even if we've added more, as we're going to have a lot more to work in kindergarten. My question is, how will the Council of State fulfill its promises? We can see that they are so far unfulfilled, and they don't seem to be this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e393	I'm a little unsure about the question. We have not promised full child care coverage until the end of this year. The definition is that all those who have applied for space will be accommodated in the course of the year. We cannot settle the status until the end of the year. We use a lot of resources to get full babysitting. I'm very happy about that. We're now in a hurry. Norwegian municipalities are doing a fantastic job. I am pleased that many municipalities can now honour the promise of kindergarten at an affordable price. As I said, I'm glad. So we have a lot of pressure on this from the Government, and I am happy that a lot of municipalities have also succeeded. Then it's true that we've given the municipalities a lot of money. It was necessary after four years of bourgeois rule, which actually fed the municipalities with hunger. The municipalities have received more than 20 billion kroner. Because there was a huge lag in so many sectors, there has not been enough money to go to school. That's right. I record that the municipal expenditure to the school is historically about what they have been. I'm not satisfied with that. We're going to have more money for teachers and more money for school from the general resources we're making available. That means that the municipalities have a year on them until the next spring. Then there are new numbers, and then I hope for a significant improvement. If we don't have to consider what to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e402	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e406	We hear from the representative Molvær Grimstad that we lack enormous numbers of pre-school teachers, and even more will be. It is a well-known fact that when a maximum price of step 2, i.e. a cheaper kindergarten, is introduced, it will also increase demand for kindergartens. We have a huge need for staff in kindergartens. The Progress Party has claimed that there are an incredible number of people without formal competence in kindergartens. Now we also hear that the Council of State says that 67 pst. of those who are leaders in kindergarten, are actually without pre-school teacher education. That means they have real competence. So we have a big and growing need for kindergarten staff. Then my question to the government council is, when does the maximum price come step 2, or an even cheaper kindergarten than the one we have today? Will the Council of State ensure that those without formal competence, who do a fantastic job in kindergartens, receive the recognition they deserve?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e415	I agree with a lot of the premises in the question. So we have 70,000 employees in Norwegian kindergartens, and they're doing a great job. Growing only this year has been in 4000 annual works in the nursery sector. But let me correct a misunderstanding: 33 pst. pre-school teachers are trained by kindergarten workers. That number has been stable over the years. This means that many new students with preschool education have arrived. But for managers and educational staff, we see that there has been a decline. That means that the vast majority of those who are leaders and rulers in kindergartens are educationally educated, but there were several exemptions last year, because fewer wanted to be a preschool teacher. Now we have an extensive commitment to pre-school teacher education. We've made several places of study available, and that's a good search. But it is quite right that we have an unused resource by allowing assistants and others who are in kindergarten without preschool education to receive retraining and additional training. That's what we're betting on. Both in the previous budget and in the current budget, funds have been made available to the higher education institutions for that type of education. We will come back with more of these measures, because it is an important and effective way to give adult women — to a large extent — the opportunity to learn and to be able to manage the kindergarten as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e422	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e425	As we now, hopefully, approach full child care coverage, the theme of quality in kindergarten will become more important and important. In the right, we're at least very concerned about how we're going to approach giving kindergarten the best content possible, primarily based on the demanding starting point, namely working on the individual development of the children. It's a demanding task. The Council of State has indicated that we have a competent staff working on this. It has also been said here that there is a need for significant reinforcement of this side. When we talk about quality in kindergarten, there might be a lot of things. When we dig into it a little bit, we see that research in this area is rather economical. There is no comprehensive research in Norway. Nor is it all the world to take away from abroad. My question is: does the Council of State feel that it is important to strengthen this part of the research? If so, what will he do to contribute to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e432	The answer is yes. We're doing this. It is quite right that over the years we have spent too little resources on kindergarten research — what is happening in kindergarten, and the relationship between educators and the smallest children. It is quite right that to be focused on what quality promotions are in kindergarten, we need more knowledge. That is why we are also doing this. Let me stress that on 1 August last year we introduced new framework plans for kindergartens. The framework plan is the tool that the kindergartens have so that they can facilitate learning. Kindergarten is a learning venue. Children are curious and shall have the opportunity to develop individually within the framework of kindergarten. I think it's amazing that we have framework plans in Norway that have philosophy, mathematics and language, which makes the least of them have something to stretch towards. There are hardly any more philosophic people in Norway than the very least. The fact that kindergarten facilitates that kind of wonder and development is very important. Let me stress that the quality of Norwegian kindergartens is high, but it's quite right what the representative Thommes points out, that over the years this has been too little research. That's why the government has taken control of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e441	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e444	I want to follow up on the problem that we do not have enough professionals, with a question to the Minister for Gender Equality, who is also responsible for child protection. We see that child protection is receiving very few concerns from the kindergarten. Few people have professional skills at work. Many of the weakest children are often offered a children's playground. Many of those who have the worst support from the family background are often offered children's playgrounds locally, in order to have the good offer a good nursery place with good professionals. There are so few messages about child protection, and so few people use the expertise in kindergarten to protect their children. I wonder if the council has any opinions about it, whether she intends to do anything, and whether she is also concerned that there are so few messages about child protection and so little contact between child protection and kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e453	Yes, it is worrying that no more cases are reported. We know that many of the children who come into contact with child protection in a slightly older version than when they go to kindergarten experience that they could have been helped earlier if the guidance from the kindergarten had been good. Therefore, it is important that the messages made by employees in the nursery are given – if they are concerned that a child does not receive the necessary care – and that it is notified. There is a need to provide a warning of concern for the protection of children. At the same time, it is also important that the police are informed of their concerns. Child protection receives more than 30 000 care messages every year, and today it is approx. 32,000 children under various forms of child protection. But we see a major challenge in the fact that more public aid agencies need to coordinate their efforts, including: school, kindergarten and health care. They need to be much more competent at coordinating efforts, so that we can provide the most vulnerable children with better help than they get today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e460	We move on to the next main question – Trine Skei Grande. Step Skei Grande goes to his place and fetches papers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e465	The President may draw the attention of all representatives to the possibility of asking questions without a manuscript.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e468	I always do, President! But now I had some important numbers and quotes, and I'd like that right. There is a broad consensus that the Government's research effort has been characterised as a break. The Minister of Knowledge has recently said in the newspapers that there is a widespread misunderstanding that it is a break. He describes it in the newspaper on 2 May as – that is why I had to quote – ‘a less cut in the appropriations for the university and higher education sectors’. Actually, the cut was probably 274 million. kr, and the adjective "less" as a definition of it, I think I'm a little bit strange. ‘Sleeve cutting’ can hardly be misunderstood. That means you don't put forth any effort. The Minister of Knowledge has not made so much effort to make room for research in his budget. It's e.g. no escalation in the case of recruitment positions. It is cut into well-thought-out tax FUNN schemes. There is no growth in the institute sector. It's quite far from all of the things that SV talked about nicely when they were in opposition. When we discussed the 2004 budgetary agreement, the Council of State, which was then a representative of the government, stated to NTB: ‘The government has no sky above it. It has nothing to stretch towards except to retain power. The result will be a lack of long-term long-term and high-lifting.» That's what the Council of State said when he was a representative. I am tempted to ask the Council of State about it now in the current government – lack of – research efforts may also lack some heaven and some long-term thinking. So my question to the Minister of Knowledge becomes about him, because it's a misunderstanding that this is a breakaway, can guarantee that you will come back with a strong and committed research effort in the next budget at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e487	The research appropriations under our government are larger than they were under the previous government. Over the course of this 1 year, we've spent NOK 2.4 billion more than it was before. We've increased the Research Fund by 24 billion dollars out of the 60 billion dollars that are now there. This means that research appropriations have gone up more than real growth and have been, as a percentage, higher than in all the budgets of the previous government, with the exception of one year, and that was the year when the government suffered defeat in the transfer of funds for research. Then it was the collapse opposition that divided the tipping surplus into two instead of three and added a significant number of billions to the Research Fund, and the return led to a good year for research. But the following year, it was 2.3 pst. cut in research under the previous government. I say this to show that research has had good budgets under our government, and it should still have. So it's true that the university sector had a cut of 1 pst. – a sector which receives approx. $20 billion on the state budget. The reason was that they had worked up over the year money that was unused in the account. All our institutions therefore had considerable unused funds. We have now been in close dialogue with each institution, and fortunately we see that more of the money has been used in bank accounts. This means that a relatively large amount has been spent this year – we are talking about hundreds of millions of dollars that have been in the bank account in Norway. Let me also point out in brackets that the Research Council has also had a significant unused reserve. It went from $1 billion last year to 1.5 billion this year. We have now, together with the Research Council, reviewed how we should use this money more quickly, because it takes some time to hire fellows and get the projects started. We've taken 200 million. of this amount granted for an exceptional lift for scientific equipment. Now it's 200 million. More on scientific equipment at our institutions, on the basis of unused reserves in the Research Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e498	I thank you for the answer, but I note that the Council of State's reality is diametrically opposed to that of those in the research and education community here in Norway. I also notice that the Council of State did not answer my question about the bet in the next budget. That's why I want to ask a question with a little bit longer horizon – about the sky that the Council of State called for by another budgetary settlement. The left has been very busy with this. We have committed ourselves to increasing the funding of the Research Fund to SEK 150 billion by 2010 – a sky that can be defined. Is there a goal that the Council of States can say is willing to join?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e505	The provision of funds to the Research Fund is a very appropriate way of stepping up research. Of the fund that currently amounts to DKK 60 billion, we have added 24 billion in a year and a half. Under the previous government, it was added a billion every now and then. We've taken two big jafs: 14 billion in the first budget and 10 billion in the budget we're now in. But 60 billion is not the roof of the Research Fund. How large this becomes during our period and in the future, each budget and each government will decide, but the Soria Moria Declaration states very clearly that the growth of research will take place through a combination of allocation and provision for the fund. As our government said, the fund's provision has been record-breaking – as many as 24 billion out of 60 billion. Therefore, it is not right that the representative actually suggested in his first question, that research has not had a particularly good budget under our government. On the contrary, they have had a good budget. But everyone, both us and the opposition, would certainly have had more money for all the purposes for which the Stortinge grants money, but that is no more money than the ones we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e510	There will be three follow-up questions – first Åse M. Schmidt.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e513	I think there's a lot of millions here that I haven't really found yet, but I'm not going to take it now. Other countries have marked increases in investment in research and development, and that is what Norway needs to measure up to. To take Sweden, they have too far achieved the objective of the Lisbon Agreement. This is not least because Sweden has large, heavy enterprises engaged in good research and solid public investment in universities and in basic research. In Norway, for example, the tax FUNN scheme has worked, but the red-green government has chosen to cut some of the criteria set. It is possible that the ceiling should be raised in order to increase the size of larger enterprises, in order to invest even more in research and development. Furthermore, we see that a quarter of the SkatteFUNN projects have been reduced following restrictions by the red-green government. Now I wonder if the Council of State sees that he has a job to do in research in raising Norway at an international level in the research and development environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e520	The ambitious target of 3 pst. of GDP, which is reflected in the Government’s declaration and which is also the aim of the Grand Duchy, is about 2 pst. on private enterprises and 1 pst. in the public domain. We have had a very strong growth in GDP in Norway during this period. This means that despite increasing research appropriations from the state, the percentage has been something of the same. But if we look at the growth in public budgets, compared with other countries, Norway is above the OECD average, and we are among the top public spending in pure crowns for research. Then I have a dialogue with business about how business is going to research more. I have invited Bergesen to the Government's Research Committee, and we have a comprehensive dialogue on how we can get on with it. Clearly, motivating enterprises for research is a challenge. If the companies themselves do not understand that they have a benefit from research, it is difficult for me to over-estimate the decisions made in the boardrooms. But everything is in place for the Norwegian business community to spend more money on research, and we have a government that supports this, is in dialogue with them and wants to facilitate proposals they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e527	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e530	I believe that a government council must be able to expect a minimum degree of backsliding. The Research Fund under the previous government has not been granted the «one billion and another billion now and then». If the Minister of Knowledge had not been able to cut DKK 25 billion of the planned increase in the fund, we could today have a research fund of DKK 75 billion. At the Swedish National Meeting in 2005, Øystein Djupedal said: ‘We must take the big step – a new government in which SV is involved must have doubled our research efforts in four years’ time.’ NIFU STEP has recently estimated that Norway will need to increase its public research appropriations by approx. DKK 2.5 billion a year towards 2010 to achieve the target of 3 pst. share of GDP in research. In the last two years, with the Council of State Djupedal at the rudder, the public share of the research effort has fallen, and my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State now blow off the self-declared cutting of research policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e540	Public research has increased under our government and will continue to increase. If one measures this as a percentage of GDP, it's about on the spot resting, as it was under the previous government. This is because we have an economy that is largely linked to an oil and energy price that has been high over a long period of time, and which means that the percentage will not grow relatively even if you have had a significant increase in appropriations. Under our government it has increased by 2.4 billion, and the fund has increased by 24 billion. The fund, when we took over the government, was 36 billion. That's 24 billion in addition. Under the previous government, in the budgets that were adopted here in Stortinget while you were sitting, a billion were proposed, with the exception of the year you changed the key. So it's true that the budget that was put forward after the government was going to go off had a bigger proposal, but it was a proposal that was made after you had actually not won the government power. In that way, this was more to regard as a fine than a real wish. If you had thought that the Research Fund would increase, you should have done something about it when you had the opportunity to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e547	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e550	The only person who does fines in this regard must be the Council of State itself. The previous Bondevik government presented an aged budget, a proposal that it was fully possible to take over and thus bring research efforts at a significantly higher level than the Djupedal Council of State made sure that it was subject to its revision of the budget. That's what's the truth, and I actually think that the Council of State could stand by to admit it. So the Council of State said that he has now found up to 200 million. extra for scholarship holders and scientific equipment, which has been fed under the original budget. My question is, will the Council of State contribute to any of this going to private colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e558	We have had an extensive dialogue with the Research Council on how to use the money that has been allocated and is currently unused. That's 200 million. NOK, and we believe they can be used in scientific equipment. The funds are allocated by the Research Council on application, and the Council of State will not decide which projects or institutions should be funded. But as far as I understand, nanotechnologies and medical devices will be the top priority. These are applications promoted to the Research Council. After this is advertised, I guess there will be more applications, but we are aware that there are already a significant number of applications in the Research Council that have come over the year – not only under our government, but also under previous governments – that have not been fulfilled. The Research Council will make the final allocation of the 200 million. kr. I would assume that among these applications may be applications from private colleges, but, as I said, I do not have the applications on my table. The Research Council will deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e563	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e566	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yesterday, Norway received a visit from the Iranian Minister for Foreign Affairs, Reception. The majority of Norwegian politicians clearly believe that dialogue with Iran, even while the country is heavily pushed by the UN, is quite natural. You have faith in your own ability to influence, and that's good. If the ongoing Norwegian dialogue with high-level representatives of the Iranian regime leads to a halt to the nuclear programme, respect for human rights and recognition of the State of Israel, yes, then it is we who do not want to talk to the leaders of Iran at the moment, who are wrong. If one is able to get movement on these crucial issues, I shall immediately admit that our strategy is flawed. But one thing is the Foreign Minister's meeting with his Iranian counterpart. Something quite different is that oil and energy minister Enoxsen also had a meeting with the Iranian Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not agree with me that the meeting between Enoxen and Recipienttaki will be perceived as wanting even greater commercial involvement in Iran, while the human rights situation remains hopeless, the position of women is getting worse and the regime is quietly ignoring the UN's demands? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that Iran meets the ethical guidelines Norway otherwise provides companies we use the money of the state to invest in?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e575	The Iranian Minister of Foreign Affairs came from Sweden to meet with a civil government, Norway to meet with a red-green government and Denmark to meet with a bourgeois government. And there are now preparations for new meetings between the United States and Iran. All countries believe in a combination of decisions in the Security Council, as Norway states 100 pst. back, and to convey the message clearly to Iran through political dialogue. If we believe that military instruments are not the way to go in relation to Iran, whether they are nuclear programs or other aspects of the regime that are very different from ours, the policy instruments are talking to people. I see no basis for deepening economic partnership between Norway and Iran, to which the Iranians invite, as long as there are roadblocks on that road in the form of violations of human rights, the death penalty for children, the restriction of the instruments of democracy, the position of women and the nuclear programme. So for the manufacture that Norway should do this alone. As the representative, Mr Höglund, says, if Norway does it alone, we will be given honor. We've never had ambition about it. So it's a representation of a kind of isolation that is not Norwegian line in any part of foreign policy. But we think that being able to use political pressure and show when you receive a visit, that there's a unified message coming back, is the way to go. The fact that the Minister of Oil and Energy meets Reception, I find it quite natural for the reason that there are two countries with strong energy interests, two strong energy producers. I believe that there is contact between them. There is no indication that Norway will escalate the investments managed by the State. Norwegian companies must make their decisions. They must comply with international laws, Norwegian laws and laws in the countries they operate today. We then know that the decisions of the UN Security Council also require Norwegian companies to read carefully – both in large print and in small print – what it imposes on them of responsibility. Of course, Norway is fully committed to getting behind it, because the Security Council is the most important expression the world community can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e586	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, and I am pleased for the clarification that there are no signs of stepping up our business engagement in Iran. Many years of dialogue with Iran seem, as we see it, not to have given any sort of results. I'd like to include it in a broader setting than just the Norwegian one. But we know that the country wants recognition and respect, and we think Norway goes far too far in giving such recognition and respect. The Iranian Minister of Foreign Affairs was personally expelled from Turkey when he was an ambassador. He was arrested for involvement in kidnapping and torture. He rejected yesterday's denial of Holocaust by Iran. Nevertheless, he was at a conference in Tehran last year that was just about this topic. Will not the Minister of Foreign Affairs take this opportunity to express disappointment at the statements and actions of Mr Gottaki and agree with us that the conduct of the Iranian Foreign Minister does not help to resolve our disagreements with Iran?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e595	The statement that Israel should be erased from the map is completely unacceptable, and has met a very clear Norwegian and international position. It was repeated by me as the first point yesterday. Then the Minister of Foreign Affairs receives it based on what he himself has said and done in previous contexts. He had another message yesterday in Oslo. If it is relative to what he has said earlier, I will not go into this, but the Norwegian position is quite clear. Has many years of dialogue with Iran resulted? That's a good question. A few years ago, we hoped for a change and for the political course, among other things. from then president, who comes to Oslo next week at the invitation of former Prime Minister Bondevik, would take another way. We should not underestimate the tensions within Iran. I believe the Iranian leadership and in many ways the opposition stands together on the nuclear ambitions and to get nuclear energy. But the Iranian President does not deliver on his main election promise, namely improved economic situation. So here are tensions in Iran. I am concerned that we are also keeping in touch with those parts of Iranian civil society that can help bring this into a new course. For it is, after all, a country that also has choices from time to time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e602	To give room for one more main question, follow-up questions are limited to two – first from Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e605	NTB reports from yesterday's meeting between Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre and his Iranian colleague, Recipient, that Iran takes no self-criticism in the area of human rights – he says on the contrary that the human rights situation in Iran is good. I see this statement as both deeply tragic and completely unrelenting for self-intelligence on behalf of my own country. Iran practices, including the Foreign Minister, widespread use of the death penalty, including public stoning and hanging and the death penalty for children. Furthermore, Tehran’s dictatorship uses a number of barbaric methods of punishment, and torture of oppositionals is quite common. Religious minorities also suffer greatly under the regime. How will the Foreign Minister balance Norwegian zeal – especially from our largest company, StatoilHydro, which is also state-owned – after investing in Iran with its disrespectful attitude towards human rights, as the Iranian Foreign Minister so clearly stated?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e610	With regard to the critical comments we have made on human rights around countries where it is necessary, I have never met anyone who has listened to it and then taken self-criticism. It is often characteristic of the type of country that they do not. But that's why it's very important that you have a very clear message and say very clearly from, and that you also mention the name in such meetings, which shows that you can also contribute to protecting them. With regard to the presence of Norwegian companies in Iran, I believe that this is a decision, in Norwegian tradition, which the companies themselves must assess. Now it has a very clear commercial dimension, and it's become a very clear political dimension, through the Security Council's decision, through the international image. Through dialogue with those companies, we pass on from the Norwegian authorities the clear message that Norway is following the decisions of the Security Council. What it says, companies must read and be able to interpret. And then we think we're going to be in the tradition that it's up to the companies to follow the laws of the country, the Norwegian laws and what are now international laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e617	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e620	Iran is a country that grossly violates human rights, not least religious minorities and converts, a country that has repeatedly declared that one of the few democracies in the Middle East, namely Israel, will be wiped out and a country that refuses to cooperate with the United Nations bodies. I met the Foreign Minister yesterday to present a crystal clear criticism in these areas. It became a strange experience, for the criticism when it came to human rights was met with a reference to the fact that Muslims in Norway are having a difficult time, and so are, among other things, Muslims in Norway. because they have to bathe in the same swimming pool, even though they are both boys and girls. The criticism of Israel was met with: Jammen Norway can now play a central role with its independent position in the Middle East, because we agree on a lot, even though we disagree on a number of other things. My question is: Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs in view of this convenience of being a partner with Iran in the Middle East issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e626	I allow myself to say that the representative Højbräten should know better than to say that we are a ‘cooperating partner with Iran’ in the Middle East. It's never come from this government, it's never been the government's policy, and I think this big thing knows very well. That doesn't mean that all Iran says about assessments of the Middle East situation is wrong initially because it's a regime we're not dealing with. It's actually analyses from the Arab countries, the countries around the Gulf, around the historical conditions in the Middle East it's worth listening to. That is why it is also important to have dialogue with them. I have, as I say, been completely crystal clear of the relationship with Israel, with regard to Iran's demands in relation to the reinforcement of Hezbollah, and the role they have played with Hamas. Otherwise, I believe that Norway's attitude towards what is happening in the Middle East gives us an opportunity to convey that message with even greater weight to countries like Iran. But some cooperation partners in the Middle East are not Iran, and it does not seem that it is in a position to do so either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e631	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e634	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. There seems to be a rather broad consensus on Stortinget that it is important to extend the hours of childhood. It was proposed to significantly extend the number of hours during the previous government period, it was also adopted, and further extensions have now been proposed. The central association of municipalities has estimated that 4 000 to 5 000 new years of teaching are needed if you are to have an extension of the hour to 28 hours of the week. Then there is reason to be concerned about evolution. We have a dramatically decreasing recruitment to general teacher training. First, fresh numbers from the Coordinate Recording show that it's 17 pst. decrease in the search from last year to this year, that is to say it is approximately. 3 100 students who will start in general teacher training now in the autumn. Secondly, the average decline in general teacher education is greater than that of any other education, approx. 27 pst. Every fifth student falls from already in the first year of study. So that means that a lot of the 3,100 students starting in the fall are going to fall from either the first year or during the study. In addition, we now see the results, at least the initial results, of the cuts made by the Government in relation to higher education and research, especially higher education. In the course of general teacher training in Stavanger, the subject is now cut, among other things. food and health and music, because the university cannot afford to maintain those subjects. These are figures that raise concern, and we are very concerned that there is a lack of consistency between the promises made and the objectives that you have, and the plan and the idea of recruiting and empowering teachers. In addition, earlier in the Questionnaire, we have become aware of the great need now to recruit pre-school teachers to kindergartens. In response to the question of recruitment, the Council of State says that there is no reason for great concern that we should lack teachers in the years to come. My question is, will the Council of State reconsider its lack of concern as we now see the figures we are doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e641	Fortunately, there is still a considerable review of the teaching profession, and that means that it has been possible to get qualified candidates into teacher training as far as possible. But I'm also worried that there are fewer people who want to become teachers, and we need to focus more on how we make sure to get back to the status of the teaching profession. The evaluation of teacher training that came in the autumn, led by Professor Hansén of the Turku Academy, shows very clearly that we have 22 institutions in Norway that are largely the same, which provide the same education, and which are also pointed out, have considerable weaknesses. We have now started a comprehensive review of general teacher training in order to return to the status of the teaching profession. And then we're constantly assessing whether we need even more places to study. We increased the number of places of study by 500 last year, which has continued this year. So that means that there's 500 more now than under the previous government. If it turns out to be necessary to have even more teaching places, we'll of course set it up, but one of the most important things, which the representative is quite right about, is to make sure that those who are admitted remain in the study. Clearly, it is alarming when the Oslo High School has a disqualification of 33 p.m. nor can the college explain where these have gone. This is an institutional responsibility, and it is very clear from NOKUT's evaluation of teacher training that the management of teacher training institutions has been too weak and unclear. We have now instructed all teacher training institutions to report to us how they follow up on the evaluation of NOKUT. We got that report for each institution on 1 March. We are now very clear to the institutions that they need to take better care of the students. It is clear that such a refusal as the representative is talking about, in this order of magnitude, is totally unacceptable. This means that the students don't get what they want, but of course the institutions also lose money, financially, because they don't get the students into the study. But we are in close dialogue with the institutions. I personally have committed myself closely to this, and if there is a need for new measures, we are ready for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e648	I thank you for your answer. I am still quite concerned about the trend we see, and the Council of State is concerned about the status of the teaching profession. Now we've had this NOCUT report since September 22nd last year, and it was already outlined that it should really be taken care of, now it should be a national promise. But for the time being, we haven't seen so much about it from the government. I just want to ask a specific question to the Council of State. It has been discussed and discussed in the report whether it might be necessary to raise the admission requirements in general teacher training in order to increase the status of the teaching profession. It's a point of view that the Right has had, and that the Right has repeated at its country meeting this weekend. Is that a requirement that the Council of State can agree to?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e657	In a whole series of fields, we are now strengthening general teacher training, but we have chosen to do it step by step rather than as a major, comprehensive reform. The dialogue we have with the colleges is very important, for more than 120 of the 129 demands in Hansén's report, it's the institution's own responsibility to follow up. Following institutions closely is one of the best things we can do to get better results. Then we also assess how we can change the admission criteria for general teacher training. It's clear that it's possible to imagine changing it, related to grades. But maybe an idea as good as we have now launched to the institutions is an interview. We see that in Finland, the country that is still the best recruiter for teacher training, the last selection is made by qualified candidates during an interview. We now strongly encourage our institutions, when they have several qualified candidates, to go into an interview with the candidate and say, What can you contribute? Why do you want to be a teacher? What motivation do you have? What plan do you have for that? It will contribute to a status increase. But let me say that the process we are now involved in, also does not have an easy answer, so this is a dialogue we have on an ongoing basis, also with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e664	There will be follow-up questions – first Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e667	It's been about ten years since the last time a recruitment plan was discussed for teachers in the Norwegian metropolitan area. That was when the then State Council Lilletun presented the big message towards richer goals. We now see that we are facing a generational shift in the teaching class. The problem is that those to take over are missing. In some disciplines and in some parts of the country, the problem actually begins to be insensitive. What will the Council of State actually do to get the competent students to apply for teacher training? And what concrete steps will the Council of State take to ensure that the teaching profession is able to gain good status and that the teacher is able to emerge again with the necessary authority and professional weight, so that he or she appears to be a clearly growing role model capable of disseminating knowledge, and that the teacher's competence and dissemination capacity are valued? Do the councils have a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e676	Yes, we have a plan, in the sense that we do a lot of different things that raise the status of the teaching profession. Only this interview, which I have just mentioned, is one of the things we do. We need to ensure that there is more differentiation in teacher training, more focus on the subject and more focus on the step. The fact that the general teacher is a teacher who can teach in all ten steps of the school in all subjects, we now have to phase out. We need more quality and more knowledge specializing in individual subjects and steps. This will raise the status. Then, of course, in the dialogue with the institutions, we will also ensure that they market themselves – that teacher training markets itself as exciting and interesting. After all, teaching is one of the most important professions in a society. Therefore, it is important to have national measures that preserve the status around it. I now spend a lot of time with the institutions on how to improve teacher education, because that's the key to making the school better. I would like to accept suggestions so that we can do things even better, but let me just say so far that we have to raise the status of the teaching profession, I agree. How we do it is a more demanding process, but I would like to invite the opposition to join this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e683	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e686	I am very happy about that invitation, because the Left has presented a whole package in our teacher recruitment plan with suggestions on what can be done to recruit teachers, to increase the status of the teaching profession and to increase the competence of teachers. It's something that's a lot wider than what the government council's talking about, the one with the interview. So my question to the Council of State is: is he willing to look at all the proposals that the Left has made, and willing to make sure that there is a majority in this Chamber for all the Left's proposals in the teacher recruitment plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e694	I constantly read with interest the opposition's proposals – proposals they make at both national meetings and here in Stortinget. I've said it before: it's not like a government has all the knowledge and all the answers that it's possible to give. I am concerned with a pure dialogue with the Stortinge about how to raise the status of the teaching profession, and how to make it more attractive for young people to become teachers. And we're on -- let me say that. We have close and comprehensive meetings with students, educational institutions, teacher organisations, National Council for Teacher Education and the UH sector. All of these I have personally participated in meetings with as to how we should be able to move forward. Because I think the opposition and government objectives are very clear: we want more and more skilled teachers. Several young people enter the teaching profession. However, there is not a single measure that is sufficient; it is a whole set of measures. That is what our government is doing, but we are, of course, listening with interest and looking forward to what the opposition has to say about new and better actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e699	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e705	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the local and regional minister, is raised by the representative Bent Höie. Question 3, from the representative, André N. Skkelstad, to the Minister for the Environment, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 15, from the representative Anders Anundsen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs who is directing the matter. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered before question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e726	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: «In new law on real estate brokerage, rules on the revocation of brokerage letters are continued when brokers are illiquid. When the rule was introduced, most brokers were individual enterprises and less AS. Now the vast majority of those in employment are expected to increase as a result of new qualifications. Merchants are remunerated for commissions and have a vulnerable private economy in the event of market decline. Does the Council of State consider that developments warrant a review of the rules on withdrawal, so that the professional qualifications are decisive?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e735	In new Real Estate Act § 4-2 first paragraph no. 5, adopted at Odelstinget on 26 April 2007, the holder is required to be able to fulfil his obligations as they fall due. This requirement is based on the fact that economic vulnerability may pose a threat to the mediator’s independence as an intermediary. It's, as you know, an important part of the real estate agent's function. In the new law, the Credit Authority has been given access to recall of real estate agents’ letters, among other things. when the conditions for the award of the letter are no longer fulfilled. This is an embellishment in relation to the applicable law, which says that if the conditions are no longer met, the Credit Authority will revoke the letter. In other words, credit supervision is proposed to settle issues relating to the withdrawal of real estate letters on the basis of a concrete and discretionary overall assessment. In such an overall assessment, the elements referred to in the question could also be relevant. In my opinion, therefore, the concerns of the fleet representative in this matter have been met in relation to what has now happened in this field, by replacing ‘access’ with ‘access’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e750	Yeah, I see that they might be a little bit on the way. But can the finance minister imagine giving further signals, beyond this, because the transition from the relatively rigid provision we had to a perhaps softer one still seems difficult in the industry? I think we are faced with a situation where this with the competence of the brokers, and that they have professional qualifications, will be the most important thing. In my opinion, this with their independence from the economy is perhaps a much, much smaller question than it was before. So I repeat to the extent of the question: can the Minister of Finance think of signaling either here or to the Credit Authority, for example. by proposing regulations that elaborate on this and make it a little easier for the brokers to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e759	Now this law has recently been passed by the Storting, and what it implies is an embellishment of this very provision. Among other things, it is related to: together with the fleet, that it raises the status and requirements of the brokers in the future, so that we have a different type of instrument to ensure the quality of the services to be provided. That is the balance that the credit supervision is about to make. I would suggest that the representative fleet, and to the extent that the industry, follow up on how this will be handled in the future, because there is a significant signal in the change that has now been made in relation to an embellishment. I think that's enough at the moment, and then we'll see how practice balances these considerations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e766	I choose – not usually, but relatively often – to interpret the Council of States positively, especially in this important context, where on the one hand we have the economy and on the other hand the human situation has contrasted. As I interpret the Council of States, rather she against the fact that the latter will be the most important thing. It will also correspond excellently with the social view of the Socialist Left Party. I really hope that she follows it up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e771	What I've said is that now there's an opportunity for a balance and a judgement in relation to these two ways of ensuring that the services that are being performed are precisely in keeping with the independence of the real estate agents. I believe that what we must now focus on is that practices will be able to balance the two considerations in the future. And if the Fleet is not satisfied with practice, I am absolutely convinced that he will come back to it in a later Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e776	Let's go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e783	This question, from the representative of Anders Anundsen to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e786	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘It is important that municipalities use resources in schools. In this context, the Council of State stated on 7 March 2007 in an oral Question Time: ‘After the government took over Stoltenberg, we have transferred approx. 18 billion new kroner for the municipal sector. This was said as a reason why it can be claimed that the school is being allocated more money now than before. Could the Council explain how it appears that transfers from the State to the local government sector have increased by 18 billion? kr since Stoltenberg II took over the government?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e795	In the revised 2006 national budget, the real growth of the total income of the municipal sector from 2005 to 2006 was estimated at DKK 7.1 billion. On presentation of St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 for 2006-2007, the real growth in total municipal income in 2007 was estimated at DKK 6.6 billion. The growth was calculated here in relation to the estimated level of revenue for 2006 in the revised 2006 national budget. The tax revenue of the municipal sector in 2006 developed significantly stronger than estimated in the revised national budget for 2006. In St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 for 2006-2007, the real income growth from 2005 to 2006 was estimated at DKK 11.6 billion, i.e. DKK 4.5 billion higher than the 2006 revised national budget. The figure of DKK 18 billion is derived from the fact that the adjusted revenue growth for 2006, i.e. DKK 4.5 billion, has been added to the 2006 estimate of growth in the revised national budget for 2006, which was SEK 7.1 billion, and the 2007 estimate of growth in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 for 2006-2007, which was NOK 6.6 billion. This can be summed up, as you understand, at NOK 18 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e804	I recognized some of the figures that the Council of State now came up with, from an answer that the Minister of Finance has given to question No. 847, from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. It also says: ‘It follows that the real income growth estimate from 2005 to 2006 is 12.0 billion. EUR 2007-kr, measured in relation to the 2005 accounts. The real income growth from 2006 to 2007 is SEK 0.9 billion. 2007-kr, measured in relation to the 2006 estimates. From 2005 to 2007, the total real growth will be 12.9 billion. 2007-DKK.’ I understand that the government is busy using computational methods that make it appear that the transfers from the state to the municipalities are much higher now than they were under the previous government, but it's important that you don't confuse people most with many different numbers. After all, that's all the real money you live on. Does the Council agree that the real growth of the local government sector as a whole from 2005 to 2007 amounts to SEK 12.9 billion in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e814	I fully agree that we should never contribute to creating confusion in neither our sea nor our choice. The representative is busy with real money, as they say. The real money that the local government sector has to go with is the growth of $12.9 billion. In addition, there are, in real terms, extraordinary tax revenues for 2006 calculated at NOK 6.6 billion, so that the total that municipalities have to travel with, no matter how you turn around and turn on it, is actually close to NOK 19 billion. It's true that the level is raised by $12.9 billion, but in addition the tax revenue is added.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e821	To further contribute to the confusion, several government councils have begun using a different figure, namely NOK 24.9 billion. It's a challenge to imagine that a government spends so much time bringing forth its excellence without telling what is the reality. That is why I am concerned that the Council of State is clarifying in the Grand Duchy today that the Government will do its utmost to ensure that the figures coming out take into account what is this government's transfer to the municipalities, which gives real growth to the local government sector, and does not mix nominal figures. After all, it's not the money you have in your wallet you live on. That's what that money does to buy. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e826	The community structure is complicated, and it is possible to create great confusion in relation to these figures depending on the starting point for the calculations. As a municipal minister, I'm busy presenting a clean picture to people. I'm concerned that we're not going to say things so that it seems like we're doing more than what we're doing, or saying things so that it seems like we're doing less than what we're doing. It is obvious in my interest as a municipal minister to contribute to giving the best possible impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e831	We go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e838	This question, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the municipal and regional minister, will be raised by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e841	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «In Technical Weekly of 23 March we could read that experts fear that sports halls may be fatal. It is pointed out that several halls are too poorly dimensioned for large snow masses, and that mowing in addition can cause roof constructions to collide. We need to make sure that our sports halls are safe for both children and adults. Has the Council considered whether there is a need for specific control to ensure that the gymnasiums meet good enough building standards?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e855	It is important that sports halls and other public buildings are properly built and maintained. I'm concerned that people should be safe in all kinds of construction, including gymnasiums. We need to use more instruments in this important work. We – the Ministry in this context – have just sent letters to owners of halls in Norway to remind them of their responsibility for ensuring personal safety. The letter has also been sent to all municipalities and county municipalities. It is important that the municipalities also follow up their responsibilities, both as a hall owner and as a building authority. The supervision of municipalities is carried out primarily where new buildings are being built and when refurbished. Municipalities shall supervise compliance with the legislation and during the year the State Building Council will issue a thematic guide as a tool for the exercise of supervision. It is the owner who has the daily responsibility for ensuring the safety of a sports hall. This implies responsibility for ensuring that safety is satisfactory, examining safety where there is doubt, and ensuring that the necessary measures are implemented where safety is not good enough. Under the Planning and Building Act, the owner has a responsibility to ensure that danger or significant disadvantage does not arise for persons or property. If the municipality discovers that the maintenance of halls, including snow-moving, is neglected, the municipality is encouraged to give the necessary instructions to prevent or remedy dangerous conditions. In order to increase personal safety in sports halls and other public buildings, and to ensure compliance, I believe it is necessary to assess the introduction of stricter control procedures for construction where accidents will have major consequences. In the work on new planning and building laws, the introduction of mandatory independent control is considered in cases where, for example: safety is particularly critical. From the industry, there is a greater willingness now than before to consider more independent control as a real tool. I do not overlook the conclusion in the Ministry's legal work that independent control becomes the general rule of construction measures of major social importance. It is also important that the law obliges municipalities to supervise construction measures where errors will have a major impact on health, the environment and safety. Good control procedures are important to verify the final quality of the building. However, quality is achieved primarily through what they do as projects and carry out work on, for example: a gym. Supervision and the possibility of independent control will be of the most effective and sought-after public instruments in order to ensure optimal enforcement and minimum regulatory circumvention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e870	I thank you for your answer. I think it is positive that the new Planning and Building Act assesses new control options with the construction of new buildings. However, this also applies to a large extent to construction which was listed in the 1970s under a different legislation from that currently in place and which will not be covered by this new legislation, if any. As early as 2003, the State’s construction office sent letters to the municipalities of the country requesting an additional follow-up to these halls. But the assistant director of the state's construction office, Gustav Pillgram Larsen, says to Technische Ukeblad: "I cannot say we are confident that this has been followed up." Does the Council feel secure that the letters that have repeatedly been sent are being properly followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e882	It is important that we keep our eyes fixed firmly on who is responsible. It's hallei. I believe it is important that we do not do anything that could cause the hall owners to believe that they have been relieved of any responsibility. What we have to do is keep the pressure on this up continuously, so that the hall owners are conscious of their responsibilities. It's true, as the representative says, when we get to a new building part, when we're probably getting a new building control in place, we're going to be in a slightly different situation. I also stress that, in relation to existing buildings, we can already become more stringent through the new building part of the Law on Planning and Building in view of the local authorities' responsibility for supervision. That's one of the things we're doing right now: how we're gonna tighten up the local authorities' supervisory responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e887	Some of these halls are, as I said, listed under a different code than today. We also see that changes in the climate and weather cause the halls to be subjected to other types of stress today than when they were listed. Would it be appropriate to impose demolition or reinforcement of the existing halls if weaknesses were discovered? Who, if any, will cost that type of change? Today, these halls are mainly owned by municipalities or by voluntary teams and organisations. Will any concrete action be taken to identify whether there are today the types of halls that do not comply with today's legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e894	When we look and often underline the responsibility of the hall owner, it is precisely because we are going to help them to check that the hall is in good condition at all times. Then we also communicate with municipalities and, in some cases, with county municipalities, which have some halls, and ask them to follow up on their side. So with the system we have for follow-up, everyone has to feel safe in Norwegian halls. I stress again that we are following this continuously, and that in the new building part of the Law on Planning and Building, further responsibility will be attached to the municipalities when they follow up existing construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e910	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e917	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Council of State has announced a stronger protection for urban parcels through its own law on land. At the same time, the Ministry of Transport has launched an investigation into the possible trajectory of new E18 through southern parts of Oslomarka, the so-called ‘Ski East’ option. Could the Council of State promise that as part of its efforts to strengthen the protection of the land, she will stop the investigation of the ‘Ski East’ option, so that users of this part of Oslomarka can be absolutely sure that a new 4-field motorway through this area is completely out of date?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e926	I am aware that the transport authorities will have a broader review of alternatives for the new E18 on the Winter Bridge-Eastfold border and that the so-called Ski East option will be included in the work. The work will be carried out within the framework of the external quality assurance system for State investment projects of more than 500 million. kr – also called KS1. In this process, the transport authorities have decided that further planning and investigation work under the Planning and Building Act will be stopped until the KS1 work is completed. If the transport authorities subsequently want the ‘Ski East’ option to be included in the further planning and investigation process under the Planning and Building Act, the work programme must be amended. In presenting the programme to the Ministry of the Environment, I would like to make a concrete assessment of whether the option should be continued. I will make this assessment, among other things. in the light of the notified national policy provisions for Oslomarka, the work of a separate Marka Act and the consideration of soil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e935	I thank you for your answer. This case has created great local commitment, and for good reason. Südmarka means extremely much to many Follo residents, and they have, of course, brought with them the clear environmental obligations of both the Soria Moria Declaration, the new Marka Act that has been notified, and the outdoor communication. State Council Navarsete's justification for the investigation has been that all stones must be turned, despite the original rejection from the State Road Service. Questions have been raised during the proceedings and related relationships. I won't go into that. But I, and the Right, expect SV to cut through this matter – not least they might win back some of the 20 pst. of voters who seem to have moved to the Working Party. I will clarify the question in case it appeared unclear: will the Council of State in any way engage and contribute to the closure of the investigation of «Ski East»? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e944	I would like to stress that the KS1 process neither overrides nor replaces the subsequent concrete treatment of this road project under the Planning and Building Act. I would also like to stress that the work that is now under way with the new Marka Act means that great emphasis will have to be placed on the Marka interests in the further handling of the case. So this process that is currently in progress is a process that has been set in motion by the transport authorities. It is a work that, if necessary, will come to my table, and I will subsequently make assessments of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e949	I note that the Council of State is not willing to give any guarantee, nor any declaration of intent in relation to its work in government. That's all right. This is a significant environmental issue for an entire region. Finally, I'm just going to encourage the Council of States to use the involvement that is. She must not be afraid that any others put her in place, she must stand for her sincere environmental exposure completely into the government offices and not let go of the pill on her nose, for example. in relation to what the Prime Minister did on a previous occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e956	The President would point out that ‘pilling on the nose’ is hardly suitable for consideration in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e959	I can assure you that in this case, as in other matters, environmental considerations are taken very seriously – and it is high on the agenda of the Government's work. It is clear that the assessment to be made here, if any, will involve the notified national policy provision for Oslomarka and the consideration of soil protection. The fact that we work with our own Marka law will also be of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e968	‘1. Last May, the Prime Minister promised to set the ground for the gas power plant at Forest. To Trønder-Avisa on 17 January 2006, the Council of State confirmed that Mid-Norway is heading towards a serious power crisis and said that new development plans have to be put on the table very quickly. In spite of this, no major power project has been launched in the region. What has the Government done specifically to speed up large-scale power projects, and when can it be expected that the power situation in the region can again be described as ‘good’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e975	The government takes seriously the vulnerability of the Norwegian power supply and has been active in facilitating new power generation ever since the accession. Work has been done significantly during this period. Several concessions have been granted for both gas power and hydropower projects. In addition, the Government has set up a fund of DKK 20 billion to strengthen the investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency. In central Norway, the Government’s plan to strengthen the power situation in the region is based on measures for increased transmission capacity, increased investment in energy conversion and new production, and other measures to ensure security of supply in central Norway. Several major network investments, specifically linked to the expansion of Norsk Hydro’s aluminiumworks on Sunndalsøra and the Worm Lange extension, have been carried out. Furthermore, it is invested in voltage support in the network that will improve the transmission capacity in and into the 2007 region. Statnet has also decided to invest in increased transmission capacity between Central Norway and Sweden. This shall be in place from the autumn of 2009. In addition, the State network has submitted a concession application for new transmission links between Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romsdal to NVE. An important element of the action plan is measures to facilitate different types of new power generation. The renewable electricity aid scheme through Enova for the realisation of wind, water and biofuels projects in the area is initiated. At the same time, NVE strengthens the procedural capacity and prioritises concession applications for hydroelectric and wind power projects in Central Norway. Furthermore, the NVE has a strong focus on the effective concession treatment of generation and transfer facilities in this region. Plans for several gas power projects have been presented. The government is working to optimise the conditions for the realisation of new gas power projects with CO2 management. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is in dialogue with the current builders of gas power plants, including Industrikraft Mid-Norway, and efforts are being made to find a solution as quickly as possible. Significant efforts have been made to put in place measures to improve the power situation in central Norway during the last year. We are following developments closely, and we will keep as rapid progress as possible in implementing the planned actions in the Middle Norway Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e993	This was, I guess, an answer that was expected. One speaks of the network in central Norway as a conflict-torn project. We took that up in the Storting yesterday. However, many of these measures have been planned for a long time. My question was what the government has done to speed up the power project. Plans and dialogues I don't doubt that it is, but it doesn't give any more power to the house and industry. So the question is, what's the rush? Yes, the Council of State mentions the "Tjeldbergodden". They've got a concession. But have they received an emission permit? Without an emission permit, the concession is not worth one penny. Has the State Council done anything to speed up the gas power plant in Forest? The concession is there, it's all clear, but has he done anything to accelerate an investment there? The same applies to Industrial Power Moors. Have they received a concession at all yet? There's a lot of projects now that didn't exist before, which means that you're going to be able to realize a power project now, which wasn't possible before. The specific question is: what has been done to accelerate solutions to these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1002	I believe, as far as there is no point in repeating the answer I first gave, in relation to the considerable work that has been done. It is true that a number of these projects are in conflict. Energy production and energy transmission are conflict-affected, and this also means that the proceedings, and the concessional treatment of these kinds of cases, often take time. There are a lot of instances that need to be heard. There is the situation in relation to new concessions for the production of energy, and there is also the situation for transmission links. This is why, for example, the transmission link between Sogn and Fjordane and Morene and Romsdal will take time and can be in place at the earliest in 2011/2012. With regard to the Tent Credit, the representative knows very well that Statoil and Shell are now working on a completely different project than the original one, and that we therefore have no case to deal with – until they have concluded whether the value chain project on the Tent Credit will be realised in the form they want. The old project is no longer current. [[The President clubs.]] [[President clubs]] In the case of the other projects, e.g.: Industriekraft Møres project, the application will be dealt with as quickly as possible. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1013	The President will point out that when the lamp goes out, there is a strong indication that the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1016	Oh, that's what that means!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1024	I was afraid it meant that it is empty for electricity also in Oslo. It's a saying: Don't tell me how much you work, tell me what you're getting done. I think that's a little bit of what the government is doing in central Norway, too. In his first answer, the Council of State boasted that the Tent Goods were granted concession. In his subsequent reply he said that the project is no longer relevant, because it has been changed. Industrial Power Møre applied for a concession last year. One has had a long time on it – if it is really desirable to build a gas power plant to save the power situation. Industrial power Morene says that we get a concession, we can start construction and at least have half a gas power plant up and go in 2008. Every month that goes, means that one also postpones such investment decisions. One might talk about an additional measure — one may talk about many such ones — but the Council of State itself emphasised in the Trender-Avisa a year and a half ago that it is the major projects that need to be put in place to save the situation. And the net investments that Statnet decided on in the last magnification period, it still takes time to get in place. Again, the question is: for example: Industrial Power More, what has the Government done to speed up the processing of their application so that they can invest as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1035	As I said in my first answer, we have asked the NVE first of all to give priority to concession applications from this area – including the application from Industriekraft Møre, so that it can be treated as quickly as possible. So, as I've also said, there are certain procedures that have to be applied. It makes this take time, but we're going to make it as fast as possible. Then I've seen through what I said in my first answer. I did not mention the concession for the Tent Goods in my first answer – the representative can read it afterwards, in the minutes. As I said, we aim to help solve this situation as quickly as possible. There will be no gas power plant projects that can be up and running in 2008. Therefore, we have had to take the step of letting Statnett invest in reserve power capacity in this area. The minimum construction time from ordering is likely to be 36 months – and then it is not known in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1048	I just want to say that it has been a long time since the question was sent. There have been some changes in the cost of action, but I would nevertheless like to address the question as it was originally asked: ‘More than one of the bypasses to replace the E18 in Westfold in the summer is in such a constitution that it will create traffic chaos. Steps must be taken to upgrade/safe roads and take account of environmental impacts. Calculations indicate that it will cost 200 million. In addition, there will be a high cost of upgrading the roads in order to ensure safe traffic management during the summer. What will the Council of State now do to ensure traffic diversion through Westfold in the summer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1057	As the representative of Hoksrud refers to, the closure of the E18 in Westfold has brought with it problems for the traffic development through the county. Return of traffic to old E18, i.e. rv. 313 have increased the risk of accidents, caused disadvantages to the neighbours of the road and led to road users spending more time on the journey. To address these disadvantages, a wide range of measures have been taken. Increases in liabilities, including: change of speed limit in order to optimise traffic flow, enhance signage, asphaltisation of some sections and new road markings. In addition, additional control is inserted, which is indicated by signs, and the school pillow system is extended. I would also like to mention that, at the request of the collective societies, collective fields will be established by the narrowing of Bergsenga. New measures will be considered continuously as long as the exceptional situation persists. It's made maps, etc. – which is used by the police and by the Road Traffic Agency – over Rv. 313 and the other routes in the northern state, so that one can make the best possible use of alternative routes through good signs along the road. There are also continuous observations of queues in traffic during weekends, with a view to entering traffic on ‘free capacity’ re-routing routes. After the bidding round in connection with the hedged work, it is clear that one race of E18 could be opened on 6 July. With it, the traffic will wait for rv. 313 and other reversion routes are largely back to normal, and the quality of traffic diversion through Westfold should then be acceptable. Of course, road traffic controllers will also follow this situation closely. Good information on the timeliness of traffic management shall be ensured so that road users are able to adapt their travel time and route. A queue is used by the Road Traffic Centre in the notification work. Two large boards are located at Sem and Larvik to guide traffic on the best possible bypass. The information is also available on the Vegvesen website.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1070	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good to see that something is happening, but I have also asked the Council of State about the bypasses, etc. 32 and Rv. 40, 40, The Council of State has been clear and clear that she does not want to initiate further measures now, but that one should constantly look at this. But all the feedback from those who live along these roads is that these are roads where there is already a lot of traffic, and that the increased traffic that the closure of the Hanekeliv tunnel has caused has further aggravated their situation. They now experience an unsustainable situation. My question is: does the council talk about some of the other bypasses, but does she not see that it is also important to address the problems of those who live along these roads? Although one race will be opened on 6 July, it does not necessarily mean that there will still be an increase in traffic on the bypasses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1079	I was in Vestfold – in Holmestrand – 30 April and had a meeting with both municipalities, county councils and county councils. The pavement was present. I also had a meeting with the community. It was very useful. I felt that one is locally satisfied with the dialogue you have with the State Road Administration. One said that at least one was being heard by the State Road Administration, and that the work in the priority areas was being carried out. So it's always the way one would have liked to have done even more – and never be good enough – but the situation that we've had so far is to live with for the inhabitants along this route. Now we're getting a good deal out in May. There's still a month and a half left with this situation, but when we get to July 6th, the situation will at least normalize in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1088	I have a few questions. I hear the Council of State has been in Westfold, and that's very good, because that's to the extent that the shoe really presses. At least one municipality in Telemark, perhaps two, is particularly affected by this. I have registered that both the County Committee of Telemark and KS in Telemark have given clear feedback that something must also happen on Rv. 32 and Rv. 40, which I feel the Council of State does not see the need to do anything about, because she believes that there is so little time left until the situation normalizes. I'm actually not sure you've gotten rid of these challenges when only one of the races is opened. I can imagine asking the Council of State specifically what she wants to do with these sections. How much is now set, for example. for asphaltification and other measures, and what will be done in the future? I register when I'm driving on the road, that things are happening, but how much is set by total to make sure that something is done about the unsustainable situation that is still there, and that will still be there for a few more months?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1097	Since the beginning of January, I have told Stortinget that I want to come back in the additional proposition that will be made in parallel with the revised national budget, with an overview of the Hanekeliv tunnel and adjacent tunnels. Of course, it also covers the economic side. So I don't want to go into it today. It is not a good idea to answer questions that should be put to the Storing in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1107	‘In the context of the news that a further 6 tunnels at E18 in Westfold have to be closed in order to carry out the necessary protective work, it also appears that road tunnel maintenance is extensive throughout the country. It's estimated that over two billion. kr must be provided to repair emergency telephones, lighting and ventilation systems and poor road surfaces. On the national road network it is approx. 800 tunnels. What will the Council of State do to ensure that road tunnels in Norway are not only racist but also operationally safe?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1114	In a report from the State Road Administration of February 2003, the total national road lag is estimated to be 14 billion kroner per year. 1 January 2007. This is an aftertaste that has been worked out for many years under different governments. The tunnel's part of this is estimated at approximately 2 billion kroner. The government has increased its efforts for highway maintenance, but such a slowdown will necessarily have to take place again over several years. This is a question that will be addressed carefully in the National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019. That's now 170 million. kr per. years to upgrade the tunnels by renewing old and out-of-date equipment. In addition, annual operational and maintenance efforts will be made. Within all operations and maintenance, the State Road Service prioritises the tasks that have a direct impact on security. In the case of tunnels, this means that the necessary measures to ensure that traffic can be safely unloaded will be implemented. It also includes the installations mentioned in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1125	Thanks for the answer. It has been known for a long time that there is a large maintenance kit on Norwegian roads, a total of approx. $45 billion. The number to which the State Council refers for the national road network, i.e. $14 billion, has also been known. But it has been less known how much of the maintenance run on the national road network actually relates to the road tunnels, where they are in a rather special situation. What is the plan of the Council of State to cover the aftermath? I am not asking for any leakage from the revised budget or from the budget for next year, but for signals as to whether one will look at the possibility of getting programs to clean up the delays in the maintenance of the road tunnels, where the road users are in a special situation. They're in a tunnel, and it's a very special situation that initially creates insecurity when we have a race protection problem. Now we have an additional problem, a lack of maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1134	I can mention that several years ago the State Road Service used an own computer system to keep track of the tasks to be performed in connection with the technical safety equipment in the tunnels. The system also provides documentation on whether or not the tasks have been performed. I have confidence, as I said in my main response, that a priority is security, and that one first does the tasks that need to be done to keep the safety of our entire comprehensive tunnel system up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1144	To VG 12 April this year, development director Aksnes of the State Road Administration says: ‘The exit may make the tunnels not operationally safe, but it is not a danger to the individual driver list.’ Does the Council share this view? Unfortunately, the experience of many road users is not so. They're actually the opposite. I'm going to use a pretty fresh example from Bergen. In a tunnel that the Council of State probably knows, the Damsgård tunnel, which runs between the City Hall and the Bergen Centre, yesterday there was a chain collision with eight cars, three were damaged. It was not possible, not even for the police, to open the escape doors to allow an ambulance to enter the tunnel. When even the police are unable to use the emergency equipment and evacuation equipment, it shows that we have a problem. When we also have telephones that do not work, and poor lighting, it is clear that the individual road user has reason to feel insecure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1154	I do not know the case from Bergen to which reference is made. I have to ask for an understanding that I cannot comment on it. But it's clear that if one can't open the escape doors, there's a failure in the system. In that case, it must be recorded. Like every state council, I have to rely on the fact that we have a system that takes care of security. We have a good computer system, a proprietary computer system to keep track of this. It's up to the state road service all the time to make the priorities they tell me that they do, and as I trust they do, to take the most important tasks first, those that ensure security for people when they run in tunnels. I have no other answer than what I have already given, namely that this area, in terms of operation and maintenance, is a priority area. One has an own monitoring system, and of course it has come even more in focus after the events that have occurred with the tunnels in Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1167	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The situation at E18 in the north of Westfold requires immediate action to prevent chaos and cows in the event of weekend and holiday traffic being closed in the spring and in the summer. By transferring traffic from private cars to collective means of transport, traffic on the road section may be relieved. If train and bus services are stepped up through Westfold and capacity is increased, the number of cars on the road could be reduced. What will the Council of State do to prevent cows and chaos, for safety, efficiency and the environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1176	I would like to begin by saying that I am sorry for the problems caused by the closure of the E18 for road users and for the bus fare along the bypass. Together with the police and local authorities, the state road service has focused on this and is closely following developments in traffic on the re-routes. Many measures have been implemented: information on alternative routes, better sign and marking, physical repairs, including asphalting, slowing down traffic and increasing police surveillance. In addition, the ferry capacity associated with Moss-Horten is increased. Until now, the traffic disruption on the bypass has gone without any major problems. In the main entrance halls, as pins, we can't expect to avoid queues. We also know that daily traffic is increasing, and that it is usually 25 pst. greater in July than the average for the year. For this reason, it would be particularly important to be able to open the E18 before the public holiday. It's now added to the opening on July 6. We know that road users are good at adapting to major and temporary changes in their supply, both by travelling less, by changing the time of travel, by changing the route and by changing the means of travel. It was the last time we saw it at the end of the Easter break. Daily traffic on rv. 313, old E18, is now slightly smaller than he was on the E18 before crashed in the Hanekleiv tunnel. We also know from the national survey of travel habits in 2005 and other material that travel through Vestfold is very much a visit and holiday or leisure journey, that nearly half of all traffic through the week is on Friday and Sunday, and that about 70 pst. of all journeys by own car. Of course, it would be positive if more people were to benefit from public transport, as the representative Jan Sahl points out. However, with the composition of traffic, it is particularly challenging to transfer just such journeys to public transport. On Monday 30 April, I had a meeting with others. the transport companies which account for a large proportion of public transport through Vestfold. At this meeting, various proposals were presented to help facilitate the improvement of public transport. Some proposals are now being implemented, while some are being assessed on an ongoing basis against the actual problems that could arise when traffic increases towards the summer. It will be established at Bergsenga as soon as possible, where traffic from the north will be transferred to the old E18. It will easily form queues at the instigation, and with collective fields, public transport will escape this queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1191	I noticed that the Council of State very much repeats the answers given to the two previous questions, and they essentially focus on the measures taken on the road systems. That's very good. The Council of State must be commended for being extremely active in facilitating the smooth and efficient closure of road traffic. Unfortunately, for various reasons, it has been quite a long time since the question was asked. That's why I have to say that I find it disappointing that the Council of State reports back that one in principle has not done anything to increase public transport. The environment is currently very high on the road, and we know that the areas that are now receiving extra traffic are having an additional environmental impact. My question is, what is the reason why one has not focused more on increasing public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1200	When the questions asked to the Council of State are similar, it is natural that the answers must also be similar. It's been doing a good marketing on the part of the public sector, but, as I said, the composition of the traffic is so it's hard to catch up on all the increased traffic in the collective system. For trains, it is simply about having capacity at the current times, when one gets such a large, compressed traffic on Friday afternoon and Sunday evening. The bus companies, which are more flexible, have marketed their offers extra well. We also work with them to further strengthen the marketing of existing collective services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1207	As far as I'm aware, there's a significant commuter traffic on the Westfold Railway, and as the Council of State itself was in, it turns out that in precisely such situations as we're now in, people are willing to change travel patterns. When obstacles arise in road traffic, more people choose collective means of transport. Therefore, it is expected from the Christian People's Party that you have an increased focus on it. With the situation that has now arisen, I would like to ask the Council of State whether she will finally make some assessments and look at how much increase in public transport has been achieved, and draw some conclusions as to the extent to which road users are willing to change their behaviour. This could also be a great opportunity to see if someone might change their travel pattern overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1214	Such traffic tellers have public corporations. At this meeting on 30 April, I was informed that there was growth both for the NSB in passenger transport and for the bus companies. A record of growth. It's registered, so I'll talk about it. They can of course also have access to the representative Sahl. I agree with the representative, Sahl, that this is an interesting case, also because I am in charge. road pricing. All the experience from other countries shows that if you want people to move from driving to public transport, a carrot is not enough, even if we have to have capacity in the collective field. One must also have restrictions on the use of cars. As you can see, this is an exciting example of looking back at the impact this has on people's collective use. I hope that very many people now take collective travel, both do it in retrospect and try out that possibility, which I think will affect everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1225	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘There is a great need to improve the regularity and capacity of NSB’s local traffic in the Oslo area. At the end of January this year, an agreement was presented whereby the NSB would increase the offer by 15 pst. or 2000 additional seats. This would give more departures, including: on weekends, as there are hours and fewer adjustments and delays due to material shortage, capacity problems, etc. Can the Council of States state any details on how the improvements in supply will be designed and when they will be implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1234	The Department of Transport and NSB AS signed a new framework agreement on the state purchase of passenger transport services by train around the turn of the year 2006/2007. These liabilities for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2010. Local train in the Oslo area is an important part of the total traffic diversion in the capital area, and I have been busy with the reliability and attractiveness of the offer for passengers. In the near traffic around Oslo, additional carriages are gradually being installed on departures that are part of the current timetable. This will give you a lot more rush space in the capital city area. The main part of the vehicles will be installed from the new schedule in January 2008. With this capacity increase, the NSB will be able to produce more than 2000 seats in the rush period than they had in 2006. The framework agreement also provides for several departures outside the short-haul traffic in the vicinity of Oslo and in intercity traffic, primarily from the 2008 regular service. The departures will include: dense gaps in the current timetable, so that the route provision is smoothed throughout the day. I think this is a proper measure, because the timetable is much easier to understand, and because the travellers get a smooth offer throughout the day. The experience of other public transport services is that this is an improvement in the supply of passengers that is very much appreciated and that leads to more people travelling collectively. Multiple take-offs increase the need for more drivers. The NSB has informed that the company now has a tight crew situation, among others. due to a tight labour market. NSB has taken many good steps to remedy the situation. I am sure that the company will do its best both to keep the staff and to attract new train drivers, so that it can deliver the agreed production as soon as possible. The Ministry also has a good dialogue with Norwegian Railway School, which is responsible for the training of train drivers. I am sure that the school in the years to come will do its best to train as many as possible in relation to reporting needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1251	I thank the Minister for the positive answer. I perceive that when you want to level out the gap in the current schedules and get a more even traffic throughout the day, it will also apply to the weekends, so that you can avoid long periods of hour routes, which in these very busy areas becomes too bad. The objective we have of increasing the collective share, which I am sure the Government is strongly committed to, should, after all, make every possible effort to increase capacity as quickly as possible. Then I would like to ask you to look at the possibility – I am aware that there are logistical problems associated with this – of getting trains from Moss and from the Hamar edge, which are far from stuttering when they go directly into Oslo, to stop at some of the most busy local train stations, such as Holmlia, Højbrätten and Haugenstua in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1258	It's a question that's related to the capacity stack that a unfortunately experienced in the area. It is difficult for me to answer it exactly, but I would like to go in and look at it. I see that there is a need for further reinforcement in this folklore area, but I can't answer if it's possible, because there's a lot of technical calculations that need to be done, and I don't have the opportunity to do it here. I'm open to a dialogue about this, similar to any other question that might be involved in increasing the collective part of the Oslo area. It's very important, and it's the government's very busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1263	I also thank you for the additional reply. It is positive that the Minister points out that there is a strong effort to increase the number of staff, because it is often reported that there is a shortage of staff, as it is said, and that is alarming. I would like to ask if the Minister can say something more about both what to do to get the number of drivers up, and what to do more to monitor and have more stringent control over the number of settings and the number of delays. I see it as quite acute – as far as people's desire and ability to travel collectively are concerned – that the proportion of settings and delays for various reasons, which are very little specified, is far too frequent. I would like to ask the Minister to look at the possibility of exercising more stringent supervision and to have more stringent reports on the number of settings. There will now be a new collective company in the Oslo area, a collaboration between Akershus-Oslo, to coordinate the supply better, and I would ask that it be added to a cooperation between NSB Proximity and the new collective company.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1272	What the NSB has done specifically to improve the driver situation, I can say a little bit about it. They started a campaign to increase the search mass of the railway ball. The number of applicants is triple this year compared to previous years, as a result of that campaign. This year, the ball will educate more coal than before – five coals with about one. Twenty students a quarter of a mile. NSB has now added 64 students. A fee is paid to take a vacation outside the school, which is a difficult time. An offer is made to train drivers over 62 years of age, and better conditions are imposed on drivers and instructors and, in addition, higher pay for working Saturdays and Sundays, because there are also critical days. A total of things are being done to ensure that you have the people you need. I shall consider stricter control and reporting. It's reporting today. I am very open for NSB to cooperate closely with the new, exciting initiative that a now has in Oslo and Akershus on the collective side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1285	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘In the context of the tunnel scandal at E18 in Westfold, the Council of State has ensured that the costs will be covered by an exceptional grant not to charge budgets or road users. What is now an up-to-date estimate of total costs of reopening tunnels, including compensation for affected and other ancillary costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1294	The security work of the seven tunnels in North Westfold is divided into two large contractor prices, both of which are carried out by Road Deck. Together with the repair work that has already been done at the breed site, other costs amount to between 340 million. kr. and 350 million. kr. The government will come back with a detailed presentation of the costs of the revised national budget, presented on 15 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1301	Thanks for the answer. It is clear that the amounts are going to be in the weather. It was probably about 200 million in the past. Now it's 350 million. kr. This was the case for the remedial actions carried out directly on new E18. My question is also a question of compensation to interested parties. We know that there are some traders along the new E18 who have lost all revenues as a result of a split new road system being closed. At first, the Vegvesenet clearly refused to provide any kind of compensation, but I have realized that there might now be a little different assessments that are being made. Are there costs related to old E18 and other bypasses? Or are these improvements that have cost nothing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1312	In my answer, I said that the sum represents the two large company prices of Road Deck, together with the repair work that has already been done on the breed site, and other costs. So there's more costs in that sum, and I'm going to do a little bit more on 15 May. When it applies to compensation to businessmen, it is a matter of its own. The meeting I had in Westfold on 30 April was also discussed. The rule has not concluded at that point. In that case, it'll be a question that doesn't necessarily include just the Ministry of Transport, because we don't have a pot in our budget to cover that kind of cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1319	Just to make it clear how Stortinget is now going to deal with these matters before the summer break: Now the Council of State referred to the revision, and it is natural that the money is coming there. But it is also a question of an overall proposal, which will be discussed by the Transport Committee. Can the State Council confirm that the recovery costs and the process for the Hanekleiv tunnel and the E18 will come as a separate matter to the Transport Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1326	In parallel with the proposal on the revised national budget, I present an aggregate proposal for the Stortinget. In that summary, there is a separate case about the Hanekleiv tunnel and the follow-up to the questions raised by the review group that I mentioned after the event. It will be submitted on 15 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1335	My question also goes to our Minister for Transport: ‘Langs Riksväg 3 in Hedmark has recently purchased a property for demolition in order to improve road safety. This is good! If such measures are a priority for the future, such measures will include: along this road, just to increase the safety of our road users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1344	Removing buildings close to the road could lead to better road safety, traffic management and the environment and could benefit from operation and maintenance of the road. Therefore, this action is a priority, including: for the purpose of road safety. A circular from the Directorate of Roads has made it clear that regional road offices can use operational and maintenance tools to redeem such buildings. In the circular, it is also clarified that such purchases can be made without going through the regulatory plan. The state road authority will not redeem such buildings without agreement with the owner. So the state roadway system has no place to live, so it's not going to be useful in such a situation. Redemption is most likely to occur when the property is placed for sale. It is therefore important that the State Road Service adheres to property announcements. It is also useful to notify real estate agents that they are interested in resolving this type of property. Often, the owner himself contacts the State Road Administration and offers ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1351	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. I chose a positive question to the Council of State, because I think the Council of State sees this problem. Before, the roads walked along the building, there was little traffic, and the traffic was different than it is today. Along this special road, rv. 3, there's a lot of heavy transport going on. When an outhouse or house is located along the roadside, it is clear that road safety will be reduced. I heard the Council of State said the matter would be prioritised. Then my question is, how much will this be prioritised? Does the Council have any plans? Does the Road Service have any plan for this? For example: traveled upwards along rv. 3 and saw that this house might be purchased and torn? But of course it should be completely voluntary for the seller. But back to my question, how much priority is this? Do you have a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1360	Based on the number of houses that are redeemed each year, it is not right to say that this is an important road safety measure. When, in many cases, such redemptions are reasonable, they are primarily based on the total effect. The security gain for traffic is primarily due to the fact that one is given reorganised runs. Of course, this can also be done in other ways, by controlling the output, i.e. by creating common outputs and access paths. Compare with center parts, width extension, etc. adequate redemption of houses must be said to be a less important road safety measure. Nevertheless, there is a measure that should and should be used in some cases, and it is the State Road Service and its professionals who have to make those assessments on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1365	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which might have been a little less positive now. I now understand that this will not be a special priority, and that you have no plan either. I think that's very bad. As I said, there is a lot of old settlement along many roads, among other things. along this road. Many of the roofs are so that when there are large amounts of snow and the snow falls, it falls on the road. That, of course, creates dangerous situations. So I hope that the Council of State will look even more at this, and that there will be money set aside for this. This is important, and at the same time it is a cheap investment to increase road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1372	As I said, we cannot face it as a road safety measure alone, but as a measure that can be sensible after a holistic assessment, including: road safety aspects are included. I can't say exactly how many houses have been demolished in the last few years, but when it comes to rv. 3, it seems that one of these has been more active in terms of redemption. Probably it's Hedmark in general compared to the rest of the country. It has been redeemed approx. 40 houses in the last 10–15 years in Hedmark. Half of them are along rv. 3, and it was to provide an average of one–two houses per. years along this road. It is in the interests of better road safety, better visibility, clearance of side areas, reduced need for pedestrian and cycle road development and a better environment. Of course, the economy is also part of the picture by providing better planning solutions for future expansions. So this measure is part of a health assessment together with other road safety measures, such as: the centre parts and the width extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1381	‘In the context of insufficient documentation on the construction and inspection of road tunnels, there are also questions about how to ensure the safety of road users on existing bridges. It is a major lag in the maintenance of the road network in Norway. Like the tunnels, the bridges form an important part of the road network and are therefore affected by the maintenance run. Will the Council of State ensure that procedures for the inspection and maintenance of bridges are reviewed in order to ensure safe movement of road users?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1388	I would first like to stress that the State Road Service has a long run in the administration of bridges, and has systems, routines and competences that are built up over a long period of time. This is based on your own knowledge and recommendations from among others. OECD. The Directorate of Road Information indicates that bridges are designed specifically to ensure easy access for inspection and maintenance. Requirements for the design of legislation and control and approval of all plans for new construction and refurbishment of bridges are important to achieve this. General supervision is included in the functional agreements, and the State Road Service carried out simple inspection and main inspection at fixed intervals. In addition, the Road Administration carried out special inspections as necessary. Competence is ensured through regulatory expertise requirements and is developed through courses and collections. In carrying out the inspections, it shall be checked that the bridges have the necessary safety and the maintenance needs shall be identified. The check interval is used to adjust each break within a given frame. For example, older bridges with injuries likely to develop into a safety hazard shall be inspected more frequently than new bridges. Each bridge has its own archive folder with documentation from design, construction and maintenance. In addition, a BRUTUS data-based bridge management system is used to keep an overview of the state, maintenance needs and priority of maintenance equipment to about 16,000 bridges on national and county roads. Based on the information I received from the Directorate of Roads, I cannot see that there is a need for a separate review of the inspection and maintenance procedures for the bridges. Current procedures shall ensure safe movement of bridges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1403	Thanks for the answer. We thought we had tunnel competence, and we thought we had good evidence of the construction of tunnels until the roof fell into the Hanekleiv tunnel. In the 2006–2015 National Transport Plan report, the State Vegvesen states that in the case of bridges and quays – combined in a large pile – the amount is DKK 3.3 billion. In the case of maintenance on the road tunnels, we have obtained the number of delays, approx. NOK 2 billion. My follow-up question is concrete: do we have any figures on the maintenance of bridges on highways and highways, with additional follow-up as follows? When it came to the tunnels, the road manager – as I mentioned in my question earlier today – said that he thought the tunnels were okay. Does the Council of State think the bridges are ok too?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1414	We have good competence in tunnels in Norway. The event in the Hanekleiv tunnel is confirmed as a combination of error assessment in the individual construction process and difficult mountain conditions. We must not forget all the other tunnels around the country that work satisfactorily. In the case of bridges, we also have competence and system. I referred to how many brides I have – there are 16 000 brides. We're forced to have a system that works for monitoring these. Neither the Council of State nor the Road Director can take the bridge individually. We need a system to control the bridges at fixed intervals. These checks shall be carried out in accordance with the fixed criterion. My task is to make sure that that system is good enough. In my main response, I said that the system we have for that control is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1421	Thanks again for your answer, and again for your follow-up. We thought that most of the tunnels in Westfold were safe until now eight are closed. In December 2005, 15 bridges were threatened with closure in the Eastern region of the media. In February 2006, a list of 35 bridges came from Central Norway. I think that the mapping may be reasonably good, but my follow-up question is still: how much has been delayed in the maintenance of bridges used by road users today, and how many years are we going to wait for more reassuring and thorough maintenance of the bridges, so that they are not afraid of either being closed or falling down?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1428	I register that the representative Sortevik in questions about questions is very busy with the follow-up. Governments are more busy with what we can do than what previous governments left behind. I would wish that the Progress Party in the previous period, when they put decisive influence on the state budget, had sighed that some of the great aftermath we have, both on tunnels, bridges and otherwise on the road, had been taken in. It didn't happen. This government increases the rights to billions of dollars, including for operation and maintenance, which will benefit bridges. Yes, there is also a billion-dollar lag in the bride class, which has been allowed to grow by changing governments and with varying support in the Stortinget. We've stopped the growth in the aftermath of maintenance, and we're going to do our job of providing funds for the overhaul and maintenance of the bridges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1439	‘In the evening post of 30 April 2007, policy-makers from all three government parties exit and follow up the Left’s proposal to oblige all major gas stations to sell biofuels from next year. Will the Council implement this obligation in the next year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1446	The government is working on an introduction program for biofuels in accordance with the Soria Moria declaration. We will present the Government's comprehensive policy to promote the use of biofuels in this introduction programme. The strategy shall include, inter alia: contain a plan to phase biofuels into the fuel market. At the same time, it is very important to put in place schemes to ensure that biofuels on the Norwegian market do not adversely affect food security and food prices or environmental values such as forest land, biological deficiency and water resources. So-called second-generation biofuels are more environmentally friendly than biofuels produced today. From this point of view and for the sake of industrial development and economic growth in the districts, it is important to stimulate Norwegian production of second generation biofuels. The government is also busy telling car owners how much biofuels the car tolerable, and I have asked the Directorate of Road to look at options for us to inform them about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1455	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I was positively surprised when, early in the spring, the Council of State went out in the Newspaper and announced that she would set up a billion-dollar fund to support measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. A state-owned company, Transnova, was to manage the returns of this fund. However, I was disappointed when the Minister of Transport reported back that the matter had not been dealt with by the government. In the evening post of 30 April, it appears that politicians from all three government parties on the Stortinget wanted such a Transnova. Is the Government now in favour of establishing such a mechanism to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1464	The Vice-Chairman of the Center Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, presented a strategy for, among other things, following the national meeting. biofuels, climate and transport. The Nestleader then said that Transnova is a measure that the Center Party wants to implement. So when we're in government and not in opposition, it can't be done with a pen stroke. In fact, it must be worked out, prepared and financed. That work has been taken into account by the Council of State. That work will be in progress, and we will come back to it in our own way and in our own time. It's important for me to ask that with two hats, both as a Vice-Chairman and as a Councillor, even the Vice-Chairman sometimes has to be able to flag matters clearly. I am very pleased that all the three government parties in Stortinget have supported the Central Party's initiative at the national meeting, and so we have great opportunities to implement and create Transnova, which I believe will be an important hub for better climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1473	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the positive answer. Climate policy is one of the greatest challenges of our time, but in the context of the 2007 state budget, the government cut support for public transport in urban areas by about a third. In the view of the Left, these were poor environmental policies and poor transport policies. There is a need for a significant boost to improve the provision of collective services if Norway is to be able to achieve the climate goals of the Government while at the same time addressing the traffic challenges we face. Does the Council agree that the reward scheme for public transport should be significantly strengthened in the context of the revised budget and the next state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1482	The government has said in the Soria Moria Declaration that we will continue and strengthen the collective action system in the cities. This comes back to us in each financial year. It is not that the Council of State can today tell what comes in the revised budget for 2007. But the budget will be presented on 15 May, so it's not that long. The government is very busy stimulating cities to increase public transport investment. We are also concerned that they come up with measures that can limit car use, because it is only then that we can have a great transition for users of public transport. I hope to cooperate well with the opposition at Stortinget to implement a good policy in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1493	‘In the last issue of Transport, we get a status report that clearly indicates the need for significantly increased appropriations if the railway is to continue to be a successful freight forwarder. When does the Council expect the Government to have taken back billions of tickets in relation to its own promises, so that more crossing tracks of 600 metres and other important measures can be put in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1500	When it comes to rail freight traffic, it has increased significantly in recent years. From 2003 to 2005, domestic rail freight increased by about 46 pst. Growth has continued in 2006 and 2007 and is expected to continue in 2008. The removal from 1 January 2007 of the electricity charge on the railway may also contribute to an increase in the demand. As a example of the additional demand, I can see that from January 2008 daily train paths have been booked for eight trains to five today on the southern runway and eleven trains to six to seven today on the Bergensbana. The strong increase leads to pressure on the capacity both on the individual routes and at the loading and unloading terminals. In order to increase freight capacity, more coherent measures are needed for all routes. On behalf of the Ministry, the Railway Agency is currently assessing the best ways to facilitate the improvement of rail freight transport. By the end of 2007/2008, the new freight terminal at Ganddal will be completed. Work has also been started on increasing the capacity of today’s Alnabru freight terminal in addition to the railway station working on plans for the construction of a new Alnabru container terminal. In addition to some points within the intercity and near-traffic areas around the largest cities, e.g. Lysaker-Sandvika, Eidsvoll-Hamar, Ski-Oslo, Arna-Bergen, there are three railway lines considered by the Railway Agency to be specific for the carriage of freight trains. These include the Southern Railway between Kristiansand and Ganddal, the Gjøvikbana between Grefsen and Roa, which will be used for freight traffic between Oslo and Bergen, and the Northern Railway north of Saltberg. For Northern Ireland, capacity-enhancing measures are included as part of the ongoing development of remote control between the Mos Sea and Bodø. The planning of actions on the rest of the network is now required in 2007. In 2008, priority should be given to actions on Sørlandsbana and Gjövikbana, together with further planning for new actions in 2009. First, emphasis will be placed on measures that allow more freight trains to be run than today. At the same time, facilities being developed will be dimensioned so that they can be included in a step two in order to run longer freight trains. This is done to follow a 600-metre-long freight train every two hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1517	I thank you for your answer. I am so pleased that the Council of State shares my view and the Right's view that the measures we took in the last period of government, including for the railways, have been a great success. For example, at Bergensbanen, freight traffic increased by 80 pst. The last four years, and now more than 60 pst. of the goods on the railway. So this is a success story that can't possibly be attributed to the lag that the sitting government has. Tom Rune Nilsen of the National Association of Logistics and Transport states: ‘It is simply not possible to deliver such poor quality at a time when the competitiveness of Norwegian industry depends heavily on the timely delivery of the goods to customers.’ He points to the situation that has arisen as a result of the success. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State now have concrete plans to solve it as completely urgent, not just refer to the long-term and price-worthy plans, as she did?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1536	I will come back with concrete proposals for measures to increase rail freight capacity in the short term in the context of the 2008 State Budget. At the same time, the Railway Agency will continue to develop a good strategy as the basis for its NTP 2010-2019 plan. This strategy will further address the needs and priorities of rail freight in the longer term. When it comes to the efforts of the previous government in this field, I would say that we would have avoided having this lack of capacity now if the previous government had not only put out the freight in competition, but had seen to it that they also increased capacity. It didn't happen to the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1543	I thank you again for the answer. The previous government represents a success within the Norwegian railway system that is historically noticed. We can do that in a different discussion. What I'm asking is how we can satisfy the market's need for further improved transport of goods by rail. The NSB and CargoNet company imagine ten to twelve trains in each direction on the Bergensbanen – today there are seven. This is not possible, because there is no cross-sectional capacity. Then the Council of State will get a good idea from me and my party, of which we also had many in the last period: Create an action plan for the development of crossing tracks on the railway, so that we can satisfy the need for more goods on the track and use 600 meters of trainset, as the operators want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1554	Thank you for your suggestion. But I don't think the representative was listening completely to what I said in my main response, because then I said that the Swedish Railway Agency, on behalf of the Council of State, is building a plan to enter the NTP 2010–2019. It is precisely an action plan for the development of freight transport, and there is, of course, a cross-sectional section. I would so much like to know that the Right in the previous government had not only had many thoughts, ideas and plans, but that they had implemented them, because when we entered the government offices and wanted to increase the stakes on the railway in the first budget, we simply couldn't do that, because there were no planned projects. This government has had to deal with this from the ground up. We have planned projects, we've increased the investment frame by 50 pst, and we're going to continue the historic bet that this government has seen on the railroad, even when it's for goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1563	Question 15 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1570	‘An important objective of immigration policy must be that we treat people fairly and that human considerations weigh heavily in an overall assessment. According to a survey in NRK Uppland, a family father from Nigeria was sent out of the country because he had worked for 4 months without a work permit. He is established in Norway, married to a Norwegian woman and has children. Now the family is divided. Does the Council of State believe that such a breach of the rules on employment permits should outweigh family policy considerations and the best interests of the child?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1577	I will initially refer to my written reply of 21 March this year to question No. 760 from the representative Odd Einar Dørum. As you know, the Foreign Affairs Act prevents me from going into specific individual matters. This also applies to the matter referred to by the representative Tørresdal. However, I would like to make a few comments on the general questions raised as to whether breach of the rules on work permit should outweigh family and child considerations. The objective conditions for expulsion are laid down in the Foreign Affairs Act. Infringements of the Foreign Affairs Act, including violations of the work permit rules, may by law lead to expulsion. If the conditions for expulsion are met, the foreign authorities shall carry out an assessment of the disproportionate nature of the expulsion. Deportation shall not be decided if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the relationship of the non-resident with the State, it would be a disproportionate measure to the non-resident himself or to the immediate family members. Such a proportionality assessment will be complex and discretionary, and a number of elements need to be weighted. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs shall carry out this assessment on the basis of best judgement. The outcome of such an assessment may result in a decision to expel even if the foreigner has children in Norway. However, the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration in assessing whether expulsion is a disproportionate measure, as stated. The Children's Convention, made into Norwegian law by the Law on Human Rights. In the context of the expulsion provisions of the new law on foreigners, I would like to propose that it be clarified that, in matters relating to children, consideration of the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration. I think it is right to highlight this consideration in the legal text in order to ensure specific awareness of this, even if it will not involve any change in relation to the applicable law. However, the inclusion of such clarification could have educational significance. In addition, the closer assessment of the proportionality of expulsion and the consideration of family and children in Norway will continue to be based on a concrete assessment of all aspects of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1586	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that he says so clearly that in a new foreign law it should be clarified that the consideration of the child's best interests should weigh heavily. The government has said that children's rights should count more than before in such cases, and that is something that the Christian People's Party is very pleased about. But does the Council of State think that the seriousness of the matter, which is that a Nigerian has worked in Norwegian society, that is, done work in our society, without having permission to do so, is proportionate to the concern of children? Does the Council of State feel that there is a great seriousness in the breach that has occurred here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1593	Firstly, I need to say that what the government has said is that children should be able to stay in Norway more easily. We haven't said that it's going to be more difficult to carry out expulsions of people who have children. That's an important clarification. The representative shouldn't pull us any further than we've actually gone, and we've done a good job. To the specific matter: I believe that the fact is that neither the representative Tørresdal nor I have insight into it. The case is located in the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs. It is impossible for me to assess whether I agree with the proportionality assessments made by the non-resident authorities in this case. However, I fully agree that a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act should form a basis for expulsion, and then it must be weighed against other considerations. Consideration for children shall be given in a proper and good manner, with the child's best in focus, and then the discretionary decision must be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1600	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The government has said that it is primarily about children's residence in the country, but it has also been said that consideration for the best of children, which is in line with the Children's Convention, should count heavily. In this case, there are many reactions to the expulsion, that the family was split, in relation to the seriousness of the breakup and the overall assessment, where there was therefore a family with a small child to be assessed. It is difficult for ordinary people to understand that there are no possibilities for politicians to intervene in this. What does the Council of State say about such difficult matters? Aren't these matters, which seem so unreasonable to ordinary people, involved in breaking down the trust in the law we have in such matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1611	No, I'm for the law that we have, and I'm very much for the individual things that are being treated to lie in UDI and UNE. If it is the case that the representative Tørresdal believes that a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act in relation to a work permit should not be an expulsion basis, if you have a child, it is free to propose it at any time. Not least when we get the Foreign Affairs Act for treatment, it is possible to legislate, if you believe that a breach of that type of provision should not be a grounds for expulsion. I disagree. But if the Christian People's Party thinks otherwise, you can democratically treat it and vote for it in this Chamber. In this way, the question can be dealt with at a political level, i.e. whether it should be a basis for expulsion or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1620	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘In an internal Ap note on ‘storbyseiier’ in Dagbladet on 27 April this year, it appears that the government party will be in favour of more police in Oslo. Is it because it's per. Today are not the red-greens who run Oslo, that the government leaves 189 unoccupied posts at the Oslo Police Chamber, or is it based on a real crime assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1629	We don't build up the Oslo police from who's in charge in Oslo – let's be clear. It's from pure crime assessments that the government wants to strengthen the police, including in Oslo. This is well anchored in the Soria Moria Declaration. In the context of the first budgetary procedure after accession, immediately after, inter alia, the then Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss resigned, we increased the appropriations for the Oslo Police District, contrary to the proposal of the previous government. Another important effort that we've made, which is absolutely crucial if we're to get more policemen out on the streets of Oslo and elsewhere, is to increase the student intake at the Police College to a total of 432 students. This provides the basis for increasing staffing in the future. This is the highest recording since 1998, and is a crucial prerequisite for actually getting more police officers out. The average unemployment rate at the Oslo Police District is about 100 posts. In all organisations, there is some leave in connection with employee retirement or retirement. In addition, the police district has decided that job vacancies should remain unoccupied for a few months, in order to strengthen other tasks. The resource situation in the Oslo police district has recently been raised by many large-scale representatives – and that is good. By 24 April this year, I had the pleasure of discussing the resource situation in connection with an interview from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen. Like me, among others. said in my intervention in that debate, there is a need for increased resources. But it is also important to focus something in addition to the approx. 180 unoccupied posts. In the Oslo police district, there were nearly 2,500 annual works in 2006 and a budget of nearly DKK 1.4 billion. The staff in the districts make a very good effort in a number of areas and achieve many good results. In my opinion, it is sad and regrettable that the focus of the media and others is largely just on criticising the police. There is also another question I am going to answer today, which concerns the resource situation in Oslo, especially in the investigation of social security abuse in the taxi industry, which is also based on the same arguments. As I have said on several occasions, I believe that the sum of a number of factors, such as appropriations, personnel, competence, equipment, organisation, management, methods, regulation, cooperation with others, settlement capacity, custody, etc., provides the basis for what the police can achieve – what I have called police force. It cannot just focus on appropriations alone. I am closely following developments in the police in general and in the Oslo police districts in particular. I want the police to have more resources, but difficult balances must always be made with other high priority tasks. I also need to remind you that the Government is concerned with the extraordinary expenses incurred by the Oslo Police, and that the Oslo Police District has recently been granted an additional grant of up to 42 million. SEK to cover additional expenses relating, inter alia, to: NATO's informal foreign meeting in Oslo now in April, through a staging proposition addressed here in the Storting. I would also like to say that we are seeing ever better results on the part of the Oslo Police. While we're here talking, we're in the process of implementing a coordinated police action against the troops in Oslo. There we see very good results. It was started last year, and in these minutes, an action is being directed against a number of people and addresses that can be linked to the leadership layer in a very well-known community. This action has the strategic choice of hitting the economy of these gangs and securing and confiscating values that can be benefits from criminal acts not only here in Norway but also abroad. As much of the bet that the government has on the Oslo police, we actually also see that we can get good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1652	Since the Council of State responded with a historical reluctance, I would like to extend the historical reluctance to apply to more than one financial year. If all four budgetary years under the Bondevik II government are taken together, the appropriations for the Workers' Party in the opposition were proposed as a sum for the period. But I'm going to leave it, because that doesn't mean anything compared to what's now the situation. I agree that in many areas the Oslo Police are doing a good job and doing their job. But it's unsatisfactory that you have an explanation rate of 21 pst. It is unsatisfactory that ordinary people’s reviews — even known perpetrators — are made. The Council of State will later answer a question about the settlement of taxi fraud, to which I hope he can respond positively, in the sense that such cases cannot be settled, for reasons of public morality and for the respect of the individual's respect for the work of the police. I see every moment the Council of State is now coming forward, as an argument that the police are going to have increased appropriations already at the revised budget next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1659	I agree with the questioner in the assessments about being present at a very large number of crime types. That's the background for the government choosing to strengthen the Oslo police force. To the extent that I tried to write history, it's so that we've actually strengthened the police. The same percentage of clarification as the questioner now mentions was also valid under the previous government, when the questioner was Minister of Finance. If you were really concerned about this, you could get caught then, and not do the cut that you did in 2005 at the Oslo Police Department, and that we are about to fix. So it's crucial for me to stress that we can't just afford to get out of the crew situation in Oslo, because we actually need more police officers. And it takes time – of course. But at least I'm happy to say that this year we will get the recording that I described instead, and that will at least lay the foundation for us to be able to strengthen the Oslo Police too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1666	I will not continue the debate on history. I just want to say the following – and that's my simple opinion – that if a government intends to spend four years telling what the previous government didn't do, you haven't understood the point. The previous government also wanted to continue working to strengthen the police effort, but a choice decided otherwise. I perceive the Council of State so that what is written in the internal note of the Workers' Party, that Oslo Police should be strengthened, votes. Then my question is, can we assume that the Oslo police are also right when they say that increased appropriations in the current year would enable them to step up their efforts also with regard to the recruitment problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1673	I can underline once again that the Government has the ambition to increase the resources of both Oslo Police Districts and other police districts. It has to be done in two ways. This shall be done in the case of appropriations, but the appropriations must be available to the staff. That challenge was addressed as soon as possible. That's why the recording has increased at the Police College. My reference to the story is that the last finance minister at that time Per-Kristian Foss did was cut off the appropriations for the Oslo Police and have a much lower admission to the Police College. We have done something about that that in the future we can go in the direction we want, and that the Oslo Workers' Party is also fighting for when it comes to the situation of the Oslo Police District. There is also a basis for pointing out that we will be totally dependent on, in addition to increased efforts on the police, to increase the prevention effort in the city. I'm optimistic, regardless of what regime we have in Oslo, but look forward to a much more active attitude towards preventing crime, so that the police don't use resources, among other things. in central street areas on Wednesday evenings and Saturday evenings, and can use the resources to capture the serious crime we see today, the Oslo police actually take active action, especially the gangs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1686	‘Through extensive work by social offices, social security offices, tax offices and municipal audits, there has been a widespread social-security abuse in the taxi industry in Oslo. Now it turns out that several of the cases are filed by the Oslo Police because of ‘procedural capacity’. This has a very bad signal effect. I believe the Council of State is a satisfactory situation, and he will do something, for example. in the revised budget, so that this type of serious matter is actually investigated and organised?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1693	The question from the representative Syversen about the police's investigation of social security fraud concerns an area of great interest and I have explained on several occasions the police's work on financial crime, including tax and social security fraud. Similarly, the cooperation between NAV, the police and the tax administration has been explained in my reply of 12 February of this year to the Stortinget regarding a written question from the representative Oktay Dahl — question No. 564. The topic has also been addressed in my answer to written question No. 902, from the representative, Mr Dahl, and written question No. 903, by Mr Aspaker. The budgetary situation in Oslo is inter alia: recorded in an interpellation here in Stortinget on 24 April this year. I look very seriously at social security fraud and also tax fraud, and I am concerned that in the fight against this type and other types of economic crime, we get the most effect out of the resources available at all times, through close cooperation between the relevant authorities. The government has since its accession, for example: in the revised budget for 2006, reinforced the staffing of ECOCRIM with a total of 11 annual works and 6.2 million. kr. Together with the development of a new computer system in ECOCRIM and the proposal to strengthen the tax base by 10 million. kr to intensify efforts against, inter alia, tax evasion was a significant boost in the fight against economic crime. In the current year's budget, the budget has increased by another 10 million. on the Ministry of Finance's budget to increase the number of police district assistant auditors to become a nationwide scheme. The number of reports of social security fraud has almost tripled in the last five years. 1 690 persons were reported as having cheated social security schemes in NAV in 2006. This is 449 more than in 2005. It was cheated for 188 million. SEK 45 million. kr more than in 2005. The Directorate of Police reports that the reported increase in the number of notifications is largely related to the increased efforts of NAV to detect and prevent social security abuse. The increase in the number of reviews, in the opinion of the Police Directorate, poses a capacity challenge for both NAV and the police. At a central level, the Police Directorate and NAV have taken action to further develop and strengthen cooperation between the agencies. Regular annual cooperation meetings between the police director and the social security director can be mentioned here. The Advocate General is invited to these meetings, while on several occasions he has had his own meetings with the Director of Social Security. I feel confident that these processes across the level will help ensure good interaction and effective cooperation. The national lawyer confirms that some criminal cases of social security abuse related to the taxi industry in Oslo have recently been committed for so-called capacity reasons. However, the Oslo Police District has converted two of the relevant decrees; in addition, one decree has been converted by the Oslo State Attorney's Office. The Advocate General informs us that a meeting is being held today with the management of the Oslo Police District, where provision for capacity-related matters reported by social security offices, social security offices or tax offices will be the subject. I have full confidence that the Riksadvokat and the Public Prosecutor's Office will follow these matters closely. That's all there's to it. Without going into any detail on the reports that form the basis of the representative’s questions – it is not that political leaders control it – it should be noted from my point of view that serious economic crime is among the issues which, according to the National Attorney’s Roundtable of Priorities, should be given priority to the police. This applies in particular to the criminal offences affecting the community. With regard to the budget of the Oslo Police District, I would also like to point out my answer to the previous question, from the representative of Per-Cristian Foss. It is still the case that, in terms of what may come into future budgets, we get to it when the budget is finished and presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1714	With that answer, the Council of State indicates that he wants this type of crime to be corrected and that he takes a serious view of it. At the same time, there's something about the description you get officially, in conjunction with the information you get about the ether, which I think most people ask questions about. I'm going to quote what the head of the prosecution department in the police station in question said in connection with the settlement of these four cases, which I also understand is that you don't go directly into. He said: ‘Oslo police districts are in a very tight budgetary situation, where we also have lower crews than normal in this respect. And that is why in 2007 we have to resolve cases due to procedural capacity.’ Then the reporter asks: ‘Is there a lot of things that are being blamed?’ The answer is: ‘There are many more cases than in previous years. That's a result of the budgetary situation we're in, and not something we're comfortable with." Does the Council of State understand that the kind of opinion in public space is disturbing both those who are listening to and those who have done a lot of work to straighten out these matters from local authorities? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1734	The President must ask the representatives to keep up with the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1737	I understand that people react to such a representation. But this is primarily a political responsibility. We're going to make sure that the police have sufficient resources, not only in crowns, but also in crew. At the same time, it is clear that it is important that the information I now provide in the Storting comes to the public: that active action is being taken to rediscover this type of facility. We believe that there should be clear and clear political signals that provisions with capacity-related reasons should be very withholding – to say the least. Just this kind of thing we see as theft from the community. It's a kind of crime that we actually have everything we can do to get organized, so that we stop unjustified payments from the public. It makes me think it's important that we actually get the grip on this. With regard to the debate on Oslo police, there are many information challenges facing us, just to show how much we actually get left for, among other things. The $1.4 billion you spend.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1746	I'll try to keep time. I broadly agree with the Prime Minister of Justice in general. At the same time, I'm not quite happy to continue this heads and ears discussion. The main challenges facing a police district must be to deal with the crime that is taking place, and, even more so, to raise funds for prevention, so that crime can actually be avoided. Then this heads discussion becomes a little less interesting to me. If in a given year you've got much bigger problems, much bigger pressures, it doesn't help to show that you've got x more dollars, especially if these have gone to the price, to pay, etc., etc. My point, finally, is to ask the Minister of Justice: does he think that the Oslo police are now at the budgetary level corresponding to the challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1755	I am very pleased that the Government has managed to increase the grants to the Oslo Police. I've repeated that several times in this hall. I believe it was wrong for the government where the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, to cut the appropriations for the Oslo Police in 2005. I think that was unfortunate. I have said in the public space – and I say that – that at least these cuts need to be corrected, and you have to move on. But it depends on us, among other things. have trained enough policemen to fill posts. I believe that the Oslo police are on their way to a very high degree. There's also another dimension to these challenges. Work needs to be done on how to organize, manage and do the work. The efforts now being made in the Oslo Police Department, including: related to trafficking, where we have established our own group, and to repeat crime, is a good example of Oslo police being able to get more out of their policy-makers by cooperating with other police districts and with specific bodies, and actually organising investigations so that they do not affect the economy. So I mean the Oslo police are doing a good job, they're on the right track – and we're going to contribute further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1767	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality: ‘The Council decided before Christmas that responsibility for lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 should be transferred to the protection of children. It is essential for these children to be well cared for by staff with both pediatric and refugee competence. In addition, careful supervision is essential in order to ensure the legal certainty of children. Will the supervision of care measures be carried out under the Child Welfare Services Act and will the lone minors also be subject to post-care requirements under the Child Protection Services Act § 1-3?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1776	According to the Soria Moria Declaration and the Grant of the Storting, the establishment of a care facility in the reception phase for lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 is under way. The offer shall be made pending the decision on the asylum case and until the settlement or possible return to the country of origin. The Ministry is now preparing proposals for legislative amendments and adaptations. The starting point is that the basic provisions of the Child Protection Act shall apply mutatis mutandis when the child is in the care centre, with the adjustments necessary for that group of children. The Regional National Child Welfare Authority is responsible for providing a care facility and the quality of the care centre is as stringent as the requirements of child-restraint services. There will be two psychologists attached to the institution. Where the child’s needs cannot be adequately addressed by the care centre or the child wishes to stay outside the care centre, the centre shall notify the municipal child protection service to assess whether specific measures under Chapter 4 of the Child Protection Act should be implemented. Each child will be appointed a guardian and an individual monitoring and action plan shall be drawn up. This will serve as a basis for the needs to be met in the event of a residence or return to the country of origin. This means that the assistance provided to children under the Child Protection Act is based on a very specific individual assessment of the individual child. Single minor asylum seekers will in principle always need an adapted care provision while waiting for their residence or return. Therefore, there is no need for the municipal child protection service to implement, on a case-by-case basis, measures under the Children’s Protection Act Chapter 4, based on an individual specific assessment of the necessity or otherwise of the location. Nor will there be a need for such measures to ensure full legal certainty for individuals at the centre. The county council shall supervise the operation of each child at the centre, and also the operation of the centre, in a manner similar to that of the current child-restraint services. The County of Oslo and Akershus have been given the task of assessing how the regular supervision of institutions should be adapted to this specific target group. In this context, it is important to clarify that supervision should be of a quality and a degree resulting from current legislation. The care centre shall ensure that the children are provided with care during the asylum search phase and until a concrete settlement. The question of after-sales protection will only be raised after the lone minor has resided in a municipality. In the case of a residence in the form of measures under Chapter 4 of the Child Protection Act, § 1-3 of the Child Protection Act will normally apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1789	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and would like to ask follow-up questions about municipal child protection. If a child is in an institution and is required to have an individual assessment, only municipal child protection can make individual decisions according to current legislation. I understand the Council of State that municipal child protection should not be the responsibility of the single minor asylum seekers who are in the institution. How, then, does the Council of State think that the law should work if one is to have an individual assessment of each individual child? It may be that a child who comes to this institution will benefit better from being in a foster home while waiting for treatment of the case. It is the child protection that has the best competence to assess. Would it not therefore be natural for the municipality to have child-care responsibilities, in cooperation with a state institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1796	I share in many ways the representative's concerns and her views on the challenges she is pointing to, but it is important to look at the whole intention of transferring responsibility for this group to child protection. It is based on a recognition that these children have not received a good enough professional offer in the receptions where they have been sitting. When a child is ready for a possible return to a specific municipality, as I explained in my answer, there will be a type of package that will accompany this child, where it is done well for what type of treatment and care provision – foster home or new institution – the individual child needs. But what we're going to say now is that every asylum child will get an individual assessment in a completely different way from what has been set up so far. So I would like to say that there is an important part of municipal autonomy today – I can take that into account in my follow-up. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1803	I thank the Council of State again. What I have registered is that there are many organisations that have worked to ensure that asylum-seekers – when they come to Norway – have equal status with Norwegian children when it comes to follow-up. I am concerned that there should not be an individual assessment of the different needs immediately. But according to what the Council of State says here, it seems that children should be individually assessed according to their needs, even if they are in an institution, and that the protection of children in the municipality should not be the primary responsibility of these children, but the institution. Or does the Council of State think that child protection in the municipality is going to make a simple decision for these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1810	Now I do not know if I believe the representative is wrong, but it is clear that when a child is going to live in a municipality, it is important for the municipality to arrange for the child to receive the necessary help. We have a child protection law today that gives clear rights to these children, and what we are adding up to now is reinforced treatment, where the municipality will have a type of package where different types of relief measures for the individual child are outlined – measures that they do not receive today. It is important to clarify that one of the key tasks of municipalities today is to ensure that the most vulnerable, vulnerable children receive help. Then we also see that there is a need to coordinate more work between the different public authorities. We know that there is a need for more cooperation between child protection, school, kindergarten, police and health authorities. We're also adding that to the work on this specific target group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1821	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality: «I St.meld. No 40 were shown to be a method that can be used in the work of Sami families in the field of child protection, as this is a method where people in the network around the family discuss and plan how they can help improve the child’s situation. [[2001-2002]] [[large family]] Is it the impression of the Council of State that family councils have become more involved and have become an integrated approach in the work of Sami families in the field of child protection in recent years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1830	Family councils are a decision-making model in which child protection provides the family and the network with the opportunity to find solutions and take responsibility for their implementation. Family councils started in New Zealand in the 1980s, and the model has since spread to large parts of the world, including our own country. A research-based development project, national effort for testing and evaluation of family councils in Norway, was carried out from the summer of 2003 to the autumn of 2006, funded by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. The main conclusion was that the family council provides an overweight of positive effects even in relation to traditional methods. It was therefore decided that family councils should be implemented across our country as an alternative decision-making approach in child protection services. The children’s, youth and family budget, Bufetat, is given responsibility for this implementation. During the project period, more than 100 municipalities in the country have been trained in family councils. It's done over 400 family councils, and the activity we see is increasing. A national implementation plan is under preparation to ensure that all municipalities are given the competence to use this model. As a result, family councils are generally more used. The children’s, youth and family budget, in cooperation with the Children’s Protection Centre in North Norway, has taken the initiative to establish a knowledge-based status of relevant and existing methods and forms of work for the Northern Calote. As far as the issue of family councils has become an integrated approach in the work of Sami families, this is not yet the case. The model is used in the work of Sami families in some municipalities, such as Alta, Vadsø and Tana. On 2 May this year, the Alta team has drawn up a draft cooperation agreement with the three largest Sami municipalities, Karasjok, Kautokeino and Porsanger. The municipalities have defined themselves as an indigenous region, and the agreement is now under administrative treatment under the Avjovarri regime. One of the points of the cooperation agreement is ‘to evaluate together the use of family councils on care takeover issues and to cooperate on implementation’. We see that there is increasing interest in the model in other Sami municipalities, and a research-based test of the model is also being discussed in the work with Sami families.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1847	: I thank the Council of State for the answer. I myself believe that the family council will be a very important method of working with Sami families in child protection, as it is mostly about large families, with large networks. Last November, I asked a written question to the Council of State whether she believes that the rights of Sami children are well respected in today's law on child protection services. In answer, the Council of State wrote, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of ‘Children’s protection may also lack competence to assess the importance of cultural, linguistic and religious affiliations and different traditions in the Sami local communities.’ In St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, funds were committed to development projects aimed at integrating Sami cultural knowledge into child protection and at developing cross-municipal cooperation. In response to the Council of State on the lack of competence, we must assume that the development projects have either not been implemented or have not provided the necessary knowledge and cooperation. Has the Council of State come up with an opinion on what measures need to be taken to bring about the necessary knowledge of cultural, linguistic and religious belongings in the Sami local communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1859	We see that child-restraint employees are constantly in need of new knowledge and skills to help the most vulnerable children. That's why it's important that we focus on how education is at all times, so that we get to put new aspects into education. And we see that the theme that the representative addresses here today is a topic that may not have been high enough on the agenda. That is why it is also commendable that this initiative is being taken. So I want to say that the professional evaluation we've done so far is very positive in terms of how the family councils have worked towards these groups. It works further, and we hope, of course, that this will also reach more municipalities than those who are under test and have got this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1866	I also thank you for this answer, and my last question is: The association between siblings, who have been separated in a child protection case, is currently not regulated by the Child Protection Act. I do not want to conclude here and now that the law has to be amended at this point, but records through media and personal enquiries that there are some examples that the sibling who has been separated – against her will – has not met for many years, for example. can live on each side of the country. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the sibling who is taken care of by child protection, who wants to be with his siblings, actually gets it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1871	It is important to say that the Child Protection Act is based on the best practice of children. What has happened in the specific individual matters that the representative mentions, I ask for understanding that I cannot go into. But what is important is that children who come into such a difficult life situation, of course, should not be deprived more than necessary. It's obvious that the love of one's sibling is important. It is also important that the biological links between siblings are properly and properly maintained. I do not know about these individual matters, but I want to clarify very clearly what is laid down in today's law, and it is important that child protection ensures that they are followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1880	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘It is a clear policy objective to strengthen the provision of drug addicts and regional health firms have been instructed for several years to give priority to strengthening the specialised, multidisciplinary treatment provision for these patients. According to data from the Outreach and Coordination Service in the Municipality of Oslo, 85 people in need of detoxification were rejected due to a lack of capacity during weeks 31 to 40 in 2006. What does the Council of State do to ensure that anyone in need receives an offer of detoxification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1889	The government has a clear goal of strengthening the supply of drug addicts. It is clear from the Soria Moria Declaration, where we say that we will ensure drug-dependent access to faster treatment at all levels in the treatment and rehabilitation chain. Unfortunately, we have seen that waiting time for treatment, and perhaps especially detoxification, has been too long. I see it as particularly important that drug addicts who want it, and who need treatment, should not wait unnecessarily long, neither for detoxification nor for follow-up treatment and rehabilitation. Already in the 2006 supplementary proposal to the State budget, the Government, as it is known, added 91.5 million to its support for the drug problem. kr. We've also followed that up in 2007. A total of 220 million. kr granted for the current year. Over 70 million. kr of the year’s funds are earmarked for specialised drug treatment. In this year's budget proposal, for 2007, we have said that 9 million. kr shall be used for increased treatment capacity and a number of detoxification sites shall be prioritised. I have communicated this particularly to regional health companies through the mission document. There I have asked that the percentage growth this year also be stronger in the field of drugs and psychiatry than somatics, and I have specifically asked that the waiting time for detoxification should be reduced. The question refers to data from the Municipality of Oslo and that 85 people in need of detoxification were rejected due to a lack of capacity in the weeks 31 to 40 in 2006. According to Health East, there was at present lower detoxification capacity in the specialist health service than usual because the detoxification offer in Oslo and Follo was undergoing conversion during the current period. The emergency department at Ullevål University Hospital was undergoing conversion and had reduced operations. Detoxification was provided by other emergency institutions in addition to a reduced supply at Ullevål. Health East also reports that all requests for detoxification were dealt with and that all those referred to were treated. Some were offered detoxification at a later stage. Montebello was one of the emergency institutions that delivered the detoxification offer during the conversion period. Health East has informed that all applicants were given a place in the current period of this institution. That's 300 people. I have been informed that there has been some reduction in the capacity of Oslo and Follo in the current period. At the same time, the feedback I have received suggests that priority has been given to providing the best possible detoxification services in the region during this transition phase. With the government's efforts in this area, I expect drug treatment and the detoxification offer to be further strengthened in time to come. Drug addicts should have the same rights as all other patient groups when they need treatment for their drug problems. In this respect, I would also like to point out that we have recently sent a legislative proposal to the Stortinget on the rights of drug addicts to treatment. As we know, we have proposed changes to the Patient Rights Act, so that drug addicts are given rights in line with other patients when they are being treated for their drug problems. The proposal for a waiting period guarantee in the specialist healthcare service, which was transmitted on 27 April, also includes drug addicts under 23 years of age. Summary: After information from Health East, the situation today is so that those who need help today get help in the day, and I am happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1904	I thank you for your answer. It is gratifying that there is a cross-political consensus to bet on drug treatment. But in the light of that, it is quite reassuring to note that there are many who are still being rejected when they ask for help. This is the background for the fact that the Right also impatiently awaits the escalation plan for the drug field announced by the Council of State in the budget last year, but which has not yet arrived. A year ago, I asked a question about the detoxification capacity at Health East, in the light of the concerns, as the Council of State also refers to, that capacity was being reduced. But the acidiest thing about the offer is how the addicts themselves feel to be met. So now it turns out that there were as many as 85 people who were rejected when they needed help for detoxification, and some were also rejected several times. In view of this, I have to ask the Council again whether she thinks there is still reason to say that Health East is doing a good job. Or does she see that there is a need for stronger government on the part of the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1913	Firstly, I am also pleased that there is a great cross-political interest – at least among most parties – in this field, because I also like citizens to get an even better offer. I can immediately say – and then, of course, I am speaking in general – that we have significant challenges in the care of drug users, there is no doubt about that. We're going to get back to that soon. Then it is quite clear that in the period the representative here refers to, it was reduced capacity due to the things I have tried to explain. It is regrettable that someone had to wait a bit longer. I have been informed from Health East that this per. today far on the road now shall be brought in order, so that those in need of assistance in the day will receive help in the day. When I say that, it doesn't mean that everything is perfect, nor in the Health East, nor in Oslo. We know that there are major challenges at many levels related to drug use, and I promise that we are very active in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1922	There was another issue that I raised with the Council of State last May, which was linked to the new guidelines on drug treatment. These guidelines state that patients with serious drug problems who are not expected to benefit from treatment should receive municipal care rather than specialised treatment. Governments responded in a commendable way: ‘We should not, of course, have a system that will prevent those with the highest treatment needs from receiving help.’ Fortunately, the guidelines were stopped, as we requested, after a significant commitment from organisations in the field of drugs. However, on the basis of the figures reported by outreach services, several organisations, including Drug addicts' association, now addressed us to the Stortinget. They believe that the guidelines that the Council of State stopped last year are now being practised. The most disadvantaged are rejected and do not have a new chance of getting out of their addiction to drugs. What will the Council of State do to ensure that such practices do not occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1932	First of all, I'm going to check, because it's right, as the representative Sjøli said, that the guidelines were stopped, and new common national guidelines are to be created, so that one does not depend on which health region you belong to. So I just remind you once again of the bill we have here for treatment, which is going to give drug addicts a much stronger protection – or rights, to use another expression – to which I hope the Storting will join. Of course, those in need of help should get it, and it is clear that those with the most serious challenges, not least those with drug problems, will get help as quickly as possible. So we come back with various things that we can talk more about. We have a very active work to do about it, but it is still a bit undone. It's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1945	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Health: ‘It is currently technically possible to use GPS-based safety alarms, providing users moving outside the dwelling with a significant increase in safety. Few municipalities today have an offer of such alarms. Coordination between different authorities and municipalities will also be required to provide users with the necessary security if the need for assistance arises. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that GPS-based safety alarms can be made available in all Norwegian municipalities and that the necessary coordination will be put in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1954	There is no doubt that there is much that can be technically possible in the future, even to a large extent. Nevertheless, when I choose to express at least some scepticism to the representative of Höglund here, about a state initiative – if I have understood correctly – to introduce what he calls GPS-based security alarms in all Norwegian municipalities, there are two reasons: Firstly, I have some doubts as to whether state authorities should establish something that can – I say can come to – like a monopoly system for a type of technical aid where the municipality is responsible for providing the necessary care services. Secondly, widespread use of GPS for the monitoring of persons, even with the best intentions, will have ethical and privacy aspects that need to be assessed and considered. I have registered that there are already many actors in this market who provide violence alarms, security alarms and surveillance equipment for so-called free settlement. It illustrates to the extent that the border country in which we are located is between security and detention. There is, of course, a great difference in this respect between equipment that continuously monitors the movement of a person and equipment in which one itself triggers the alarm that tracks where he is located – that is quite clear. As we know, we have legislation relating to the Personal Registers Act and to health and social legislation that regulates necessary balances. But I'm very clear and prepared that new technology can make it necessary to assess the requirements that need to be imposed on such equipment, and how it is also used in municipal health and social services. However, I do not believe, at least not at this point in time, that it is up to us to establish a state system for this type of aid. Before we take initiatives to establish GPS-based security and surveillance systems, as proposed by the representative, I and the Government believe that we should carefully consider ethical and privacy considerations. Furthermore, of course, we need to see new technologies in the light of what kind of care services we want to provide. There is also a certain danger here. The technology should not be replaced by care – I have not understood that the representative has also said – but I have helped to support care. So in other words, I have an open mind about what's going to happen in the future, and we're going to stick with the technological development that's going on. To the extent that it can be positive for people, not least within the service we're talking about here, this is of course very interesting and something we'll follow closely, but per. I do not see today that we are going to take a state initiative to the extent that I perceive that the representative, Mr Höglund, is actually taking the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1967	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer – I do not feel that it was as positive as I would have liked. The scope of any launch here I have not looked at. We now have in my municipality, Asker, a user who has access to this alarm by a non-profit organization, but it is a problem, because you don't have the system to use it in the municipal care system, and you're unsure. These users are more mobile and active, they're not bedridden. They want a quality of their lives like the rest of us, and they can move across the municipal borders, and then some have to facilitate a kind of coordination that allows you to have the security you want. These are users, whom I am talking about in my case now, who today have a social alarm at the municipality, and who, of course, choose to accept such an offer. Could the Council of State envisage a pilot scheme for a limited number of municipalities and users?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1974	I understand what the representative, Höglund, now said, that this was a little bit different than what I had understood by the question, that it was a little less than it was really about. At least immediately let me say that I have the greatest understanding that people like the representative Høglund among others. Here we refer to those who have the opportunity to do so, wanting to be active, of course, across the borders of the municipality, because it is, among other things, a business. about living a good life. I am also very clear that in all possible contexts, not least between municipalities, we need to look at coordination across local borders. Then I am not prepared to answer the questions to Höglund now directly above the table, but I take with me the input that the representative Höglund has here, and I refer again to the objections that I believe one must at least go through before an assessor might have to do something like this. But when that's said, I'm taking with me the input that the representative here has.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1983	I thank you for the answer, and I think the way it turned out was very positive. I fully agree with the Council of State that it has some ethical aspects, and there are a number of things that need to be problematized and put in place. For me it will never be relevant, and certainly not for the Council of State either, to force such a thing on someone. We also do not know the extent of this, but it is now younger users with a social alarm who, when they are outside their own home, experience an uncertainty and a lack of security, a security they have inside the home. Here new technology can help, and I'm glad that the Council of State will take it along and see if there's anything you can do from the state to ensure that these users can get a better sense of security in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1990	Once again, I take with me the signals that the representative here sends, and then we'll evaluate it, also take into account the objections I had. Then we will get back to the matter on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e1999	I will ask the Minister for Health and Welfare the following questions: ‘One has been made aware of some significant differences in waiting times among medical officers in the municipalities of the country through a variety of reports in the media. This is due to the fact that the individual doctors in charge of medical care are responsible for a very different number of residents in their respective districts. This leads to a very long waiting time in some places. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the country’s citizens do not wait disproportionately long to get into the hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2008	It is quite right that the representative, Nesvik, points out that the waiting time for a medical officer varies greatly, if we see the country as a whole. It varies with both the place and time of the day in terms of waiting time and availability. Different lengths of waiting are not necessarily an expression that it is poorly organised or that it is not organised in accordance with the requirements imposed. It is up to the physician who has guarded to assess what is reasonable waiting time, if for various reasons it is necessary to wait. In the autumn of 2006, the State Health Authority summarised the findings of the supervision of municipal medical services during the period 2001–2005. The report reveals areas where I believe there is reason to have increased attention. Particular attention was paid to the responsibility of the municipality to ensure that the population is provided with a proper medical care throughout the day. In the case of medical services outside office hours, according to the experience of the Health Inspectorate, there is rarely a failure in the organisation of the guard itself, but in small municipalities there is no doubt that high guarding can be a problem. This, together with a request for a higher professional standard of service, has, as you know, led to the creation of intermunicipal medical guards in several places. Many of the medical guards have been very successful on the way. They act as recruiting and stabilising on medical coverage, improving the quality of service, and ensuring a proper medical watch plan. When districts become large and efficiency is assessed in terms of availability and time, the Health Authority expects the responsible municipal authorities to carry out a risk assessment. In the daytime, it is known to the prescribers to ensure that patients in need of immediate assistance can be received and evaluated. This seems to work well in most smaller municipalities. In municipalities with up to 20 000 inhabitants, doctors may be required to organise an immediate day-to-day emergency response. This option is used to a small extent. In populous municipalities and larger cities, it is known as organised day care services, which largely care for the need for immediate help. It may seem that the individual doctor feels less responsible for caring for the obligation of immediate help in municipalities with many doctors. In large municipalities with daytime stationary medical services, the availability of immediate help is gratifying, according to the Health Authority. In 2002, the Health Authority was able to monitor the availability of day-to-day watch arrangements. The results were not satisfactory. Only in 43 pst. of which they had a direct contact with a doctor’s office that had been guarded. A new study carried out by the National Centre of Competence in Medical Medicine in 2006 showed that accessibility has improved. In 67 pst. of which they had a direct contact with a doctor’s office that had been guarded. In 2004, the National Centre of Competence for Medical Medicine was established in Bergen. The Centre shall conduct research and technical development and contribute to the building and dissemination of professional knowledge on municipal medicine. Studies from the Centre suggest that better availability of medical services, among others: must be seen in the context of the development of the fixed medical devices. Better daytime access to the caretaker has resulted in a decrease in the overall use of the medical caretaker. But I think it's interesting that about 50 pst. by those who seek medical attention, would like to wait for an hour at the hospital, if they had been sure that they were given the following hour. That means there's a bottleneck here. This means that there is still a job to do in getting to the doctor faster. It also means that even though the bodyguard works well in many places in the country, it doesn't do it everywhere. It is also the case, as the representative Nesvik points out, that some places in the country are waiting too long. I'm going to have a special focus in the current year on both the fixed medical system, in particular regarding availability and waiting time, and medical care systems, to make sure that it's well taken into account across the country that people shouldn't wait longer than they need when they need help. Finally, I would like to point out that the Social and Health Directorate has reinforced the requirement for municipalities to establish a well-organised medical watch system and to ensure good availability in the fixed medical system. We will develop professional standards for medical care in cooperation with the National Centre of Competence for Medical Medicine. So summed up it's very good, but it's still a lot done. I'm going, as I said, for the current year to have a special focus on doing this service with the people involved, and with the users, in an even better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2031	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which shows that it is quite obvious that the Council of States has a focus on this. It's very good, for many patients who feel this on the body, it actually feels like a great burden not to get on the medic. We also know that there is a lot to pick up on the organization side, because you get signals that some people because they have problems getting into their firm, actually use the medical system instead. Furthermore, the Council of State was committed to 67 p.m. got access when they called a doctor. Well, the big problem is that 33 pst. is not getting it – it is precisely where the problem lies. The Council of State says she will follow this up, but my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State also follow this up with the Medical Association, which is just the opposite of negotiation in these matters? On the one hand, we depend on getting good watch arrangements and cooperation arrangements, so that doctors too can do their job in a really good way, but on the other hand, we have the patient's interest that needs to be taken care of. Then the question to the Council of State is whether she will also take this up with the Medical Association, in order to get better conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2042	Yes, I can confirm that. I have already met with the Medical Association where this has been one of many themes that has already been discussed. So it'll be natural now that we go even deeper into that problem, that we talk a lot to them, that we talk a lot to those responsible for the services, and not least to user organisations. I can immediately say that although this is very good in many places, I fully agree with the representative Nesvik that it is not satisfactory enough, when we know that there are so many, after all, who have to wait too long to get settled in the first place. One doesn't get through on the phone, one has to wait too long to get in. Similarly, there is often longer waiting time for the medical guards, so this is going to be kind of a vicious circle. It has to be cleaned up, and at least I will contribute to the best I can, in cooperation with the actors we are going to talk to in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2049	Yes, it's quite obvious that there's a lot to pick up here, and I also think that just a dialogue with the user organisations, the medical association, the department and the directorate can help solve the node that has arisen here. Because we've seen through time that medical care has changed considerably. While the doctor before coming home to you to a great extent, it is expected today that the patient will go to the local medical centre to a great extent. There have obviously been changes, completely necessary changes, so there's no criticism of the way you do it, when I deal with this. But we see big differences in how many people are attached to the individual medical guards. In the area of Sunnmare from which I come, it varies quite from 60,000 attached to one medical guard to 2,000 to 3,000 attached to others. And of course, that leads to huge differences. It affects the population, which then has to wait, especially after shutting down at the medical offices and in e.g. flu periods. Will the Council consider whether there should be a regulatory framework related to the number of persons eligible for maximum medical attention?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2056	I will not answer absolutely to that today. Besides, I think it might be a bit difficult, as our country looks like it does. We have a lot of small municipalities, and some of them have very long distances. So it might be a little difficult, but I'm not going to have any locks on anything at this stage. I'm open to all the good suggestions as we go through this. I feel that we have a common goal, and that is to make availability even better. In the case of municipal medical officers, the municipalities are responsible for them, while we are responsible for the medical staff. So here we have to be in good dialogue with the municipalities, and that's what I'm up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2067	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «Cooperation management went to St.prp. No 1 in order to give people with a high level of assistance the right to receive personal assistance in the form of user-led assistance. [[2005-2006]] In response to the representative Bent Höie, dated 26 October 2005, the Council of State stated that she was satisfied with the proposal of the Cooperation Government and that this would be followed up with a consultation note with the first. It's been 1 1/2 years. When is the Council of State going to do something?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2076	The Government, through the Soria Moria Declaration, has stated that improvements should be made to the system of user-led personal assistance. Like Mr Solberg, I very much welcome this arrangement. As the representative refers to, I replied to the representative Bent Höie on 26 October 2005 that I was satisfied with the main content of the proposal of the outgoing government Bondevik, as outlined in St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006. I also informed that in the consultation note I would consider the details of the design of the provisions in more detail. Among other things, I would like to assess the scope of the service before giving the right to have the service organised in full or in part as user-driven personal assistance. I can inform the representative of Solberg that I am sticking to my previous reply to Bent Höie in this area. It is true, as the representative of Solberg points out, that the work on the consultation note has unfortunately taken longer than foreseen. I can inform you that we intend to send this out to the hearing now, before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2087	There are very many people who have a major need to help to participate in a social life, in a working life and to be able to handle their everyday tasks. User-driven personal assistance is among the measures that contribute to dignity, experience control in one’s own life, experience responsibility as a person and not just a beneficiary of assistance. There are important, valuable parts of the system of user-led personal assistance, or as the organisations themselves would prefer to call it: citizen-led assistance. I am amazed – not least because you said yes – that you have spent so long following up on this. But once I have the opportunity, I would like to ask the Council of State what her intentions are; when will any new law on this come into effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2094	First of all, I'm fully sharing the publicity Solberg has about the value of user-driven personal assistance, and what that means for people. I also mean, on behalf of the government I'm in, that it's very important that people have this choice. As I said, we're sending out the hearing notes now on this page of the summer vacation, and I'm not going to spend more time than is necessary – a three-month hearing, as is usual, and then comes a proposal to the Stortinget. It's a little dependent on how quickly the Storting can deal with it, but we have to be able to do this very quickly. So here we have to move very quickly. I can assure the representative of Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2101	It might be interesting to ask questions about why it has taken so long when the main principles, after all, were finished before this government joined. Was it because they were perceived as difficult to define? However, if they have been difficult to define, they must also be in the consultation note that comes. Is the definition going to be right?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2106	I feel no need to go into the reasons why this has unfortunately taken a little longer than I intended, but as I said, we are now right around the corner to send it out. Then we're going to put forward a proposal that will give more people this opportunity, and then the Storting will have enough opportunity to discuss its contents. And I'm very responsive to good suggestions to improve this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2115	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘I refer to written question No. On 23 February, 663 on less flexible and shorter opening hours for the Food Safety Authority and the problems which this has caused, inter alia, at the Kirkenes Terminal. The Council of State replied at the time that the matter was under investigation with a view to finding a solution. According to the information I have, the situation today is equally unresolved. What will the Council of State do in order to obtain an early clarification on the extension of the opening hours of the Food Authority, so that the commercial activities, including: in the churches, may again have acceptable framework conditions?"
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2124	Several aspects related to trade activities with Russia are relevant to Norwegian business. In particular, it concerns imports and exports of seafood and supplies of food from Russia to Russian vessels going to Norwegian ports. The common denominator is that these areas are affected by the rules on veterinary border inspection and the opening hours at border inspection posts. To the question from representative Aspaker, I would like to say in general that food management is constantly trying to facilitate schemes that do not interfere with business by carrying out veterinary border controls. The Food Authority has managed to establish a system in which Russian boats wishing to call at ports in Finnmark and Troms are still allowed to accept supplies that come with cars from Russia – a system that should have been abolished due to the rules on veterinary border controls. This scheme is important for both seafood and service industries in the northernmost counties. In this context, there is also reason to mention that the Food Authority has recently made significant efforts to maintain and facilitate the export of fish to Russia. As regards the question of opening hours, I would like to refer to my response of 2 March this year to the representative Aspaker's questions on the same topic. The Food Safety Authority was then in the process of assessing the nutritional, manpower and cost challenges facing food and nutrition in Troms and Finnmark. This assessment should be carried out in close cooperation with the organisations of the fisheries and aquaculture industries. The food inspection was completed a few days ago. I will now consider the Food Safety Authority's proposals for action with the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in order to arrive at the best overall solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2139	One gets the impression that what's a big question in the north is not quite as big a question in the south. I hear the minister say that it is a few days since the Food Agency had completed its assessments, but I know that the regional office delivered its report on 31 March. It's been over a month. The problems at the Kirkenes terminal started overnight on 1 February when they left and got less flexibility in dealing with the boats that came, and the cargo that was going to land. When you lose your living more or less overnight, and now, three months later, we still have no clarification on these questions, I wonder when the Minister of Agriculture thinks we can see an end to this. When will the Church Terminal know exactly what kind of framework conditions they have to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2148	First of all, I would like to reject the fact that big questions in the north are necessarily small in the south of this area. With regard to the recent efforts of the Food Authority in this sector, it has, as it is natural, been much about issues related to North Norway and our relationship with Russia. Ensuring the export of fish to Russia has been the main concern of the Food Authority in this area. The biggest issue for the fishing industry in North Norway is also linked to future market opportunities and the ability to sell their products. I think that's the situation, and it's a conscious priority in relation to a big and important thing like this. When it comes to the journey further, after I have now received the Food Safety Authority's assessments on my table, I guarantee that this will go quickly. Of course, I fully agree that obstacles to business of this kind with which it is possible to do something should be tried to land quickly. We should try to bring about changes that business can live with. I am therefore prepared to deal with this matter quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2157	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is quite right, as he says, that both the Norwegian Råfisk team and the Rural Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture are very concerned about finding good solutions to this. I would then challenge the Council of State here, because I understand that it is not really on the Food Authority's will to have longer opening hours, but that there is more to the question of money and the ability to actually finance the extended opening hours. In view of what's happening with regard to the whole North Region problem, I wonder if the Government believes that their large strategic bet area in the North, when it comes down to the concrete measures, should be free, that one should redispatch and put away other things to do more, whether it's at the Church Terminal or other places. I wonder if the minister can say whether he actually intends to put more money on the table to get a better service.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2164	If we want longer opening hours and an extended offer in these places, it is obvious that it costs money. That's part of this question. But the fact that it costs money doesn't mean we can't get it done. But of course, some of the assessments we make also go on the cost side and finding different solutions. It is the Food Authority and this government, of course, the duty to look at – as the government that once was part of Aspaker’s party would have done if the matter had been in force at the time. So not looking at what costs are in different solutions is not responsible for any question – neither here. But as I said, I think we're going to find a solution to this, and I'm going to find the solution quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-09.ana.ud250e2169	Then the ordinary question mark is over. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
