ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e33	Honourable co-representatives! Former PD Henrik Svensen passed away in August, at the age of 103. Henrik Svensen was born on 17 July 1904 in Askøy, Hordaland. He graduated from Artium in 1922 and graduated from the Legal Exam in 1926. After a period as a lawyer and a judge, he was employed as county councillor in 1931 in Bergen and Hordaland. In 1933 he became a secretary in the Ministry of Justice, and from 1938 he was a legal secretary to the financial adviser in Bergen. In 1945 he was appointed a law judge at Gulating Lawyers' Court, an office he held until 1961. Henrik Svensen represented Right in Bergen for three periods – from 1951 to 1961. In 1953 he was elected to Stortinget from Bergen. He was re-elected at the 1957 election. In the first period at Stortinget, he was a member of the Judicial Committee. As a lawyer, he found himself very well prepared in this committee, where he was also a secretary. From 1958 to 1961 he was chairman of the Military Committee and thus also a member of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee. During this great period, he was also a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and a member of the Governing Board of the Parliamentary Group of the Interparliamentary Union. There is no doubt that Henrik Svensen was going to make his greatest political effort as chairman of the military committee. He skillfully led the committee's work and argued vigorously for a strengthening of the country's defence at a time when the cold war made defence policy a far more dominant political theme than it is easy to imagine today. Henrik Svensen followed up his defence exposure even after the time at Stortinget. From 1962 to 1966 he was president of the Norwegian Defence Association. When Henrik Svensen was appointed a law judge in Eidsivating in January 1961, he resigned to Stortinget. However, he did not enter his new post, since he was appointed to the county of East Agder in June of the same year, a post he had until he left with a pension in 1974. Bergenseren Henrik Svensen had no problem identifying himself with his new state, and in a short time became a very respected county in all parts of the county. He also chose to stay in East Agder after he retired. Henrik Svensen was a person with clear opinions and with intent to falsify these with strength and consistency, but he always combined these qualities with the correctness of the official and the sense of fair play. Henrik Svensen was a political gentleman both in appearance and in action. We bring peace to Henrik Svensen's memory. Former prime minister Elsa Kobberstad died in July of this year, almost 89 years old. Elsa Kobberstad was born on 21 July 1918 in Narvik. She graduated from Artium in 1938 and took the teacher's school degree at Tromsø Teacher's School in 1941. In 1942, she graduated from Staten School of Housekeeping at Stabekk, Bærum. She began her professional career as a teacher in Narvik and then acted as a teacher both in Oslo and in Horten. In the period 1956-1969 she was a teacher at Narvik School again. Elsa Kobberstad was elected as a member of Narvik Municipal Council from 1959 and remained in office until 1979. In the period 1971-1975 she was a member of the chairmanship of Narvik. She was a member of the Nordland county and county committee for two periods, from 1975 to 1983. In local policy, Elsa Kobberstad was primarily concerned with school policy issues and social policy and care for the elderly. Her social policy commitment was expressed in active efforts for the Red Cross, both in Horten and Narvik. Elsa Kobberstad was strongly concerned with increasing the social awareness and active participation of women. This commitment already began in the Horten discussion association, where she was chairman in 1953-1954. Later, Høyrefinners Landsförbund became her main arena — both regional and national. She was chairman of the Nordland Höjrekvinner for eleven years, from 1977 she was second vice president of the Höjrekvinners Landsförbund, and from 1979 to 1983 she was associated with the first vice president. In 1983 she was appointed an honorary member of the Hojrekvinners Landsförbund. In the years as a member of the Presidency College of the Federation, she was also a member of the central government of the Right. In the periods 1973-1977 and 1977-1981, Elsa Kobberstad was alternate to the Stortinget for the Nordland county, elected by the Right. She met several times at Stortinget in these years. In 1981, she was elected as a permanent representative. She already gave up after a period, but nevertheless she had done a number of things over the four years. With her background as a teacher, she was very pleased to join the Church and Education Committee. At the same time, as a representative of the Nordic countries, she was actively involved in issues that were particularly important for North Norway in general: district policy and transport policy. She was, both inside and outside the Stortinget, an expedient spokeswoman for the development possibilities of the county and district. She combined in an excellent way firmness in opinions and healthy reputation with a friendly being. We bring peace to Elsa Kobberstad's memory. Former Major Thor Gystad died on June 15, this year, almost 88 years old. Thor Gystad was born and raised in Ullensaker and lived there his whole life. At an early age, he joined the organization, and he was already 30 years old elected to Ullensaker's Board of Directors for the Workers' Party. Throughout his working life he was employed in the Norwegian State Railways. He was employed as a telegraphist in 1939 and went the degrees via the railway dispatcher to the railway agent. After the election in 1959 he was elected rapporteur in Ullensaker, a position he had until he was elected to the Parliament in 1969. From 1964 to 1969 he was the first rapporteur of the county of Akershus. As rapporteur and rapporteur-general, he completed his full-time job in the NSB. Thor Gystad spent three periods on the Stortinget, until he left with retirement in 1981. At Stortinget he was a member of the Financial Committee and of the Transport Committee. He was a United Nations delegate in 1973 and was a member of the Great Britain delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly both in 1978 and 1981. Gystad was one of the very few who has been both rapporteur, rapporteur and representative of the county. He had a number of jobs locally, regionally and centrally, among others. he sat about. 30 years in the Board of Directors of the Norwegian Municipal Bank. Thor Gystad was a solid and tidy believer and politician. To Astrid’s wife, their daughters, grandchildren and great - grandchildren, he was primarily a dear and beloved family man. For others, he was a respected and committed model. We bring peace to Thor Gystad's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e93	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e96	It is an honour for me to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and myself on better framework conditions for students who have children in their studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e101	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e113	The President requests a new member of the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e116	I have the honour to propose Lars Peder Breck.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e123	Lars Peder Breck has been proposed as a new member of the election committee after Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. – Other proposals are not available, and Lars Peder Breck is unanimously elected as a new member of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e139	The first speaker is Morten Ørsal Johansen, on behalf of the President-in-Office, Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e142	We know that there is a great under-reporting of profit-criminality such as this. minor thefts. There may be several reasons for this. One of the reasons is that the cases are closed or that they are not being investigated. Another reason might be that people simply don't want to take the trouble of reporting a minor theft, because when they go down to the police station or the county office, they find that the police station or the county office is actually closed and they don't have opening hours adapted to people at work. Denmark took the consequences of this and established a web portal where one could report minor crimes, i.e. petty thefts and winning crimes, on the Internet. This has been a success, a success that Norway should follow. There is a work under way in the Police Directorate, which has made a three-stage progress plan, the final phase of which expires in 2009. The National Audit Office has asked a number of questions about the ‘online police’ project, including: issues relating to costs and progressing in the project. The Progress Party believes that the police should be in the forefront of using new technologies, and not among the last to use them. It is important to put in place a cost overview of the project, and not least to get ahead of it, which should not be particularly difficult, as solutions are already available on the market today, solutions that the Danish police have implemented and, as I said, use great success. I don't think the Danes will be very unwilling to share their competences in that area with Norway. The Progress Party and the Right believe that it should be possible to have a fully-fledged electronic notification system for minor crimes up and down in 2008, because this is something that is actually urgent, so that we can have such crimes reported and not least investigated. In view of this, the representative will address the proposals made by the minority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e158	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e161	Proposalers address an important issue in order to streamline and develop solutions that make it easier for the public to report minor offences. But at the same time I record that the opposition again opens the doors. The development of technological solutions that make it easier for the public to use public services, not just the police, is a high priority of this government, and the proposals put forward by the proposers are already in the process of being implemented. In fact, I think that the rapporteurs are not going far enough in Document No. His 8 proposal. Many people claim that the Internet is a new public space playing out serious crime. The large number of child abuse images circulating online, the pedophile’s attempts to get in touch with children through chat channels — and other types of crime that have emerged through the Internet — show this. That is why this government has set up its own police station online. The police shall systematically patrol the net. We also follow the proposal of the Faremo committee to establish an easily identifiable Internet button that users of chat channels can use if they experience unwanted approaches or other undesirable behaviour, and have started working with the organisers of the chat channels in this regard. This is how children and young people chatting online come in direct contact with the police. This is important both for the prevention of abuse and for the detection of attempts to commit abuses against children and young people. As I said, the work on facilitating electronic police reports is already under way. In the autumn, the public can download notification forms for simple matters from the police.no. The form is printed, then filled in by insults, and delivered to the police. The next phase, starting in 2008, aims to facilitate the electronic delivery of notifications. However, if these electronic solutions are to be of value to the police and provide an improvement in efficiency, organisational changes in the police districts must also be put in place, and this is what we are doing. This will apply to simple crimes, and we also see that you can report simple matters at the same time as submitting a claim to the insurance company, for example. At the same time, it is important to stress that more serious conditions still need to be notified as they are today, as there will be a need for more and more specific information. Overall, this will provide more public-friendly access to reporting simple issues, we will ensure that the more serious issues are dealt with more thoroughly, and when organisational changes are in place in the police districts, this will clearly also provide a resource and efficiency gain for the police. As far as electronic signatures are concerned, this will probably not be required in order to deliver a notification via the Internet, but in terms of proposals for simplifying e-signatures to Minside and Altinn, I will also show here that the Government is at the forefront. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration is in the process of finalising a strategy for the use of electronic identifiers and signatures with and in the public sector, and the Government has proposed to grant 20 million. kr in the State budget just submitted for the development of an electronic public sector ID. We want an end to the pin code chaos that meets users of public services on the Internet, and intensifies through this work to put in place a common electronic solution. The government's goal is a more visible and effective police force. We facilitate increased accessibility and public service, among others. by working on electronic submissions of simpler reviews, and not least we are working to provide the police with tools to combat new forms of crime, such as the Internet-related.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e178	Crime AS in Norway is a growth industry and, to this extent, the police budget of the year is probably the most targeted and active industrial policy instrument that this government has developed – in that sense – when looking at the lack of action to address the acute recruitment crisis in the Norwegian police sector and where the longer-term approach to increasing the number of classes at the Police College can only be hoped to have an effect in three years’ time. But I'll leave it. In this case, we record a somewhat counter-productive – if I interpret the committee leader a little positively – but a kind of open attitude to using new technology, to make the police more accessible to the public and prevent under-reporting. It is positive, but as the case-rapporteur, from the Advancement Party, was involved, one could have preferred to stand a little more on and realized this faster and more cash. In the context of the Right previous proposal – I think we made proposals about a police station online almost two years ago to prevent child abuse – we are very positive that this is now being put in place, and it will be exciting to see what the effect of this work is. When it comes to using new technologies, which are no longer so new, we should be in the front line, and there should not be a difference between Norway and Denmark at that point. It would have been good to hope that the government parties could vote for today, since these open doors are being opened – but the government has not implemented what the proposals are about. Then I register that this is not how the world works, with a majority rule. A majority would like to repeat the suggestions of others, so that they seem to come up with the good ideas themselves. But it's allowed to hope that it will appear, perhaps, in some form, where the Minister of Justice will promote it as his own thoughts, in the same way that we happily establish several regional Barna's House, after our proposals on it were also voted down earlier in the Stortinget. But although the proposals here today are being voted on, I take it for granted that it signals a will to open up these proposals when the Government once finds it too good. The fact that we don't go far enough: the committee leader can go far in supporting the proposals and will also interpret them a little wider, with the limits she outlined. No matter how unanimous one is about a police station online, I have to say that with the emphasis on police station online to prevent child abuse, and the balance in relation to what this proposal is about, it may have been an advantage to spend more time on profit crime and the crime we want to prevent here, in addition to a police station online to prevent child abuse – that is not what this proposal is all about. So a little bit more balance in the interpretations of what the opposition means and does not mean could be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e191	Initially, I would like to stress what also the committee leader, Bjørnfacen, was about, that the goal of Regeringa is a more visible and more effective police force. The debate we have here today is definitely about some of the tools we can put in place to get a more effective police force. We will facilitate increased accessibility and public service both through the co-location of public service offices and through the use of Internet-based solutions. Simple and secure solutions for the electronic submission of notifications are a measure that the police are already working on. The audience meets the police in many ways, but reporting is one of the most important meetings we have between the population and the police. However, there is reason to distinguish between reporting, sending tips to the police and providing a formal report. Delivering a formal notification is a serious act. For the individual it is actually a serious decision to report a matter, not only because it may have consequences for the person being notified, but also for other persons, but also because the notifier may commit a criminal offence in the event of false or incorrect notification. When one goes to it and reports a relationship, one also expects the police to take the matter seriously and follow up the relationship through the necessary investigation and possible criminal response. It is important to be aware of this when we set up new mechanisms and methods to report after, because signaling out to the population and the audience the seriousness of that action is still a job we have to do. The police get many reviews, both serious and less serious – issues that are at the limit of loss messages. Part of the basis for the low clearance percentage, inter alia: in the case of winning crimes, it may be necessary to apply there. Serious reviews, e.g. An immediate investigation is required. This presupposes that the police have the relevant information as early as possible. In serious cases, in terms of life and health, but also high values or more complicated conditions, the police are therefore dependent on a comprehensive and detailed report and, to this extent, also an explanation from the notifier. In these cases, an electronic notification will not be as suitable. It will also be that those who report may need to tell their story in a different way than to sit at home and write messages over the Internet. Therefore, there will be less serious offences reported electronically. The circumstances should be assessed by experience. I see that the proposers have drawn up their list. That is one of the reasons why I think it is something early today to vote in favour of the proposals made by the rapporteurs. Another reason, of course, is that this is a work that is going on. The notification of serious offences will be difficult to implement in an electronic form, while it is important for the police through contact with the notifier to be able to clarify the situation sufficiently and quickly enough to prioritize and implement any immediate investigation. On the issue of the notification, I would like to say that the Government of the submitted state budget has taken a very important step by extending the aid lawyer system for many groups. We also do so in such a way that the law of aid comes into force before the notification is made, so that one can actually have a conversation with a lawyer about how to proceed in the serious cases covered by the aid law. This is perhaps a very important proposal in relation to strengthening the interaction between the police and the public in the matters that I know a total accumulation has been particularly concerned with: rape, trafficking in human beings, issues of violence in close relations, etc. The Directorate of Police is now working on systems for receiving notification electronically. It has already been established that a simple notification form can now be downloaded from the police website, that it can be completed and printed. Thereafter, the form must be signed and delivered or sent in ordinary mail to the police. In the second phase, we aim to facilitate that forms can be filled out using dialog boxes. At this stage, one will also look at the possibility of submitting the notification electronically. But more conditions need to be clarified before this can happen. As regards electronic signature, this is unlikely to be required in order to deliver a notification via the Internet. This needs to be clarified, however, inter alia. in cooperation with the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration has put forward proposals for a strategy for electronic identification and signature for the public sector to be consulted, and one is now reviewing these consultation opinions. Departments will then coordinate further progress when considering, inter alia, the following: consultation opinions. One does not expect this to delay police work on facilitating electronic notifications. In the third phase, a solution will be considered where the notification is submitted electronically and in such a way that the data are imported directly into police computer systems. This will simplify police procedures and could be further developed into a cross-cutting solution in cooperation with, for example, the police. insurance corporations and banks. This may facilitate the public to report theft to the police through the same form and in the same despatch and inform the insurance company or the bank of the loss. However, it must be emphasised that this requires some legal clarification before it can be implemented. Implementation of phase three is likely to contribute to more efficient and resource-saving police practices, while meeting the need for a more effective overview of criminal offences. By ensuring that offences can be more easily reported and registered, the police could have a better basis for working in a targeted and resource-efficient way. The Internet plays an increasingly important role for adults and children. The representative Bjørnflaten was involved in the work that the Government is now doing specifically for children and young people, and also related to the Internet abuse images. Many people establish contact via the network, some without being aware of or taking into account the risks involved. This was one of the reasons why the Government promoted the proposal for the so-called grooming paragraph. The right-wing representative, André Dahl, may well find it difficult to take credit for the grooming initiative. Either way, we're happy to have this adopted by the Government. In order to prevent and respond to Internet-related child abuse, a police station is established online. This allows Internet users to report directly to the police in the form of a clearly visible red button on the website. And as the Storting is familiar with, it's already set at $6 million. kr to such a police station online. This is a follow-up to the Faremo Committee’s proposal – a selection that the Government put down and that was the government’s initiative. Kripos is in the start-up phase of this, in close cooperation with network providers. Effective handling of electronic notifications and, in particular, the proposed alerting possibilities in case of suspicion of Internet-related child abuse will require sufficient reception capacity and competence. There is reason to believe that the amount of enquiries to the police will increase, while there is a expectation of rapid response by using electronic communications. One thing is to discuss the question of quick notification and notification, another thing is actually to make sure that the device that is to accept it is ready for it and effective in establishing matters and good communication with the reporter. The introduction of new electronic solutions and the further development of existing ones will have certain administrative and therefore also economic consequences. In particular, in phase three, full electronic submission of simple notifications, there is a need to explore complexity and investment needs. The preliminary project has been completed, and the Directorate of Police is now starting work on developing the solutions. One prerequisite for this is that the network solutions are generally rebuilt so that the heavy functionality to which they are added can handle the solutions. The aim is the first launch in the summer of 2008 and, if possible, the online notification at the end of 2008/beginning of 2009. Finally, Dahl, the representative, is constantly coming back to the idea and initiative of establishing children’s homes in Norway. I have experience from the Stortinget in the last period, where we in the Judicial Committee had good dialogue with the government at that time about this. I think I've said it from this pulpit before: I have difficulty seeing that the idea, the initiative and the drive for the children's houses was in the Right. Why, then, were they not created in the previous period? If someone is going to have the credit for the idea of babysitting and for driving that matter forward, I will focus first of all on Redd Barna. I would also like to say with all due respect that it was really SV who ran the case very much the previous big period. If there is one difference in how to reward those who are now establishing children's homes around the whole country, based on political dividing lines, it must be that it is the current government that actually grants money to it and opens up children's homes now in the autumn, two pieces. We have proposed to establish three to next year, and we registered that the previous government did not establish anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e227	Governments had a good explanation and a good introduction to the project reviews online. We've come a long way in serious crimes, and being able to go in and report and give tips, among other things. on child pornography. That's where we're at the forefront, and that's great. It's an incredibly important area. What we're talking about here, and what the proposal is about, are small crimes and winning crimes that most people don't want to report, because they know it's not going to be done. They know that spending a lot of time, among other things. working time, to do this, has nothing to do with it. The project is, as was said, divided into three phases, with a finalisation in 2009. As I said in my introduction, the National Audit Office has asked major questions about both costs and progress. My question is to the Council of State now: Can the Council of State guarantee that this project has been completed in 2009? Will it be so that this is up and going in 2009, or it will be in 2010, 2011, etc.? The proposal also proposes the offences to be reported. These are crimes committed by the Danish police on their websites, and this works very well. I do not know if the Danish Police Council and the Police Directorate have been in contact with the Danish police about this, and ask if it is possible to get information and tips from the Danish police about how they do it. The Danish police have managed to implement it in a good way, and it has worked for a few years in Denmark. Why are we not going to be able to make it quite quickly in Norway? We have to spend an incredible number of years to get it done, which the Danes managed very easily, very well – and it turns out to work. My question to the Council of State will then finally be: Can he guarantee that this will come up and go in 2009, or is the concerns of the National Audit Office justified?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e240	We've had a small colloquial group in the centermates, the Left and Christian People's Party. Let's just say that we experience it so that there are no great tensions in this debate between majority and minority, and we don't want to put it in it either. We're going to vote for the minority proposal, but we're not putting anything into it in the negative sense of the majority's willingness to find a solution. But it's the law of opposition to be poachers. That, I think, is a division of roles. I took the word primarily for the sake of the archives, to say it like this. Since history is part of my profession, we're told that it's quite right as the State Council of the Great Mountains says, that there are many who shared the idea of Barna's House. Both the representative Syversen, Christian People's Party, and the representative Dørum, Left, former Minister of Justice, have been to Iceland and seen Barna's House in good time, and the work was started. So I think you're just going to describe it so that this is one of the conditions in Norwegian policy where people actually have a pretty all right common perception of getting to something. Then there's been a debate later on on how fast it's going. It's okay. When it comes to grooming, it's quite right that the work started earlier. For my part, in an earlier phase of my life, I was concerned with e.g. The experience of the police in Trondheim had been in cooperation with the municipality and the Church's Bymition, and we also had experience from the United Kingdom. So it's absolutely right that there's also a point where more people have been involved in raising something. And then both of these areas are some areas of Norwegian policy where the parties have a lot of common access points, and I think that's right to say that. No one should be made less of this, no one should be made bigger. Everyone should be allowed to participate in a construction work that is jointly traveled, when areas are about something as vulnerable as kids. It does so in both cases, both in the grooming section and when it comes to getting to Barna's House.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e249	It is important that we do not make major political debates and create disagreements about what we really agree on, namely that it is important to combat child abuse, and that it is important to get grooming paragraphs in place and children's homes in place as much as possible. That's why I think it's useful for history that former government council Dørum explained what the former government parties did in minority positions. At the same time, there is also reason, like the Council of State, to give honey to the Red Children. Because the Red Children have been enormously powerful drivers of everything we're really discussing today that has nothing to do with questions we're really going to deal with today, but it's good to mention anyway, once the Council corrects the description of reality, that the Red Children have been drivers. So it's Redd Barna, who was a proponent, who found it necessary to make proposals in 2006 to increase the pressure against the Government, so that we were sure that we got regional Barna's House, which is now fortunately in place. So the scared children were the same ones that were frustrated when it took too long. But now it's in place. Both the one and the other can fight for the honor of being a father or a mother, or what it's all about, but the most important thing is that it's the child and the children it's about, that the children's houses are viable, and become, thanks to the measures that came into place. Then, of course, I will also praise the Council of State for setting the goal of Regional Barna's House, after voting against it. But it has something to do with our governance system, that one would like to make the good proposals even in budgets, etc. And I understand that. We might have done the same thing, we would have been in government ourselves, but at least it's a happy day for all the kids who haven't had an offer yet. I want to give credit for that. And then I still hope that the Council of State may be more open than I perceive him to be in relation to the committee leader, in terms of the Progress Party and the rapporteur's reference here in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e259	I promise full openness. I believe that the posts both from the committee manager and from me instead were as open as they could be. We told you what we're going to do, and we also told you what kind of ambition we've attached to time. I remember the representative Ørsal Johansen's wish to get ahead of this. I will not give a guarantee of when, but just refer to what I said about having an ambition to put this in place in 2008, and the third phase towards the end of 2008/beginning of 2009. If I am to give a guarantee about something, it must be that we should follow up this work and stay close to it, so that we get quick results from it. Of course, when it comes to the issue of the Nordic aspect, we learn a lot from what our Nordic neighbouring countries contribute. We will also do that in this case, because in a lot of the field of justice, we can save a lot of research by cooperating more at Nordic level. We had a Nordic Minister of Justice meeting in our home where some of this was a topic, so that this is also discussed at ministerial level. I have invited my colleagues in the Nordic region to a meeting in Oslo on 4 December, where, among other things, the issue of Internet-related abuse should be the focus, also the question of the possibility to respond via a red button, which I have been faced with, which tangs this proposal. But I would like to signal that we are responding to Ørsal Johansen's wish that we should reap from the experience that we have had in Denmark, in a proper way. We will also be able to address this as a separate topic when we meet in Oslo as early as December.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e266	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e274	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e282	In Case No. 1 decision was taken before the Stortinget went to the handling of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e290	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-09.ana.ud2555e330	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the end of the meeting? – The meeting has been cancelled
