ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-02.ana.ud53e619	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! This year's census reports that the government will send a lot of cases to treatment in the Storting. I'm sure the Stortinge's ability to treat these in a good way for the country. Fortunately, our Parliament is designed to find solutions rather than to construct disagreements. However, it is important to stress that in a democracy there is a need for a strong debate and a critical opposition. We usually get the good solutions if those who have the majority listen to more than themselves. The role of the media and the opposition is inter alia: to monitor the Government’s compliance with its promises. There will always be something to put your finger on. But with more thought, it has struck me to what extent different governments have followed up the main lines of what they promised. The languages of the throne bear the same command; the things that were promised to take priority are raised. Since it has been a priority task for all the later governments, I think we in this room will feel a relief if the four-year period can end by stating that we had something noticeable done for those who are poor or otherwise have it difficult. This is a moral imperative in a country as rich as Norway. When the 152nd rise opens, we just have behind us the UN's extraordinary summit on climate change. The strong line in the belief that the Government wants Norway to be a leading country in climate policy will have broad support in the United Kingdom. Our efforts at home are a prerequisite for having a positive impact on international climate negotiations. We politicians are probably facing the greatest leadership responsibility ever. But there are clear similarities to the building of the welfare state that also required strong backbone and willingness to make choices. When the Minister of Finance stood here in Stortingen after the war and told us that we could not import cars until we had enough bricks and cement to build the country, he could appeal to the common sense. That's how we have to do it today as well. If we believe that the environment must come first, it must come first, and we have a responsibility to explain to people that we cannot get both parts; we cannot get both a better environment and at the same time continue to pollute. But road choices are more demanding than in building the welfare state. The results were then relatively rapid in the form of housing, education, health services and jobs appreciated by people. The cars were also after every public meeting. The necessary measures to save the globe from heat will not produce noticeable results so quickly, it will not only be about postponing something, we have to refrain from getting something, we have to change the way we've been used to living. We who live now must be willing to implement measures that may initially be unpopular, in order to achieve a popular goal in the future. That is why the fight against climate change appeals to the heart of the idea of solidarity: the will to sacrifice something for others, in this case people who have not yet been born. The project of democracy is information and progress, and leadership responsibility is not just, not primarily, running after what is popular right now. Then we can wake up one day and hear people ask why we didn't do the right thing – at the right time. This is the privilege of the people. People can protest against changes and, by choice, prevent them from happening, but yet they can deport us at the next crossroads so that we did not act. As elected representatives, we must seek the knowledge necessary to lead and to be forebears and forebears. That's why we're chosen, and that's the responsibility each generation will measure us by. The form of this Chamber is an important reminder that equality and cohesion are the basis of our parliamentary activity. We're looking for geography, as representatives of a district, but we're still rich politicians who are expected to find unifying solutions. Therefore, we are also in the circle, in the same way that the Eidsvollsmen stood in circles and held each other in their hands when they had agreed on the Basic Law, and could end with the words: "Consistence and faith to Dovre falls!" Of course, it seems that you should be able to use some of the words that you have measured in such a speech to say it, but there is still some of the most important things that can be said: that we must never forget how well we have in this country. The gauges can be many. In these days Burma may be. There's no ringing in the crowds holding each other's hands, because the elected people are either killed or thrown into prison. This is unfortunately the brutal reality in many places in the world. It is my hope that our greatness continues to express what our broken people on both sides of the Dovre have always stood up against: overpower, violence, injustice. That's how we got our independence. Now we have to hold hands of all those who are fighting for democracy and human rights in the world. Assuming that the representatives see it as President John F. Kennedy in his day said, “our problems are created by men and can therefore be solved by men,” we gather in the old and important desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-02.ana.ud53e659	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
