ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e38	The representative, Kari Lise Holmberg, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e41	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Kristian Foss, Bent Höie, Cathrin Bretzeg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a comprehensive refugee and migration policy with a particular focus on developments within my own country, the action room of Norway and the development of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e46	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e60	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers for each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e67	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good account of the EU and EEA issues in question this autumn. This statement is the second one in the series following the examination of the European Communication in ours, where proposals for such half-yearly presentations were also unanimously supported. There has been a slight adjustment: In the spring session the comments from the parties came as a reflection right after the presentation, now we have had opportunities for reflection for a few days – with the opportunity to involve more. From the Labour Party we have therefore also wanted to involve our members in this debate from the committees responsible for the subject areas in question. The aim of the European Communication and the setting here in Stortinget was, of course, to involve more people in a more open, coordinated and active influence and influence on EU/EEA matters in the early stages of the process. This could be better taken care of by Norwegian national interests, but could also provide opportunities for input into the EU, not to say Europe, joint development, because this will ultimately affect our own development in Norway. In the follow-up to the European Communication and the Settings, it is the responsibility of both the Government, the Stortinget and the party groups. Let me therefore briefly mention that, at yesterday's group meeting, the Labour Party decided that we should appoint EU/EEA leaders from among our members in each committee, which is to constitute an enlarged EU/EEA fraction. Furthermore, measures were proposed for closer contact with our party group in the European Parliament. Norway’s main link to the EU in the last 14 years has been the EEA Agreement. The agreement, with its limitations, has worked well and has given Norway access to the internal market and a level playing field for trade and economic relations in Europe. The EU is a partner and a crucial area for Norway and the Norwegian economy. However, the EEA Agreement means that we are not at all places, that we are often late in the process, and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, there are questions about the ability of the agreement to meet new challenges and areas of cooperation. There is a consequence of not being a member of the EU, which the Labour Party is basing on. Within this framework, an active European policy is needed. A new EU reform treaty is in place. It is necessary to analyse its importance for the development of EU cooperation and for Norwegian policies in relation to the EU and the EEA. However, let me say that I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we are served by the functioning of EU cooperation, because EU policy now intervenes in all aspects of Norwegian society, including those which have traditionally been domestic policies, as we write in the position of the European Communication. I would like to see the EU's capacity to act in the field of foreign policy strengthened as a result of the Treaty, because I share the value base of the EU's foreign policy commitment. Norway must continue a close dialogue with the EU in the field of foreign and security policy and on security policy in a broad perspective. I was so lucky to be here as a guest at the Nordic Council's session last week. All policy areas are now being discussed here, and countries that are members of the EU but are not members of NATO, non-EU NATO member countries, and countries that are both members are participating. The basic thing is that this is a common Nordic position, with opportunities for convergence of interests also in a European perspective. I mention the Nordic welfare model and the northern dimension, including climate and environment. I think this is an exciting development. The Minister for Foreign Affairs suggested that the Treaty could involve new legislation more quickly by increasing the use of majority decisions. This will be an additional challenge for the impact of the alienation. It is positive that national parliaments should be involved in the work on new legislation in the past. Here we should consider whether anything can be adapted to Norway’s position and Norwegian circumstances, so that the Stortinget also has the opportunity to record at an early stage of the process. Of course, the Labour Party supports the Foreign Minister's assessments of the specific issues and disciplines he addressed in his presentation. However, I also refer to the views and comments of our members on various committees later in the debate on climate and environment, maritime policy and Schengen and Prüm cooperation. Let me just give a general reflection on these issues: we share the same common basic positions or objectives with the EU in these areas, despite the variation in concreteisation. Today, we have a major labour market in the EEA area, which has gradually benefited us in Norway. Several tens of thousands of people from EEA countries are working in Norway today because we have a great need for labour. Many people have organized pay and employment, but too many do not. We must avoid the emergence of a group of workers with lower pay levels and lower working conditions than we accept for Norwegian workers. The government has an offensive attitude here and has implemented several measures to combat social dumping. This must be followed up. But there is no doubt that the fight against social dumping must also be waged in the European arena, as part of our foreign policy. It is important that Norway supports the social dialogue in Europe, an area where we have great experience, competence and good results to point to. We need to ensure cross-border cooperation and exchange of experience. I am therefore particularly pleased that next year's government has earmarked funding for the social partners to promote social dialogue and cooperation with the parties of the new EU countries in Central Europe. The expansion of the EEA territory this year to include the new EU countries Romania and Bulgaria was important in order to ensure a single internal market. Norway will contribute large amounts to achieving economic and social development in the new EU countries. The new financial instrument related to the inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria was that half of the funds were to go to bilateral cooperation programmes, directly managed by Norway. The programmes provided for cooperation projects with Norwegian actors. With reference to the importance of the social dimension and the social dialogue, I would like to stress the social partners' target group. The EEA financial instruments are a prerequisite for participation in the EU's internal market in line with the EU's own Member States. The financial instruments shall be renegotiated during the current maturity period. My challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be whether one here can achieve equivalent management and include the social dimension as an objective and social partners as a target group for the development of cooperation relations with all the new EU countries. I also do not ignore cooperation between other civil society organisations. I believe that strong organisations and cooperation between the social partners in the labour market will be positive for each country's social and economic development and prevent social dumping. I record on the list of speakers that there are far more people today involved in the debate on EU/EEA matters than at the previous presentation. We can therefore note that some intermediate targets from the treatment of the European message have already been met. The debate on matters has come from the EEA Public Space Committee, and more from different professional committees are involved. It's a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e103	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e106	Under the heading ‘So close, yet so distant’, the evening post in the executive position comments on yesterday’s statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I quote: ‘With a broad pen, he concluded that Norway’s role in Europe is limited to responding to initiatives coming from the EU, and that as a starting point, we can do what we can to safeguard Norwegian interests.’ The description of the evening post corresponds essentially to our reaction to the conclusion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement. Is the Workers' Party comfortable with such a defensive approach to European policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e118	It is a reality that developments in the EU will have an impact on very many areas of domestic policy in Norway. There shall be no doubt as to the primary position of the Workers’ Party as to the fact that membership would have served our best interests, but the Soria Moria Declaration states that EU membership is not on the agenda today and that it is the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement that are our primary lines of contact with the EU. I think it is a little strange that the Right Representative accuses us of having a passive attitude, all the time when the previous government, where the Right was sitting, was apparently criticised both by the Riksrevision and by the State Consultant that they did not take advantage of the opportunities provided by the EEA Agreement. It is now trying to correct this government by having an active European policy which has been unanimously endorsed here in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e125	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e128	Climate and environmental policy were very key issues in the Foreign Minister’s presentation. In my speech, I would like to focus on that and refer some of the other issues, which are also important, to subsequent contributions from the representatives of the Progress Party. I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a presentation that addresses many important issues, many key issues. When one discusses the environment and climate in this context, it is not because one necessarily discusses the goals of the Government. They're important. The Progress Party is also concerned about resolving the problems. But one is a little bit more concerned about the way the government has handled some of these questions. In fact, they appear to be quite bleakly handled. It seems that it has taken very lightly on the challenges, there has been a kind of dream factory that has come with great ambitions and big goals that this government and Norway are now to become world champion in almost all areas. But in terms of implementation, the government has not taken into account the world society in which we live, and the rules that we are imposed by the EEA Agreement. Then it really seems quite pointless to appear to be the great, ambitious master, when one does not live in the world of reality. I'll take care of it, among other things. the climate allowance law and the purchase of developing country allowances. Mongstad and CO2 cleaning illustrate this very well. I expected the Foreign Minister to explain where the process of the industrial power regime now stands and where the process of repatriation stands. These are issues that are highly related to the theme of the presentation. There are issues that the government has not solved in any way, but it has created great expectations that they will be solved in a very good way. In the opposition they said that it was very easy to solve them, if they just got power. Then it is a little special that both the industrial power regime and the fall-back are bypassed in silence. I look forward to the negotiations in Bali. There are significant weaknesses in the Kyoto agreement that need to be improved. As the Prime Minister has also said several times, among others. to the national meeting of the Labour Party, there is a serious weakness in the Kyoto Agreement that only 36 out of 172 countries have restrictions on their emissions. This means that a new agreement needs to have a much broader form of commitment to avoid what has been the criticism of Kyoto by the Progress Party, namely that one within the agreement can only move emissions from countries with restrictions to countries with no restrictions. It means a turn of economic activity, but it does not mean a profit for the environment at all — rather, on the contrary. What is also a consequence of today's Kyoto agreement is that it contributes to building China into an economic centre of power – a development that is not easy to reverse, and which one does not believe is desirable either, given that welfare states, major powers, must have a significant degree of industry in their own country in order to be credible. I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not mention the challenges that now exist in relation to Kyoto, where among other things. Canada expressed doubts as to whether they would comply with the agreement, and where England has recently concluded and said that they are unlikely to achieve the EU's renewable energy objectives, which are an important part of the EU's compliance with the Kyoto agreement. So I recommend to the Norwegian delegation in Bali to focus on realistic solutions when they negotiate, rather than high-flying ambitions that only oil-rich nations that Norway can afford to meet. Then the Foreign Minister was much within the EU quota system, and he said it was very good with the EU quota system. And I agree. When the EU quota system is initially so good, it is quite incomprehensible that Norway spends so much time negotiating relatively marginal strange adjustments. Now, less than two months before the quota trade is due to enter into force, many Norwegian companies still do not know what framework conditions they have to deal with. An example is the gas power plant on Kårstø. Do they get free allowances, or do they not get free allowances? That's two more months! The difference between a yes or a no there is up to 200 million. kr per year. I think that natural force had thought it was very good to get a clarification, and I challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of Oil and Energy to come up with an explanation of this, because it has a little bit of predictability. One cannot only complain that the EU has not completed its rules in sufficient time to meet the Government’s ambitions, when the Norwegian Government is unable to have its rules clear enough for Norwegian business to have predictability. Why does a new business want to be treated more closely in Norway than in the EU? In its report on REACH, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that Norwegian industry should have the same framework conditions as its competitors in the EU. In terms of chemical policy, a level playing field is required. As far as CO2 policy is concerned, this government has deliberately opted for a stricter approach in Norway than in the EU. No free allowances shall be allocated to industry established in Norway after 2001. This is completely across EU policies. This shifts industry out of Norway but does not reduce globally. One example is NorFra Kalk, who delivers to a global market. If NorFra Kalk doesn't deliver, the other will take over that delivery. There are probably factories that have more emissions than NorFra Kalk would have had. So one says, it's not to allocate free allowances. This will give an incentive for an investor to invest in new, better technology. NorFralk is a brand new factory that has not yet been opened. It is already invested in the best technology available, but without free allowances they get such a significant extra cost that others will compete with them without any problems. Then it must be a challenge for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when he talks about how great the EU's quota system is, to ensure that Norwegian industry is allowed to compete on equal terms in the quota system. I would therefore challenge the Foreign Minister to look at the quota system again, because there is an important prerequisite here that the government parties failed, but that is now broken. I refer to what Asmund Kristoffersen and Tore Nordtun said in Odelstinget's debate on 19 June. Asmund Kristoffersen said that one could have more stringent allocations to new industries, because the new industry would be able to buy without limit with quotas from the Green Development Mechanism. It's cheaper than what you get in the EU system. Tore Nordtun said: ‘This is strict. At the same time, however, we have a more liberal approach to using the green development mechanism. [[...]] What has happened after this was said? The EU has said: No, you cannot use the green development mechanism as you will. You get a maximum of 10 pst. through it. This means that the assumption that the new Norwegian industry would be able to buy cheap allowances is not met. It is then a natural consequence that one looks at the whole climate quota law, so that one does not completely destroy for new Norwegian industry. I hope the government's representatives will respond to that. So I wonder in this context: how can a government that has the most offensive and ambitious climate policy in the world still sell 12 million tonnes of CO2 in the European market, as mentioned in the proposition? If you think it's offensive, you'd have to torture these quotas instead of filling the treasury. Then I challenge the Foreign Minister to clarify what he really meant when he said that the business community is preparing for ‘no allowances will be free after 2012’. Is it not clear that the Government will work for the EU to have that policy in 2012? But will Norway apply that policy, regardless of what the EU does? This will be interesting for new Norwegian industrial establishments in the next few years. Then go to Mongstad. It has long been known that ESA may have objected to Mongstad. It's not a news this past week, even though the Minister of Oil and Energy, is new in his role, later on as if it hasn't been a theme before. There is quite a lot that has suddenly become new after we got a new State Council in the Oil and Energy Ministry. But I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Oil and Energy to the Progress Party and the Right's remarks when the Mongstad case was dealt with, where we pointed out that the Evening Post as early as March 8 pointed out the very same thing as is now the subject, that ESA will not automatically approve the project that is now in place, a substantial work must be done. We addressed this with the previous Minister of Oil and Energy, Enoxen, by letter of 16 April and 24 April this year. He did not try to clarify this, probably because they already saw that this was difficult. One can only wonder what the motives are for the government to only now make a public debate about this. Is it because you see that you can't meet the goals of the timeframe you've set, and now someone needs to blame? For the issue is not new in any way. Then I also see that the government is now saying they are going to consider a notification of the Kårstø plant. Kårstø, which is to be completed two years before Mongstad, and with which the Government has worked – and has been clear – much longer than Mongstad, one has not yet notified. So it's going to have 100 pst. State financed — more than Mongstad. Then you can just wonder what kind of screams are going to come from the government when you see that this too would be problematic. I would then challenge the government to look at the project again. One has already broken the promise of the Soria Moria declaration to deliver CO2 clean-up in 2009. The cost of the project over a 25-year period will be NOK 17.5 billion. There are better ways to develop new CO2 cleaning technologies than to build concrete and steel on Kårstø, e.g. to research more?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e182	The Foreign Minister’s presentation on key EU and EEA issues includes a number of themes: climate challenges, the environment, food security, maritime policy, justice policy, crime prevention, migration challenges, asylum policy, etc. Several of these themes will be commented on by my party colleagues in different committee fractions. It is interesting to see that EEA matters arouse wide involvement. In fact, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a presentation on the very central issues of domestic policy. Our strong integration into EU cooperation means that ‘important EU and EEA matters’ can also be referred to as ‘important Norwegian issues’. The EU's decisions and policies increasingly affect us, as changes in the EU and global changes take place. For a long time, Norway has believed that it will be better served to participate fully in the European arena, because Norway is part of Europe and because EU membership will give us the right to contribute, to be heard and to vote. We believe membership will make it easier to attend to Norwegian interests and values. Now it's clearly a new argument: we have to in terms of our democracy. When international matters and decisions affect us more than before, we need to participate in decisions taken, in order to safeguard democracy. By choosing continued exclusion, we leave to others to make the decisions for us. Therefore, the EU case is increasingly about strengthening Norwegian democracy. So now the issue of membership is not the issue today, but the Foreign Minister's statement has not weakened the Right in the belief that we are approaching a time when membership has to be on the agenda again. The Minister for Foreign Affairs presented the EU's ambitious objectives and comprehensive work in the field of climate policy. Today, it is well beyond doubt that the EU is a priority area for both high climate targets and effective climate solutions. The aim of the last Minister for the Environment was that Norway should not be worse than the EU. The opinion is a good illustration of the EU’s important role in addressing climate challenges. When the Government points out that the economic system needs to be set up in such a way that people and businesses are drawn in a more climate-friendly direction, i.e. that the market mechanisms have to be put into operation, the Government is absolutely right to do so. However, the management of so-called market empires, such as: the absence of any cost or price of CO2 emissions requires international cooperation. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, the internal market paved the way for EU countries to develop a common quota system. The EU has proved to be a business area in creating and establishing a multinational allowance market, and Norway is among the countries that have joined the EU ETS. The right considers that the Government adopted an approach that discriminates against existing companies in Norway, without any environmental impact. But we support the connection to the system. The EU is a key driver of international climate negotiations and was central to both negotiating and implementing the UN Convention on Climate Change in 1992 and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Of course, the EU will have a central role in the forthcoming climate negotiations in Bali. Some of the challenge for Norway will be to influence and coordinate us with the EU in advance of these negotiations. But it might seem like we're hanging out a little bit. It must be a crossroads for the Government that Norway wants EU support for our so-called moon landing project in Mongstad, but chooses not to contribute to the flagship project that the EU Commission and the United Kingdom are now contributing to in China. They have started cooperation on the financing and development of a coal-fired power plant almost without CO2 emissions. Yes, it may seem that it is Bellona, and not Norwegian authorities, who have contributed to the EU reaching significant levels of CO2 capture and storage, both in Europe and as part of an international climate agenda. This is why it responds to the Government saying that it is concerned about progress in its own projects because EU legislation is not in place. It is incredible that work on the project in Mongstad and the agreement with Statoil was started without coordination and contact with the EU bodies. However, the right considers that the case illustrates very well the challenges for Norway by being outside the EU. This is true of climate policy and, increasingly, of energy policy. In January this year, the EU promoted a ground-breaking action plan on energy. As you know, the objective is to reduce CO2 emissions by 20 pst. in relation to 1990 levels by 2020, and by 30 pst. if other large industrial areas, including the United States, are included. Sustainability and the fight against climate change are the red line of the EU's new energy policy. In a number of areas, EU countries will concentrate on measures for more efficient energy markets, energy saving, technology development and renewable energy investment. The EU also has a crucial dialogue with Russia and countries in Central Asia on energy, a dialogue in which Norway does not participate, but which can also have a significant impact on our energy cooperation with Russia. The Minister of Foreign Affairs concerned the new EU Treaty and the challenges it could pose for Norway. There is little doubt that, if the Treaty enters into force by June 2009, it will have a major impact on us. When the pillar structure changes, the EU will have greater freedom of action to see policy areas and actions in the context, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. The decision-making structure is changing and national parliaments will have greater influence. What this means for Norway and Norwegian Governing Bodies is an important theme that should be high on the Government’s agenda for the period until 2009. The majority must have the Government’s honest assessment of whether the changes affect Norway’s ability to influence. Right-wing alerts already indicate that we will follow this up in parallel with the EU ratification process. The agreement on a new reform treaty makes it possible for the EU to become more effective and clear, which is essential for the EU to play a more important role internationally. There is a significant global shift of power in favor of China, India and Russia and energy-rich autocrats. Despite the fact that the United States is, and will remain, the most economically, militarily and politically important single state in the world, it is obvious that in recent years the United States has lost a lot of political legitimacy, or what can be called soft power. In this rather complex international situation, there is a need for an EU that can contribute more forcefully and clearly to democracy, human rights, security and sustainable development in the world. The EU is expected to have a more comprehensive, coherent and effective foreign policy. This is one of the most important advances in the new Reform Treaty, which was adopted at the EU Summit at the end of June. Although there will still be areas where Member States disagree and will appear with national markers, the changes include: the establishment of a High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, a proper step towards increased coordination and thus greater European strength and ability to address international problems. The Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded his statement by saying that: ‘Our task is to respond to initiatives coming from the EU and to do what we can to safeguard Norwegian interests and influence with our eyesight’. Thus, an active European policy is summarised. But should Norway calm down on responding to initiatives? Is that our contribution to Europe's common challenges? Right means no. An active European policy is about premising, being involved in shaping the solutions, so that our northern perspective is also about the end result. An active European policy will, for example: be associated with the countries we are particularly close, such as the Nordic countries, in order to increase the efficiency and dynamism of European cooperation. Such a European policy would be right. However, as long as we are outside, we will be grateful for presentations about the many initiatives taken by the European Union, and for the government's efforts to intervene so-called close to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e238	Today we are discussing important EU and EEA issues. On the same day, the Right Leader goes into the newspapers and says that the most important issue now is membership – without hearing in particular in either opinion or in the political environment. When membership is the most important thing in the EU/EEA debate, is it to understand that the Right will make it a prerequisite for participation in any cooperative government, which is to say the Right, for EU membership to be on the agenda and for EU membership to be included in that government's declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e246	The right view of the need for membership is shaped by the development of the EU and our growing dependence on the EU's assumptions for us, and the decisions taken there. We want to influence the decision-making process. The more EU legislation is implemented in us, the more clearly it becomes dependent. We are committed to informing Norwegian society about the situation and the extent of the interdependence between the EU and Norway. We believe that significant activity should be stepped up to raise the awareness of Norway’s population of what the EU actually means to it. That must be the way to create an understanding of, and a majority in favour of, that one can once again put the membership debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e253	This is a debate that brings out the best in people. We in the Central Party have now heard the Progress Party talk hotly about both relapses and how one can improve the Kyoto agreement, and now the Right about climate and the environment – we are pleased about that. The representative addresses the issue of support for the CO2 capture and storage projects and the relationship with the EU’s competition policy. Does the Right assess this so that there is reason to believe that we will be exempted from this competition policy if we enter and become a full member of the Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e263	Our view is that some of the things that the European Union adopts and that concern us, we will have a great deal of understanding and feel that is okay. Other things are more difficult. But at least our perception is that it's wrong if we don't participate in the premise and decision-making process for these things, whether it's climate or other things. So examples of this kind illustrate very well how skeptical it becomes when we're not part of the investigation, premiscuous and decision-making process itself. That's our background.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e268	Let me first note that the representative did not answer Vidar Bjørnstad's question about the prerequisites for joining the government with no-parties in the future. Let me continue by referring to an article in the Evening Post yesterday from the former adviser to the Right of the Stortinget, namely Knutsen, who writes: ‘The EU is in the process of taking over the primary responsibility for European security, partly at the expense of NATO.’ Does Vallersnes share this view? There is a broad consensus in Norway that NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy. The installation from Knutsen was actually a bit alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e280	There were two questions here. I'll have to do the last one first. I think there is quite a broad consensus both in the Right and in several places that the European part of NATO appears to increasingly coordinate its views through the EU structure. In my view, it may be probable that we will increasingly see the need to be part of the EU codecision process, which we will meet again in NATO. That's how things relate. When it comes to the government issue, the representative Nybakk knows as well as I do that both my party and her have a long experience in being realistic about entering into different government cooperation. I'm just repeating what I've said before: our goal is to work for an increased understanding in the country so that it becomes a majority that is for membership, and that allows us to put this question on the agenda again. The active driving work will also be included in the government's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e289	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e292	I too would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a full and good presentation. There is no doubt that, in some environmental areas, the EU will be a drag for us who want a more environmentally friendly future. The EU's position on the Kyoto agreement is an example of this. I also expect the EU to be of help when we are about to start negotiations on further reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. In some areas, however, the EU is bubbling up for us that will prevent man-made climate change. The state is a completely necessary support player to clean up the gas power plants in Mongstad and Kårstø. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, the Government is concerned about the future of both Kårstø and Mongstad because EU legislation in this area is not clear. We cannot postpone a moon landing because the EU does not get the legislation in place. We need to continue with our clean-up plans, at the same time we need to press the EU to put in place rules to ensure that we can provide state aid to clean up gas power plants. I believe that Norway can be a leading country in this area, a country that is working for a better environment in the EU, can use as an example in its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The problems we can now face with the European Union are examples of how EU legislation on the internal market works. It is the free play of market forces that is the rule, everything else is the exception. There are exceptions to this rule, and now we have to ensure that state aid for the management of CO2 becomes one of the exceptions. I see that some people are blinded by Brussels and believe that it is the government's fault that the EU has not already accepted that state support for CO2 management can be given. I think we have to realize that the Norwegian Government, whether it is a majority government, cannot alone rule over EU legislation. Nor could we have done that if we had been a member of the EU. I think it's important that we all, regardless of whether we look at both the EEA and the EU, put the cappists on the stable. We must now ensure that the gas power plants in Mongstad and Kårstø are cleaned as planned. In environmental areas other than climate, we are struggling more with the EU. An ever-increasing problem is that we want to go beyond the EU in terms of reducing the use of substances harmful to the environment and health. There was something in Norway that was already in the EEA negotiations more than 15 years ago. At the time, we did not allow the use of asbestos, because we had transitional rules. Since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, we have had to allow several times the use of substances that we initially wanted to prohibit, including: additions to baby foods. This government has taken a much more offensive view of the EU than previous governments. There's nothing we're doing just to protect us marines. We can also influence the European Union. By providing State aid so that companies can reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, we can drastically affect the EU. We do the same if we ban substances that are harmful to the environment and to health. The size treated in our St.meld. No 14 for 2006-2007, Together for a toxic-free environment – the prerequisites for a safer future, where a joint committee supported the Regeringen, among others. in the case of bans on environmental contaminants in consumer products. The Committee also asked the Government to consider the prohibition of brominated flame retardants. The SFT has now submitted to the consultation a proposal to ban 18 pollutants in consumer products. The government's position is that we have the right to do so in relation to the EEA. In its opinion, ESA is critical that we can ban these substances. It is important that we challenge legislation in the EEA. ESA must also address the problems of environmental pollutants. New knowledge of both climate change and environmental toxicities requires changes in how EEA rules are applied and how they are understood. The European Union is affecting us in good and bad. Sickly, if I could imagine that our cooperation with the EU was more equal, Norway, a rich neighbouring country, has a cooperation with the EU that many countries will envy us. The EU has concluded agreements with other countries, agreements that Norway would never accept. An example is agreements the EU wants to have with developing countries, Economic Partnership Agreements, so-called EPAs. The EPO has shown considerable resistance, not least because common rules primarily confer benefits to the EU. In the past, these countries have had access to EU markets under more favourable conditions than the EU has had to the markets of developing countries, so-called asymmetry. In this way, companies in these developing countries have had the opportunity both to export products to the EU and to prevent the domestic industry from being competitive by EU companies. The old agreements with the EU could have been much better, but many developing countries now go from bad to worse because of the EPA, because the principle is now the same for businesses both in the EU and in the developing world. Equal rules differ when the differences between those covered by the rules are large. Former President of Tanzania, Julius Nyerere, has illustrated the problem of common rules on how it would turn out if he and Muhammad Ali met in a boxing. Norway is better off than many developing countries are in the EU with the same rules. The problem with EU trade agreements is that they apply to countries that have a much lower starting point for competing with the same rules. If different countries are to be treated as equivalent, the rules must be different. Because we are not a member of the European Union, we also do not have common trade policy with the European Union. Norway can therefore use the power of the example to make more joint and several agreements with developing countries. There must be agreements with rules that give the greatest benefit to those who need it the most. This isn't about charity, it's about justice. We have now experienced increased labour migration from the east to Norway. There is no doubt that this labour immigration leads well with it. There will be more and more free hands, which will allow us to create more. In addition, this may mean that enterprises in the east need to offer better pay and working conditions to keep employees. In particular, it will be positive if workers from the east experience what professional organisation can mean for pay and working conditions while working here in the west. Those experiences are gold worth both for them sea and for the many who travel home again. Increased labour migration may also increase the risk of social dumping, as employers try to pressure workers into accepting low wages and poor employment. People who come to Norway to get a job are particularly vulnerable to this pressure. As the Government writes, this social dumping can lead to unfair competition with unfair pressures on acquired rights and weakened recruitment to particularly vulnerable professions and industries, and to serious enterprises losing jobs and customers to unprofessional operators. It is important that we facilitate the prevention of social dumping. The most important thing is to avoid high unemployment. If unemployment is low, there is the possibility of employers taking advantage of people’s needs and paying them less. The second most important thing is organisation. Good trade unions, with good trust elected locally, are invaluable in the fight against social dumping. In addition, we need to avoid rules that could lead to social dumping. The Government is now working on the Services Directive. This Directive shall increase competition for the provision of services. This can be tolerated if the workers were effectively organised also in what we call the ‘exposed’ parts of Norwegian working life, hotel and restaurant, car transport, cleaning and the many other service jobs that will be exposed to more intense foreign competition. The government is now carrying out a thorough assessment of the Services Directive. In this assessment, it is important to have the experience of the professional movement. We must not accept that low wages and poor working conditions should give dramatic competitive advantage in the fight for jobs, which is already happening today, especially in those parts of the world of work that are not covered by collective agreements. The fight against social dumping is international and workers must learn from each other. I would therefore like to highlight an important point of light in Norwegian European policy: the proposal for a system of grants to social partners next year in order to enable them to carry out networking in relation to sister organisations in the new EU Member State in Central and Eastern Europe. The new Reform Treaty is hardly a favourite in the Member States. Nevertheless, it is important that it is made available to people. We also need to know about that treaty. It is therefore positive that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is open in his statement that it should be translated into Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e347	When I heard the post to Valle, I thought that there was a difference between creating noise and being offensive. I record that she herself believes she is offensive, but it reminds me of noise. Because while one of the SVs says that the chemicals legislation is too offensive, because one wants Norway to have stricter rules than one has applied in the EU, I note that the Government says that it will be important to give Norwegian industry the same framework conditions as its competitors in the EU as regards REACH. Then this whole tirad towards the EU appears to be relatively meaningless, or, as I said, noisy. The same is true when criticising the EU and CO2 clean-up, because so far the EU has not postponed the Government’s CO2 clean-up project. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Kårstø plant is to be cleaned by 2009, but it is the government’s own work that has put it at a minimum of three years off. Then I have registered that the representative says that we cannot postpone the moon landing because of the EU. Then a questioner has to ask: what does that mean in plain text? Does it simply mean that SV, if necessary, will set aside the EEA Agreement in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e362	First to REACH, as I understood the representative took up. Yes, it is important that Norwegian companies have predictability, and they have just wanted predictability. This is how, in offensive negotiations with the EU, we have been approved by this government to continue the ban on the environmental taxes we already have to prohibit. As far as the new substances are concerned, I think it is important to challenge the legislation in this area as well, and that we are offensive to ESA when they try to put chains in the wheels here. Then it was the CO2 cleaning. Some of the problems are precisely that the EU has not put in place the CO2 clean-up legislation, despite the fact that the EU is also interested in setting up environmentally friendly industries. In order to meet the Kyoto agreement and fulfil their commitments, they must.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e379	In the statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to foreign and security policy and says: ‘Here we will continue a close and close dialogue with a view to developing cooperation on common objectives. Such goals are many, and they are hardly fewer in the future.’ These are opinions that I and the Right share completely. I assume that it is largely based on our recognition that we have a great deal in common with Europe in terms of human rights, democracy and values in an otherwise global setting. This is why it is all the more surprising when the representative Valle departs from a part of the EU's foreign policy, in particular as regards assistance and agreements with other countries. Is it true that Valle feels uncomfortable with the Government's approach to foreign and security policy, as stated in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e390	Not at all! I feel very comfortable being part of a party that is part of this government. Clearly, we need to work together on many important issues, not only in Europe, but also beyond Europe, not only with EU countries, but also with countries that are not members of the EU, and to cooperate on the important issues that the representative of Vallersnes addressed. So I criticized the EU's rather aggressive approach to putting these EPA agreements into place. I'm not alone in this. The Namibian Minister of Fisheries also took a clear distance from them when we were visiting Namibia. Norway can pursue a much more cohesive policy in this area, and make development policy and trade policy go hand in hand. I have faith that this government will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e399	On an incurrence, the representative Valle came to forget to answer my real question! I'd like to give the representative a new opportunity. In particular, given the fact that the two representatives of the Workers’ Party in the change of line after the insertion by the Right’s representative were very concerned about how the Right would manage in a new civil government from 2009 with any no-parties, it is equally interesting for the Workers’ Party to clarify how their government partners today relate to the EEA Agreement. Then I take what came from Valle himself: we cannot delay a moon landing because of the EU. Knowing that the Government will and will implement the Mongstad project means that SV in this case is willing to set aside the EEA Agreement to honour the promise of CO2 cleaning in Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e409	We have joined a government that excludes membership during this period, but is also based on the EEA Agreement. It does not relieve us of the responsibility of being offensive, which I also perceive that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Oil and Energy are. They are doing everything they can to get the necessary measures in place to meet our climate obligations and be even more offensive in the future. That means being offensive in putting in place the CO2 cleaning. I'm pretty sure this government will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e417	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e420	There are many of us in what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his statement, for example. when, at the beginning of the distribution process, the EEA has, throughout its 14 years, been a stable and long-term framework for economic relations between EFTA and EU countries. These six-monthly distributions can be useful, especially if you are open to challenges, realistic in the analysis and provide constructive solutions for debate. However, there is a danger that distributions will become little problematic when it comes to assessments of the EU’s practical policies. It's kind of marked me this time, too. in the context of the EU’s climate policy and in the context of the Reform Treaty. However, this distribution by the Minister for Foreign Affairs corresponds more to the purpose of these half-yearly publications on important EU and EEA issues than the previous one. This one was more focused on the issues involved, and we appreciate it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed a number of climate challenges in depth. The government tells of ambitious objectives in climate policy. That is, in any case, right – in comparison with the EU. The EU's new target of 20 p.m. reduction in 2020 compared to 1990 represents a 15 pst. reduction in relation to Kyoto agreements. Norway's 30 pst. reduction targets are about twice as ambitious. The EU has clarified that their 2020 targets are to be achieved through the use of the international flexibility mechanisms, without explicit limits in terms of how much is to be achieved in and outside the EU. Why is the Norwegian government so modest that it does not clearly show that the climate measure, after all, is twice as ambitious as the EU's? However, the government's climate policy is not ambitious enough. In the Christian People's Party, we have high targets. We want Norway to be a leading country in climate policy, and that it will be much stronger than what the Government has set up. We would like, among other things: a strong increase in the research on new renewable energy. We want a substantial increase in support for public transport and stricter requirements for CO2 treatment. The Foreign Minister notes that it is a major challenge to identify a system that ensures a global burden-sharing when it comes to financing emissions reductions. Christian People's Party wants action in developing countries welcome. It is possible to achieve greater and faster global emissions reductions if the industrialised world helps reduce emissions in developing countries, for example. by financing or implementing concrete climate action. Emission reductions may have much to say about the health situation in developing countries. Furthermore, climate action and the introduction of new technologies in developing countries can in themselves facilitate both development and poverty reduction. The Christian People's Party will insist that measures to reduce the global climate problem created by industrialised countries should not be financed from the aid budget. Nor do we accept that measures should internationally reduce the national level of ambition. Now it is not always that the Foreign Minister’s statement on EU and EEA matters in the Stortinget is a surprise. But that was actually the case this time. It is not new that the Government may have major problems in obtaining EU approval of State aid for CO2 treatment at Mongstad and Kårstø. But when the Foreign Minister says that the Government is concerned about the progress of these projects because the State aid project is a challenge both in terms of content and possible time use, there are new tones. As late as 30 October this year, the Prime Minister said to the evening post that he was sure that we would get a solution with the European Union. There's a significant difference between being concerned and being sure. Is it the government's rhetoric that has changed during the last week, or are there realities in the matter that now looks different? Two years ago, the citizens of a number of EU countries were asked to decide on the draft new EU Constitution – the so-called Constitutional Treaty. The aim of the Treaty was to bring the EU system closer to the people. The EU Council had approved a relatively open process, at least for the EU. But it didn't go as smoothly when the people were asked. In France and the Netherlands, a 'no' majority was known, and since there had to be agreement between the countries in order for the constitution to be adopted, the Constitutional Treaty was thus dead. But that the people say no in a democratic referendum does not stop the European elite. After a tactical period of mourning, the Constitutional Treaty appeared again in its recent version. This time it was done in the old way: a closed process with no outside insight and a proposal in a legally complicated language, so people couldn't easily understand what the consequences were. Most of the content was still in place, but the child had a new name. No, it's called the Reform Treaty. Here, the EU can almost resemble Hindu-soul migration. The one who dies, keeps coming back into new life, once as a dog, once as a wasteless, once as a merchant, etc. This is also the case in the EU. The Constitutional Treaty died in contact with the people, but has now come to life under the name of the Reform Treaty. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs commented on the Reform Treaty, he did not call for a referendum, which is a hot topic in several EU countries. I thought, then, would the Minister for Foreign Affairs say that the transfer of more and more competence or power of decision from national elected bodies to the Union's bodies means a reduction in power to national elected bodies and powers of government? But no, I didn't hear anything. And would he point out that more plural decisions and less room for veto and conciliation would reduce small Member States' right to prevent decisions they disagree with? A blink of an eye actually sounded like this, but then we got to know that formally it was right, understood that actually it wasn't. On the other hand, we heard that the national parliaments now had a more important role, and I did not hear anything about the fact that this point was only formally correct. The Foreign Minister’s publications on the EU and the EEA would point out whether one was also willing to problematise aspects of the EU, and not just problematize aspects of the EEA, other international institutions and Norwegian schemes. Another thing that we had expected a thorough assessment of now is the Services Directive. This evaluation has been requested from a team since the start of the year. We have asked for a thorough assessment, and it has been a long time since the hearing period expired. But we didn't get the government's conclusion in this statement either. Would the Government recommend that Norway accept the directive? I want to use the opportunity to ask the Foreign Minister what time the Government will make its conclusion known to the Storting. Can he promise to respond during the autumn session, or late spring in connection with the distribution of EU and EEA cases? Relations with the EU and cooperation in the EEA are an important part of Norwegian foreign policy. There have been major economic differences between the countries participating in this cooperation and the solidarity that Norway provides through various schemes to new and less developed member countries. This is important. There are quite a few of us with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Finally, I would like to remind you that the major solidarity challenge is the relationship with the poorest countries in the world. It is still a long way to go until the rich Europe takes full responsibility for solidarity in the global context. It should spur us all to be both meek and not least impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e469	The Christian People's Party wants an ambitious climate policy. That's good. The center part divides the ambitions. But to achieve an ambitious climate policy, we need action that works. Due to our association with the EEA Agreement, these measures may, for example: are intended to conflict with competition policy in the EU. My question to the Christian People's Party is the following: If it turns out that competition policy in the EU is increasingly hindering action that works in climate policy – which also the Christian People's Party stresses the importance of – then will the Christian People's Party be willing to reconsider its position on the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e476	It is nice that a former centre party, currently in government, ask for advice on how to deal with EU and EEA matters in government. We would like to give advice there, but first of all, we are now busy getting a broad national climate deal. As you know, today there are three opposition parties in talks with the government to get a wide climate settlement. When it comes to the question of reaching a necessary agreement on Mongstad and Kårstø – that is, what the representative was looking for – I have to be allowed to return the question. This is just one of the big challenges that the government has. They're actually asking for an answer to what the hold is. Is this a problem, or is it not a problem? So we have to wait for a clarification from the Government on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e483	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e486	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his presentation. The Central Party has considered the follow-up to the European Communication as a mixture of an orientation on where the processes in the EU, which are of importance to Norway and in which we are already engaged, are facing new initiatives, and the communication of concerns in areas where it is crucial for Norway to engage. For the Central Party, the European Communication was also the unanimous attitude of the Stortinge against the European Communication that not only the Government should pursue an active European policy, the Stortinget and the Scientific Committees of the Stortinge should do the same. That is why my party colleagues in other committees will also be active in parts of the debate that are taking place in areas related to their field of competence – for which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has well arranged. I'm going to focus on how the Center Party hopes the Storting should be able to take more responsibility in European matters in the future, with the background of the presentation. The size shall be reflected in the development of European policies in the past. We will help to identify key priorities for Norway. We have to take responsibility. We must not be passive in the process of European integration. When the Stortinget dealt with the European message, the vote was unanimous. I should like to admit that for the Central Party, the description of the EU was generally positive, so I find that the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement is also positive. However, we accept this in order to reach an agreement on more transparency and prior involvement in the treatment of European affairs, and that several EEA and European issues should be able to go through the Scientific Committees. Most importantly, however, the Committees were to be given the right of initiative in European matters, so that the Government could get an early signal on the Storting's positions, and that the Committees could early invite them to consultations and have dialogue with the respective expert councils on matters that are important to the country. Our reading of the Storting decision for the European Communication was that early information on initiatives in the Commission would enable the Storting to contribute to greater transparency and debate. At that time, we can also early involve social actors and help to safeguard Norway’s interests against the negative effects of the EU’s most common unilateral market thinking. The Foreign Affairs Committee chose to be relatively open in its referral to the Presidency to return to the Stortinget with new draft Rules of Procedure. The setting says that: ‘the Standing Committees shall also be able to take initiatives to follow specific EU/EEA-related issues. In this context, the Committee recommends that the Presidency examine a supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting which gives such right of initiative to the Standing Committees.» The Central Party is eagerly awaiting the Presidency's proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure. We are impatient to start a real debate and that Norway's top political body should be actively involved in policy-making on issues that require ever-new sovereignties. The Committee also noted that Norway’s EEA membership is increasingly turning foreign policy into domestic policy. The EU is trying, and succeeding far on the way, to provide market leaders for our environmental policy, our energy policy, our ownership policy and our employment policy. I think the Foreign Minister's statement with all clarity made it visible. He briefed on climate policy, chemicals policy, food policy and asylum policy – to mention something. These are policy areas for our expert councils. The Committee's initiative would be better based on annotated lists of EEA cases, the semi-annual informal written information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the adoption of relevant acts, the adopted half-yearly statements by the Ministry on matters pending in the Commission, the more frequent use of short notices and the Storting's own expanded investigation competence in EU/EEA cases. Most of this, apart from the right of initiative of the expert committees to organise hearings in European affairs, has led us to engage in dialogue with the specialist councils and to obtain short-term reviews which could contribute to the early involvement of the Scientific Committees of the European Parliament. For example, the right of initiative for short notices could be included in the Committees in the half-yearly presentations. In the Foreign Minister's presentation, I noticed several issues that could be good candidates for such big messages as we requested. Now the Central Party belongs to those who support people in the EU in their demand that the draft reform treaty be tested with a referendum, as polls in many EU countries show that people want. Regardless of this, the statements of our foreign minister are so important that I think the Storting should get a big message where the Government explains what is changing, what consequences it has for our cooperation with the EU, how we should deal with it, and whether it has implications for the contractual content of the EEA Agreement and the Schengen Agreement. Secondly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the Commission’s Blue Paper on an integrated maritime policy and a more comprehensive maritime policy. These are areas where Norway has vital and great interests. According to the Foreign Minister’s statement, the Blue Paper will contain several elements with which Norway has generations’ experience. This is an example of what the Centre understands as a theme in which the Storting should be able to get a short scoreboard as a basis for early involvement in the priorities towards the EU. The third area that can be suitable for more thorough review is the issue of EU immigration, asylum and border policies. The link now made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs with development policies in neighbouring countries and the neighbouring continent in the south to reduce the flow of refugees is central. Early involvement in this process is reported on the part of Norway. It is also a matter of course to present the Storting more thoroughly, where one can be given the opportunity to discuss the role of Norway in this process, and what it may mean for Norway’s Schengen and Frontex exposures. These three issues are examples of issues that I think the Storting should be involved in more closely than just through a statement. They also illustrate that the six-monthly presentations can be provided by a specialist council. Furthermore, the EEA Committee should be able to choose to send cases to expert committees for consideration, which should receive a more thorough policy assessment. In conclusion, I would like to say that I have taken the freedom to reflect on how we can involve Stortinget more actively in European policy, among others. based on the six-monthly presentations. I hope that it can inspire us to look forward, as we did when we dealt with the European Communication in ours, regardless of the position on membership of the EEA and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e537	When the Central Party entered the Government and signed the Soria Moria Agreement, it was already there that a compromise was reached from the Central Party in relation to accession to the EEA, and that is part of the everyday life of the policy. As long as the EEA Agreement and the relationship with the EU are relatively unproblematic, there are probably not the major problems for the Central Party either. Now, in this debate, the Central Party has chosen to challenge the Christian People's Party on their position on the EEA Agreement, if there is a conflict with Mongstad. How does the centre party view this, and how far is the centre party willing to go in order for us to get a solution to Mongstad if we do not get the optimal solution as the oil and energy minister wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e544	It's always hard to predict the future, and here it's going to be the case. We don't know what will be the result of the government's investigations into the EU. We will go reasonably far towards finding a solution, and I believe that the solution will lie within the same area of interest that the EU will have, even if they have not come as far as their work is concerned to complete the legislation that we are all waiting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e549	International organised crime is taking increasingly serious forms and is affecting both individuals, businesses and society as a whole. It is therefore essential that we facilitate the participation of Norwegian police in international police arenas, so that Norway too can contribute actively to the fight against international crime. Norway's relationship with Europol and Schengen is central here. Despite the need for increased international police cooperation, the Centre Party has shown resistance to Norway's participation in the Schengen cooperation. Does this statement from the Government mean that the Centre Party has given up its opposition to Norwegian Schengen cooperation and that the Centre Party is behind the active participation of Norwegian police in EU judicial and police cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e556	The Central Party is behind what is designed in the Soria Moria Declaration. We are sceptical about parts of the Schengen Treaty, but we are within a cooperative framework that allows us to be said to be action-oriented in this way. However, I note that Norway cooperates well with the countries around us in a number of fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e561	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e564	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for a good presentation. This is the second of its kind, and it helps to reinforce the impression that this is a useful tool for promoting government information and consultation on Europe-related issues. I am particularly pleased with the balance between general questions related to e.g.: The EU Reform Treaty, and more concrete issues related to specific issues of relevance to Norway. With regard to the first, the Reform Treaty, I fully support the Foreign Minister's assessments. However, I missed the deepening of two important issues for Norway. One relates to the EU’s deficit of democracy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs rightly pointed out that if the Treaty is ratified, national parliaments will have a more important role to play. However, I would have liked to see this deepened, as well as an assessment of whether this and other measures are enough to solve the persistent problem of democratic deficits that have followed the EU for many years. This will be of great importance to many Nordics’ assessment of the EU. The second relates to the path to further integration in the EU. Will it go deep, will it go wide, or will we see a core group surrounded by less ambitious countries? Strong forces move in different directions within the EU. The reason why I stress this is that it can be of great importance to what kind of EU Norway will have to deal with in the future, no matter what form of association we have to choose. With regard to the examination of specific fields of action involved in the presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it was mainly topical and good. This part of the statement was significantly strengthened in relation to the first statement, which was made in June, which I consider positive. I want to spend the remaining time on two subject areas on the more problematic side. State aid for CO2 cleaning in Mongstad and the Services Directive. CO2 treatment in Mongstad has become a very topical EEA-related matter over the past few weeks. The rug is the government's promise in the Soria Moria declaration of full CO2 clean-up at new gas power plants from day one. Since then, the Government has granted a concession for the construction of gas power plants in Mongstad without such a scheme for CO2 cleaning. However, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has assured us that CO2 cleaning will be in place in 2014 – despite the uncertainty of the technology to be used. Furthermore, there is uncertainty as to whether future EU legislation will allow for the scope of State aid that this requires. In addition, consideration is given to EU competition rules. I believe this shows that there has been a poor quality assurance of the promises made by the Government in this area. Within the EU, there is now a rope around the appearance of the State aid rules and the financing of CO2 capture. A draft State aid guidelines for environmental projects did not take Norwegian views into account, which does not promise the Government well. Furthermore, it can be mentioned that the European Commission has reduced the level of State aid for a CO2 management project in the Netherlands. This project was planned for 40 pst. State aid, i.e. a lower level of State aid than provided by the Government for the treatment plant in Mongstad. This raises several issues. One is whether the government has done a good enough job. Should it not have known about the uncertainty associated with EU legislation? Should it not take this into account when it went out and sold its “moon landing”? Furthermore, there are things that indicate that the procedure may not have been good enough. It turns out that the Government has not notified ESA of its involvement in the capture, transport and storage of CO2 both in Mongstad and Kårstø. Only the investment in the testing centre in Mongstad has been notified. This alone is enough to delay the project. Last but not least, there is so much doubt about the real agenda of the Government. Will it use the EU as a shell cover to fail to fulfil its full-scale clean-up promise at Mongstad in 2014? I believe that the government should clean this up as soon as possible. It has made significant efforts to streamline the handling of EEA matters. I'm thinking about St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, on the implementation of the European policy and the accompanying action plan. However, the management of State aid relating to CO2 clean-up has shown that it is unable to live up to its good intentions set out in these documents. Early warning, information flow, and transparency are key here. Another EU/EEA case where the Government is holding something is the management of the Services Directive. It was not mentioned in the first European political statement of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on 4 June of this year nor in the statement he made on Tuesday. I think this is striking, given the attention given to the Services Directive in Norway. The government seems to refuse to meet the desire of an overall opposition to make a statement here in the Stockholm Service Directive. This would provide a good opportunity to discuss the principal aspects of the Directive and its consequences for Norway. Every time this question has been raised, the Government has stated that it will come back to the Storting with an appropriate explanation at an appropriate time and in an appropriate manner. It has been able to show that the directive is being consulted. Following the expiry of the consultation period on 22 February of this year, it has shown that it needs time to review the consultation opinions and to complete the impact assessment. It is disappointing, given the Government's great emphasis on transparency and good flow of information between government and growth in the European Policy Implementation Communication. The background for this is understandable internal disagreement in the Government. But Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has assured that all necessary national measures against social dumping can be implemented even if the Services Directive is enforced. However, this has not been reassuring to his own people, which has resulted in significant opposition to the Services Directive within the Government and the trade union movement. This shows that good intentions related to transparency can get a brutal meeting with reality. Openness is easy to talk about, but worse to do something in practice when it's in its own rows, or when key promises of CO2 clean-up are at stake. Nevertheless, I would like to encourage the Government to go further in showing transparency in these and other EEA-related matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e624	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e627	In the same way as some others from the opposition, the Left chooses to address the process between the Government and the EU for the capture and storage of CO2 but without addressing the whole of the challenges that open up a great State economic impact in order to achieve ambitious climate targets on one side and EU/EEA competition legislation on the other. The question to the Left is the same as to the KRF: if it turns out that once in a while the wall meets the EU/EEA competition law to implement important climate measures, will the Left reconsider its view of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e635	As my colleague in the Christian People's Party, the Left is also committed to bringing about a broad climate settlement now, and that must be essentially. As regards CO2 capture at Mongstad, I suggested in my post that it is possible that the government has not done well enough pre-work on this, neither in relation to competition rules nor to other rules. I'm sure the government will see it today. This has given them some problems, and they cannot just push them into the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e643	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e646	First, I would like to say that it is very good that so many people take part in this debate, and without demeaning the well-known face of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I think it is very positive that the trade committee is dealing with representatives here. That's what we've wanted to do together. I agree with that description that this is a lot of domestic policy – it is also about important parts of our economy and our political interaction with Europe. And then it'll be easy. And that's what it should be. I want to answer some questions that have come during the submissions. There were many detailed questions from the representative Solvik-Olsen. I think the oil and energy minister will get into some of them. But let me first say about the nuance between being uneasy, impatient and secure in the development of the Mongstad project in relation to the EU's work, that we feel by the Government overall when the international climate panel says that 30 pst. of the solution to the climate challenges must be in capture and storage, Bellona believes that 50 pst. of the challenges of the rich developed countries must be met in this way, and the EU has established this at its summit and is now working with legislation – then we see what progress is going on – that this is what we are going to do. Then, as the Minister for Oil and Energy has said – I agree and said in my statement – there is reason to be concerned about progress. Then 'disturbed' for me is synonymous with being impatient, because we have to go forward with this important project. I'm most concerned about what we read in the newspapers today from the IEA's latest assessments: 50 pst. increasing energy consumption by 2030 and a significant increase in CO2 emissions by all reference roads, and decisive measures need to be taken for the next six to eight years. This is why it is so important to do so, and Norway has to do so. Then I feel that we from the Government have been thorough in our briefing on the Mongstad project. There has been an entirely ordinary ESA process in stage 1, first stage, with CO2 management. The first contacts with ESA were made the day after the agreement with Statoil was concluded last October, and there has been close dialogue with ESA since then. The notification could hardly have been made before, because agreement with the participating companies was not cleared until this year. This could be described in detail by the Minister of Oil and Energy after his meetings in Brussels yesterday. I think it is quite amazing to hear the representative of the Progress Party ask questions about whether the Government is living in the real world on climate issues – here is the party that voted against the Kyoto agreement, which in 2003 denied that the climate challenge was real, and that is not part of today’s talks about reaching a broad national compromise to put strong action in Norway and internationally! In addition, the representative of Solvik-Olsen points out that we have a lack of realistic strategy towards the Bali conference, and that it is critical that our approach focuses on a solution that only rich countries can take on. It's the other way around. Norway emphasises what is to be done by incentives and solutions to involve developing countries in this agency. As you know, the contract covers only 30 pst. of the emissions. We need to bring the United States and Australia, but also China, India, Indonesia and developing countries, and there is a need for renewal in the agreement to achieve. The representative also asked questions about allowances free of charge. We have focused on getting Norway into the ETS Directive to give our companies a level playing field – that was a point in my presentation – as part of the EEA Agreement. And then we get to influence where we can, when this is also being developed in the further development of the quota mechanisms in the EU. Then there was a question of how far the development mechanism went. The representative said that it was 10 pst. which was set as a thank you. So it's going to be 20 pst. That's true. This is a result of the negotiations with the EU, and the idea is to put a ceiling on preventing too many allowances from being brought into the system from outside, thereby undermining the EU's own system. And then we'll also look at how it'll evolve over time. It was pointed out by the representative, Mr Vallersnes, that in EEA cooperation we have a key challenge in dealing with the EU initiative. That does not mean that we are passive on a major agenda in Europe. But now the EEA Agreement is once such that the right of initiative for directives lies within the EU, and cooperation is largely about how the EEA countries, including Norway, adapt to it. In a more active European policy, one tries to set an ambition that goes further, namely to get into the process early in order to be able to influence. Here is the work on catching and storing a good example. So it came up in some lines – I would like to comment on it – that if we do not like the EU State aid system, will we leave the EEA? I also noticed the representative of Valle's observation that the EU is the free game of the market, everything else has to give up. I cannot join that assessment. I believe that the discussion we now have about state aid is an example of a wide range of regulation of the free play of the market. I would also like to point out that if the alternative to dealing with EU legislation, EEA legislation, if we were not to like it, is to say that we are going out of it, and then we are disconnected from it, I really don't think that is true. One of the reasons we got the EEA Agreement was that we were going to have a predictability that would prevent us from getting into situations where we were suspected of abusing State aid and thus being hit by anti-dumping measures. It's one of the important things of the EEA Agreement that it gives us that security. Now the representative Sørfonn is far more immigrated in Hindu-soul migration than I am, so I'm not going to go into that field heavily. But I would like to say that we have to put a sort of limit on what kind of EU debate we have in this Chamber – whether we like or not the EU's reform proposals and what way the European Union is going, whether it is democratic or not democratic. I think it's an amazingly exciting debate, and I'm putting it in where it might be. But it is the case that we are not in the EU, and when I am going to explain the EEA and EU issues that are relevant to Norway, we need to find some kind of interface with the EU's internal issues, which are, in some ways, the main issues for the participating countries and where we are going to come in. I accept that there may be different views of where that line goes, but I have now at least tried to draw a line in my statement around it. This applies to the Services Directive, which is not mentioned in the presentation. Well – to the representative Larsen and the representative Sørfonn – there is no attempt to be closed. The Services Directive is there, it can be studied, it has been published, Norway has given consultation opinions. So we have three years before it has to be in Norwegian law, and we have to follow it very closely. The Prime Minister, me and the Minister of Industry have informed Stortinget that we should come back broadly with an orientation. What we're doing now, after hearing this, is going through what Norwegian laws and regulations are being affected by the Services Directive as we see it, and with a very firm focus on being able to implement national measures against social dumping. But I can confirm once again that we will return to Stortinget with this matter in a broad and thorough manner that will meet all the requirements for transparency and discussion that the important matter needs. So to the representative Samuelsen, who, in my opinion, made an interesting reflection around St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006 and follow-up. I think we had about 90 measures in that message, and we believe that about 70 of them are now implemented. But it's important that the Storting thinks further along this line, and I notice his suggestion to get short staging messages as a room for discussion. It might be interesting to hear more about how the committee views it, and have a discussion about it. I would also like to say that the fact that the Storting is also engaged politically in relation to key EU issues, not least up to the European Parliament, is an important part of how Norway can pursue a more active European policy together. Because it's clear that in some of these institutions, our access is worse. When the Minister of Oil and Energy reports in Brussels to discuss CO2 capture and storage, we have central meetings, for Norway is an important player in Europe, and I believe the EU sees the importance of the work that Norway is doing in this area. They listen to what we have to say, and I also believe that at the end of the day we will come to a good solution to that field. But throughout the institution of the European Parliament, there is the challenge greater. On the part of the Government, we try to be present in different contexts where we have opportunities, but when national parliaments now have a more central role in the institutions of the European Union, probably into the next decade, I hope the Stortinget will be the meeting place consciously seeking ways for a country outside the Union as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e696	I am reacting a little to some of the statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He says that the Progress Party will not be involved in today's talks about a climate settlement. The truth is that the Advance Party has not been wanted from the red-green. We would like to participate ourselves, we have written it in a letter to the Prime Minister, but I note that the Government would rather talk about the Advance Party than the Advance Party. It is sad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not dealing with the proposals that the Progress Party has actually promoted around the Kyoto agreement, rather than bringing in old mold. I am even more responding to the incorrect information provided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on what kind of climate quota law the Stortinget has actually adopted, because in the Norwegian climate quota law no free quotas are allocated to industry established after 2001, nor to increased production in existing industry after 2001. That's strange, and that's why the Progress Party responds and asks: what will one do when the underlying assumptions, that they should have to buy allowances through the green development mechanism without restrictions, have changed? The restrictions are 80 pst. Ban, 20 pst. gets a right to buy. Then the assumptions have changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e703	The President is not quite sure whether'retirement' is a parliamentary expression, but it must go for this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e706	I can live with it. When the Advance Party is not involved in those conversations, it is because we believe that the basis of the attitude to this question does not make it natural to enter into that type of conversation. That's our assessment. Then the Norwegian quota law has been thoroughly discussed. We've selected a historical intersection to evaluate how to define the emission level. It's also going to be put to the hearing, and it's going to the ESA, and I respect that this might be different. With regard to the use of the Kyoto mechanisms, there are restrictions on the level of the enterprises involved and covered by the EU ETS Directive – not Norway as a country. But I'm open to you having a discussion about the modalities of this. That's also why there's been an openness around it, there's been proposals from the Government, the allocation will also be put to the hearing, and then we'll listen and learn in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e715	I intend to return to CO2 capture later. I want to come up with a reflection after hearing the statement that was made on Tuesday, and it is that it seems that the Government's position and the implementation of climate issues are entirely dependent on it being possible to do so in cooperation with other European countries through the EU. The statement made by the Council of State was a statement that described that, at all important points, the EU is in fact the means of action, including the implementation of global climate policy, as we wish. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to comment on whether it would be possible to implement our climate policy without the EU having created a CO2 quota trading system, without the EU being a party to the conversation, and without any reason, for example. the policy they are now pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e726	It is no wonder that a statement on EU/EEA matters is about the EU/EEA, and so was my statement. I think I will answer yes to that question. The beginning of my presentation was that the idea of the EEA Agreement was to ensure equal, predictable rules for Norwegian business and a wide range of others in relation to the European. For historical reasons, it is natural. I also said that when the EU could make its quota cooperation, it was because over so many years they had developed common rules and common institutions to ensure compliance, etc. Therefore, it was natural for Norway to choose this key instrument, which will provide fairly guaranteed emission reductions, also marked, important volume, by joining the ETS Directive. I also believe that it is not only important for us to be able to implement the Mongstad project within the framework of rules accepted in Europe, but it also increases the scope for dissemination of what we do – if Mongstad succeeds – that we have it closely integrated into European cooperation. I am absolutely convinced that if Europe is not the task of growing up, we will not be able to transport technology or influence international negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e731	I want to go back to the Services Directive. I have no doubt that the Government is working hard on matters, and the Foreign Minister also confirms that the Government will come back to Stortinget with a broad orientation, with a conclusion. We've been on us for three years, he says. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs, however, lift a little on the veil and give an indication of what time this will happen – in the fall, next year or later?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e738	I am basically skeptical to veil in any form, so I can take it completely away and say that we are working on that matter with the thoroughness the matter requires. Important political decisions shall be taken by the Government on the Government’s view of it. We have chosen a wide-ranging consultation procedure, receive many input, analyse the need for legislative changes, carefully assess how we can implement an active and complete policy against social dumping, outside the Services Directive and within the Services Directive. When we're clear, the government makes its decision, and we come to the Storting in the usual way. To that, we don't need a veil, neither to cover or to illustrate. That's the way it is, and then we're going to give a very thorough orientation for the Storting and draw the Storing with it the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e743	It has become a feature of the Government’s energy policy that one has given bombastic promises that one has not provided room for action in relation to the EU and ESA to implement. We, who were in the election campaign as representatives of the then government parties, were told that it was a matter of willingness to implement an industrial power regime that provided the industry with cheap power. Now we know that the Council of State has returned from Brussels with a clear message that it cannot be implemented, and now the Government is going to be in the think-box. Similarly, in the case of Mongstad, bombastic guarantees were given when questions were asked about the EU’s possible position on this. Among other things, we received: in a debate with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, clear assurance that the arrangements would be implemented as described. The finance minister said that she could guarantee with her heart that Mongstad is ready with sewage treatment plants in 2012. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs today join such a guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e748	I believe that with this huge challenge facing our country and, basically, the whole world, to find lasting technological solutions to the challenges of CO2 emissions, one must have a strong political will and define one's major goals. The government has done that. In my opinion, it would be a little ambitious if we had gone after all sorts of objections and restricted the ambitions before we launch them. We've done this in a way where we set a clear goal. We are now recording that the EU shares this objective. We record that the EU meets us with interest, because we are in the forefront of experience in this area. We're at the forefront because we've started early. The sum of that is that I agree with the Prime Minister that this is what we are going to do, because it is the common challenge of Norway, Europe and the whole world. Maybe it's between 30 and 50 pst. of the answer there. Then we'll have to take it step by step and have the ambitions with us when we deal with the futures we have in relation to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e757	I note that the Labour Party can cooperate with a party which is against NATO, which is against the EEA, which is against Schengen and which has repeated this resistance even in government. They think it's all right for government cooperation, but they can't talk to the Progress Party about climate, despite the fact that we've wanted to talk. We have proposed reducing CO2 emissions, etc. That logic will be allowed the Foreign Minister to explain later. I would rather go back to the climate quota law. The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke of a level playing field as a basis for the climate allowance law, despite the fact that, on the recommendation of the Government, the Stortinget decided that we should have a stricter climate quota law in Norway than in the EU, where, in particular, all new industrial activities in Norway established after 2001 and all existing activities after 2001 will not receive a single free quota. Not a single free quota! These are not the same framework conditions as in the EU. Then I ask, did the Council of State in its previous reply mean that he still opened up to allocate free allowances to that industry, depending on what one receives in response to the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e767	I want to ask for respect for the fact that this is not my subject area as State Council. There must be good answers to that from the responsible state councils. On the quota side, it's the Minister of Finance. At the same time, I would like to say that Norway has chosen to define an ambitious starting point in its review and submission to the Climate Change Act. We have chosen our reference period, and we have chosen to face a system where everyone has to pay for allowances. What it's about now is to be able to connect us to the European system. It has to be done in a way that the EU accepts. We have had thorough negotiations on this, and we have been able to put forward a scheme that we believe should give us that solution. Then there are normal consultations and normal contacts with ESA, and during that period we will of course go in and be listening and make sure that the system that comes is as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e774	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e777	One of the formulations that I am looking for when such a statement is presented is the overall thoughts about the EEA Agreement. I am therefore very pleased that this government too makes it very clear that the EEA Agreement is of mutual benefit to the parties. It's a natural, banal sentence that doesn't necessarily say so much, but that establishes the basics, that we're going to make the best possible out of an EEA agreement that we probably have to live with for a good few years to come. It is then important that both government and growth through such a debate, through the work being done by the government, and through the work being done on the Storting, focus on how we can get the best out of cooperation. I think it's taken proper action both in this house and in the Government to exploit this cooperation better, look at, of course, that the EU is changing, but that we too can change, how we target our attitudes, how we get into a previous intervention. Here, a good piece of work is done. A support bar in the EEA thinking is a level playing field for business throughout the EEA area. We assume that this is still a fundamental principle. Although we feel a certain concern that it may be diluting, we do not think it is the Government's intention and meaning, but that we are actively working to ensure that our business life has the same conditions as business in the EU. I would like to comment on some of the issues raised by the Foreign Minister in his statement, including: the financial instrument now extended to Romania and Bulgaria. I have previously commended the Government for establishing a separate bilateral arrangement in which partnership with Norwegian actors was viewed. I think it can be a model that can be developed in future negotiations with new Member States, and perhaps also revision of existing schemes. In the future, I believe that we must try to give priority to targeting these funding mechanisms against the poorest countries. After all, we need to believe in the dynamics of many of these countries, both in terms of democracy and economic development, and that many of the new EU countries, which we can still see as new ones, are moving towards a positive development of wealth, thus gradually phasing them out, so that we can focus resources on those countries that need it the most. I think that is necessary, especially when we see that some of the old EU countries are still involved in schemes. We have to take that grip just in order to defend the arrangements. Otherwise, they become a little incomprehensible to taxpayers and internally to the EU. The EU's internal processes have been said to be actively following them. It is always a debate on how many views we should have on the EU enlargement process and the EU Treaty revisions. I think we should allow ourselves to have opinions where we feel that our opinions are relevant, where we feel that what is happening in the EU is relevant and interesting to us. In many cases, enlargements of the European Union are relevant to us, and we should dry out our point of view. Finally, I will focus on the EU's foreign and security policy, which is and will become more important. There are many common interests, not least in meeting with the outside world. Whether it is the Middle East, aid policy or WTO issues, there are many things we need to talk to the European Union about, but I would like to dwell a little on how coordinated the European Union really is and how far the European Union is really willing to go. Norway has some important interests, not least in relation to our northern regions, and not least in relation to Russia. Will it not be that the EU's capitals, the EU's Member State, will remain the main interlocutors of the special Norwegian foreign policy interests in the future, and that, therefore, it is to a lesser extent the EU, as a joint body, with which we will be able to have discussions, for example. on the challenges in the north? Kosovo is a challenge for an EU as a whole, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement. No matter what the EU does, I would say that it is a challenge for Norway. I would also like to say that it is not necessarily the case that Norway has to act as a blue copy of what the EU is doing. The fact that we are outside the EU can also mean that in such a context we make independent choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e796	The representative, Mr Sørfonn, described the Reform Treaty as a Hindu-soul migration and called for an indication of whether the Treaty would result in an increased transfer of sovereignty. EU cooperation is a transfer of sovereignty. It is necessary if international cooperation is to be binding. How else would it be binding, if the countries are not willing to give up sovereignty? I should have liked that to have Sørfonn's assessments, because I think Sørfonn agrees that we need committed international cooperation. How will Sørfonn describe Norway’s situation, which has transferred sovereignty to 27 neighbouring countries and has itself waived its voting rights? I don't know if he can find inspiration in Hinduism, but I think he should reflect a little on that problem. The EU Reform Treaty raises new challenges in our relationship with EU cooperation. I want to point to some of them. The Treaty will reinforce the developments we have already seen, namely that the EU initiatives see all policy areas and actions in the context. Two current issues illustrate this in a good way: the Green Paper on Energy and Climate and the Blue Paper on Maritime Policy. These processes will be reflected in many policies that will cover different areas. It's going to be unclear what's relevant to the EEA and what's not. It will be a challenge for the EFTA countries. Will Liechtenstein also be involved in taking the things Norway and Iceland see themselves serving from the blue book on maritime policy into the EEA Agreement? The Reform Treaty increases the power of the European Parliament. It provides a basis for increasing the use of so-called soft legislation and other methods of developing a common policy, methods that are not captured by the EEA Agreement instruments for the participation of EFTA countries in the processes and the care of their interests. It challenges our ability to take care of our interests. Two relevant Directives, REACH and the Services Directive, have undergone extensive changes during the treatment of the European Parliament. In that process, the EFTA countries were all on the sidelines. It weakens the value of the influence we can do under the agreement, in expert groups and to the Commission, and the lobbying we can do to the governments of individual Member States. The structure of the EEA Agreement requires that there is a clear distinction between the internal market and that which falls outside it. But for the EU countries, this is completely uninteresting. Two current examples are the European ETS and the EU's work on migration challenges. This development raises new demands for the cohesion between three very different EFTA countries, for which there has been little attention. We've seen it clearly when it comes to the quota system. Norway was all about wanting this into the EEA Agreement, which delayed its work. We have also seen this in relation to the Directive on the right of third-country nationals to reside, where we were very close to a reservation situation. At the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committee between the EFTA and the European Parliament next week, we will discuss what challenges the Reform Treaty can create for the EEA Agreement in the years ahead. Here we will be able to get important input into the assessment that we ourselves have to make and that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has announced that the Government will take the initiative. The question that arises is whether Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein can continue to address these issues on a case-by-case basis or whether there is a need to look at the structure of the EEA Agreement itself. The representative Erling Sande’s desire to look at the EEA Agreement can be fulfilled quickly, but perhaps not with the perspective he has in mind. The EEA Agreement provided the basis for a much deeper integration into EU cooperation than the old trade agreement did. Not only are we in the internal market, we also have access to the many cooperation programmes launched by the European Union, and we are involved in nearly 30 different ones. We are part of ten of the agencies, which are important instruments for the management and development of legislation in different areas. The 1997 Schengen Agreement brought us into cooperation in the area where cooperation between EU countries has developed most strongly in recent years. Norway has 53 cooperation agreements with the EU in total. In fact, Norway has such extensive cooperation with the EU that we are more integrated into EU cooperation than the Member State of the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded his statement, we are referred to as responding to the initiatives coming from the EU. It also calls for the reflection to be stimulated by the Government through an active European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e824	Let me start when the last speaker ended, and where the Foreign Minister also concluded his statement, namely that the statement shows that ‘our task is to respond to initiatives coming from the EU and do what we can to safeguard Norwegian interests and influence with our eyesight’. It was after a presentation that confirmed the importance of EU legislation and developments in a wide range of important areas of action, and in finding solutions in key issues of which we are involved in Norwegian domestic policy. The EU is not a foreign policy. These are framework conditions in order to be able to implement much of the policy we are committed to finding solutions. Over the last 20 years, the challenges we face in everyday life have increasingly shifted across borders. Globalisation has its effect on it, the environmental problems, the refugee movements and all the other things that make us closer together, not least in a much stronger integrated international economy. We are a small country with an open economy, is one of the doctrines that I think everyone who has studied social economy and other has learned. It means quite a lot also for what kind of policy we are pursuing, and for how important it is that we participate in international arenas to ensure good framework conditions around the rules and systems that are to govern and organise the international economy and international cooperation. We have received one demand as everyday examples of what our domestic contract with the EU really means, by how we now have problems related to CO2 capture. Yes, it is not that our problem is that the European Union has legislation. The problem is that we don't sit on the inside of the design of that code. Our problem is also that we have a government that made up a pace and sold a pace around this matter that was carefully prepared between the government partners so that SV would not have to swallow more camels, and that did not take into account that we have an international regulation to deal with through the EU, also means that it must be included in the schedule. That is why the opposition is also responding because it was said last autumn that ESA and the EU were not a problem in relation to the timetable. We have repeatedly asked for presentations and other – yes, the Energy Committee asked questions in connection with the examination of St.prp. No 49 for 2006-2007 on cooperation in the management of CO2 in Mongstad, whether the results of the governance dialogue had been with ESA in this area, whether the Council of State could ensure that ESA would accept the State aid for CO2 cleaning in Mongstad, with a view to obtaining a formal response that, if, in the case of – and this is in April, and in the case of the predecessors of the Minister of Energy, there would be some state aid in the new technology company, it would be notified in accordance with the usual rules. No concern was expressed. Nor was it confirmed at the time that it could be about state aid, which all of us have known since day one with this project, that it is going to be at all levels. The government may have worked towards the EU and ESA in a correct and formal way, but I believe it has not worked in relation to the ambitions of the Government itself withdrew to have an active European policy, to be in front, to be in dialogue, to be there and talk. We have now gone through the entire correspondence that we have been sent related to these matters. I think there is a lack of information for Stortinget when, in a letter from the last Minister of Energy from April, we can read that there is no indication at all to the Stortinget about the turmoil that two councillors have expressed during the last few days, namely that the timetable and other things do not hold. Until April it was possible to give the impression to Stortinget that it was not certain that there would be State aid in this technology company, and that it was therefore only likely. If that was the real attitude in the government at that time, you slept in the class. If it wasn't the real attitude in the government at that time, you've actually had trouble talking honestly to the Stortinget. I think that is a problem in this matter. The problem is that it seems that the Minister of Energy is trying to blame the EU for poor planning, for deadlines set for internal affairs in the Government. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e850	The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e853	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a comprehensive briefing on the matter. It was especially gratifying that the themes of the environment and climate were given such a great place in the orientation he gave. It is an important point for the Central Party that these briefings allow us to take the heart of what is happening in the EU and in the intersection between Norway and the EU and the EEA. The Secretary of State said it was done in a good way. We are from the Centre Party's side, in agreement with the Council of State when he says so clearly: 'Our countries must set up the economic system so that laws and regulations draw people and businesses in a more climate-friendly direction, in terms of both consumption and production.' And also: 'In addition to knowledge and co-responsibility, there must be an economic motivation for businesses, municipalities and individuals to reduce their emissions.' The central party wants Norway to show its way in environmental policy. One of the most important steps would be to accept the principle that environmental concerns are the overarching of market forces. The Minister for Oil and Energy met in Brussels yesterday to discuss the project on CO2 capture and storage. The centre party believes that the project is too important to be stranded in any inconvenience with the EU, and we are following the EU's approach to this issue with great interest. The question of whether the EU will accept State co-financing for the capture and storage of CO2 from gas power plants in Mongstad and Kårstø will show whether the Union has addressed the environmental challenges. We had of course wished that the EU had already clearly signalled a positive attitude towards the necessary state funding of these projects. When the representative Erna Solberg says that the problem is that we are not inside, that is, that we are not members of the European Union, she is turning the whole issue upside down. One gives the impression that if we were members, we would not have had challenges with EU and EEA competition law. It's completely wrong. It's the opposite. In line with the Government's active European policy, the Central Party will work towards rapid and positive clarification in relation to the environmental projects at Mongstad and Kårstø. In addition, the Centre Party would strongly recommend to the EU that important environmental measures be exempted from competition law when the Union is now developing a new legislative framework in this area. Obstacles to effective environmental action will be a signal that developments are moving in the wrong direction. It will lose out on both the environment, Norway and the EU. The EU’s unconcluded detention comes from the interpretation of competition law, of which Norway is part under the EEA Agreement. CO2 capture and storage are very important and positive environmental measures, and it would be totally unthinkable if EU competition legislation were to prevent the realisation of that type of project. A rigid interpretation can prevent a pioneer project that will provide the necessary technology development, a technology Europe and the rest of the world need if we are to meet the commitments that the Kyoto agreement and the world are facing climate crisis. Unfortunately, in general, the EU has been reluctant to put the environment and health ahead of market liberalism and free competition. The Union’s Lisbon strategy to become the world’s most competitive economy builds up under an uncritical philosophy of growth. The Central Party believes that Norway should challenge the EU and its Member States to make a prioritisation between the market and the environment where necessary. Economic growth at the cost of environmental considerations leads to increased consumption and transport. The central party believes that such a policy would lead to a development that is fundamentally wrong if we were to solve the climate challenges. The Norwegian government will reduce CO2 emissions for cars to 120 grams per year. ran kilometers by 2012. In the EU, the limit appears to be set at 130 grams per year. km. In this area too, Norway must challenge the EU to put the environment at the forefront. If Europe is to achieve its objectives, we are dependent on being able to stimulate a positive technological development. The EU has stated that they will initially cut climate emissions by a minimum of 20 pst. by 2020. Norway has seen a 30 pst target. climate-cut. Norway shall meet the Kyoto commitments by 10 pst. and be carbon neutral by 2050. To achieve these objectives, a political vision must be different from the greatest possible economic growth. The Central Party supports the Foreign Minister's signal that laws and regulations in Norway will help to draw our country in a more climate-friendly direction. We cannot allow competition law to underpin climate policy. The implementation of effective measures is crucial if we are to solve the climate challenges, and I believe that the EU knows it. Therefore, I am sure that there is a solution to the challenges associated with the capture and storage of CO2 that the Government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e900	I would also like to stress the positive fact that we are now receiving an EU and EEA statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs every six months. Let me add, as we've heard all day, that we're a European country. We are outside the EU, and we are outside the EU's decision-making bodies. But we are not just integrated into the EU's internal market through the EEA Agreement. We have 53 cooperation agreements with the EU. We are part of the Schengen cooperation. We participate in research cooperation and in a number of other areas. This means that Norwegian interests depend on an active European policy not only on vis-à-vis Brussels and the EU, but also on the individual Member States, as has been emphasised here today. Then it can be stated, as the evening post did in the leadership position yesterday, and as well as the Foreign Minister concluded his statement, that in the work on EU directives and EEA matters, our role in Europe is limited to responding to initiatives coming from the EU. That's now our starting point, and then we have to do what we can to take care of Norwegian interests. That is what the Government is doing, and to an increasing extent the Norwegian population is doing it. We're just in the initial phase of our active European exposure. Despite the EEA Agreement and the other agreements and the form of association with the EU, we are, however, far from the political dynamism that is driving the EU forward, the exciting process that has now resulted in the new Reform Treaty, or, for that matter, in the defence and security policy of the European Union. Yes, even in NATO, we feel that non-NATO countries like Sweden have such an influence, because they participate in EU meetings before important decisions are taken in the alliance on issues related to Euro-Atlantic relations. At the Lisbon Summit on 18 October, the EU agreed on a new reform treaty, which shows exactly what dynamism, not to say rigidity, is driving the EU further. There has been a demanding process. The aim now is for the Treaty to be ratified well in advance of the elections to the European Parliament in June 2009. The Treaty will provide the EU with a new framework for cooperation. I would like to stress what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement: ‘We are constantly serving the functioning of EU cooperation.’ This ensures that our agreements with the EU – including the EEA Agreement – are not blocked. For us, it is important that the Reform Treaty, among other things. means that national parliamentarians and parliaments have a more important role to play in developing new EU legislation. It can strengthen the participation of elected bodies in the legislative process. Then we should be aware that the EU's capacity to act in the field of foreign policy is strengthened. The position of High Representative for Foreign Policy is transformed into a Vice-Presidentship with responsibility for Foreign Affairs, and the Presidency is also firmly established. Finally, let me make some comments on the EU's defence and security policy. Let me stress that I am not willing to do well for what FFI researcher Bjørn Olav Knutsen says in yesterday's Evening Post, that the EU is in the process of taking over the main responsibility for European security, partly at the expense of NATO. For Norway, NATO is the cornerstone of our security policy, and transatlantic and Euroatlantic cooperation is strong. NATO, in addition to being a defence alliance, is also an important forum for the Euro-Atlantic Security Policy debate and has increased its political role and relevance even after enlargement and the PFP programmes. The ESDP has proved to be more robust than many would have predicted. Perhaps we are surprised to note that since 2003, the EU has undertaken a total of 16 major or minor operations. In the Balkans and Africa in particular, the EU has been active. Then, of course, the forces of the EU and NATO can be regarded as Tordenskjold's soldiers under the Berlin plus agreement. Nevertheless, EU operations have been demanding. In Norway, we should be prepared for a new Europe of self-confidence with a new Treaty to be the focus on Europe in a Euro-Atlantic dialogue. This is a major challenge for NATO and for those of us who are outside the EU and the ESDP. Norway has consistently supported the development of EU security and defence cooperation and has also had close contact arrangements. We have also chosen to participate in one of the EU's 'batlegroups' under Swedish leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e923	The Foreign Minister’s presentation contained a number of interesting considerations about the process of achieving a more holistic European maritime policy. Norway has long traditions in maritime industries, and has developed for many years a unique competence in this area, which can be used in this work. Over the centuries, Norwegian shipping has actively contributed to the creation of value added, employment and prosperity across large parts of the country. In addition, shipping has played a major role in safety policy for Norway, and the maritime industries have been at the forefront of international technology development. The government’s proposal to harmonise Norwegian shipping companies’ tax rules with EU rules is, in isolation, an absolute step in the right direction. However, the entry ticket to such a tax system should mean that the so-called tax rebates must be paid is dramatic, and this unfortunately indicates that the government does not understand how important this industry has been and, hopefully, will be to Norway. However, we will have to come back to this in the budget debate. I am very pleased that, in the Foreign Minister's presentation, the focus was on the development of a comprehensive policy in the maritime field. According to the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs, there has been an active participation in this work and the promotion of a number of well-documented proposals and input. Norway has long and good traditions in this area, so that our contribution to the development of maritime Europe is both constructive and helpful. The objectives of the EU's common policy in this area are, in many cases, consistent with Norwegian maritime policy objectives, and I note with satisfaction that the Government therefore adheres to its overall objectives. Sustainable use of seas and seas, the establishment of a broader knowledge and development base for maritime policy, high quality of life in coastal regions, as well as the visibility of maritime Europe, are the pillars of EU policy in this area. The convergence of objectives in this area provides us with a very good basis for further cooperation with the EU and the Member States in the future. I am also pleased with the Government's interest in the EU Commission's Blue Paper on an integrated maritime policy, which has noted some interdisciplinary areas that may be of great interest in further cooperation between Norway and the EU. This applies, inter alia, to: exchange of experience and ‘best practice’ examples in relation to maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone planning and the development of a common European marine observation and data network. A very interesting area for cooperation between Norway and the EU is maritime surveillance activities, where we have great opportunities for further development of existing solutions and new systems. I would like to remind you that, from the Norwegian side, we have also developed skills and experience in this area that it will be important to contribute to such cooperation. The EU shall establish five maritime traffic monitoring centres in Europe. One of these monitoring centres is known to be added to the North Sea basin. Norway should therefore, as a full member of the European Maritime Safety Agency, be a very topical country for such a centrality. I would therefore also like to remind you that the West Coastal Station in Haugesund has developed considerable competence on issues relating to monitoring solutions for shipping, and that a location in a maritime environment where the Maritime Directorate is also located would be very beneficial in this way. I hope that the Foreign Minister will use these clear advantages, the areas of competence we have, and the competences we have gained over many years in this area in Norway, both in terms of the localisation issue for the maritime monitoring centres, and in terms of building the common European maritime policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e944	The day-to-day functioning of Norwegian enterprises is closely interwoven with EU industry. The EU is our most important domestic market. This means that the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises are to a large extent laid down in an EU where Norway has unfortunately placed itself at the same time in all important decision-making processes. At some point Norway should become a member of the EU, as we are now fully integrated, but lacking the last important part on influence and voting rights. In the meantime, it is important that Norway makes use of the opportunities available to get into the processes as early as possible to influence issues that are important for Norwegian interests. Therefore, it seems a little passive when the Foreign Minister is not more ambitious in his statement than he concluded that an important role for Norway is to respond to EU initiatives. It is important to respond to enquiries from the EU, but we need to have a higher level of ambition than waiting for Brussels telephones. There are some specific sectors of industrial policy that are particularly important for Norway. Maritime policy is one of them. The Minister of Foreign Affairs specifically mentioned the work of the Commission's so-called Blue Paper on an integrated maritime policy. Norway has contributed to this important process, including: by the fact that former Fisheries Minister Svein Ludvigsen had Mr Joe Borg on his visit to make his observations. It is still unclear how much the blue paper will have for Norway, but what is clear is that we will not have the opportunity to take part in the finalisation of this work on shaping the EU's overall maritime policy. I think this is a great paradox for one of Europe's most important maritime nations. A holistic approach to the management of the coastal zone in relation to ecology, economics and housing is central to us with a long coastline and great dependence on the sea like food barrels, transport years and recreational areas. A number of the issues raised in the blue paper are not very controversial, but they are significant and may have an impact on Norway’s development as a maritime power. This is an area in which national competition is ongoing between countries, for example: under tax conditions. Unfortunately, the red-green government is far behind and little in harmony with the EU strategy. In the 2008 budget, the Government proposes a transitional arrangement for a new shipping tax system that puts a number of shipping companies along the Norwegian coast far back in their development. The government proposes to charge DKK 14 billion on the transition to a new system, a tax shock that means a reduced coastal investment capacity of maybe three times as much, up to DKK 50 billion in reduced investment capacity. Although the new system will be an isolated step forward, the transition will mean a weakening of the competitiveness of our maritime business. Our competitors in the EU have not given their companies the same tax shock in transition to a new system. This is the government's strange invention, a nearly absurd compromise between anti-business SVs on one side and more pragmatically adjusted Workers' Party and the Center Party on the other. It tells a lot about the red-green marine disaster that the Minister of Economic Affairs of the day yesterday was relaxed that the maritime strategy will first have its final clarification in the Norwegian Supreme Court. Another important issue for Norway is the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, so-called UUU fishing. In areas that we manage together with other nations, there has been extensive UUU fishing over time, which has a significant impact on populations and on Norwegian fishermen’s income. Increased focus from political authorities over a long period of time and improved control regimes have made widespread overfishing visible, especially in the Barents Sea. The focus on UUU fishing has been strong lately as a result of large individual cases, and as a result of agreements coming into place after long-term work. The measures taken have worked to some extent, but the fight against UUU fishing requires considerable efforts for many years to come. It was with interest that I registered that the EU Fisheries Commissioner announced four concrete strategies against UUU fishing on 30 October 2007 in Lisbon. The aim is to eliminate all illegal fishing, first of all to close the EU market against illegal fishery products through a port control system requiring the prior certification of the port State before vessels are allowed to call at EU ports. The second proposal is to establish a blacklist of UUU vessels and countries that do not take this problem seriously. The third is to strengthen the possibilities for EU members to influence penalties on their own vessels which are guilty of participation or support for UUU fishing. The amount of the fines shall be increased so that the economic benefits of illegal fishing do not exceed the level of the fine. The Marine Research Institute recently presented a report showing that illegal fishing was declining for 2007. It's a joyous development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e968	Since we are one of the world's leading shipping nations, the maritime industries play a very important role in Norwegian business. The maritime cluster employs nearly 100,000 people, in all parts of the country. In keeping with our rich traditions, shipping is still our honor and our power. This will probably also be the case in the future, when the shipping industry is over sickening itself as part of the current tax credit campaign. There are also, as we heard, the last two speakers. They may then discover that they are offered very good tax conditions, and then they may become more concerned with exploiting the opportunities created by European competition conditions in reality. Just because shipping is international and dependent on international markets, business cycle and competition rules, it is so important that Norwegian shipping participates in the policy and regulatory developments taking place in the EU. Despite our exclusion, Norwegian shipping authorities have significant influence and influence. As a shipping nation, we are a major force and a leading nation, not least in the development of an international regulation on shipping through our participation in the IMO. It concerns maritime safety, the environment and the welfare systems of seafarers. The EU's efforts to develop a comprehensive maritime policy are undoubtedly of interest to Norway. I am therefore not particularly surprised that the EU's maritime policy is similar to that of Norway, or vice versa. This is, in fact, part of a more comprehensive transport policy, where maritime and land transport meet in hub ports and where the benefits of the various modes of transport are exploited in a more efficient transport system. Here we have a lot to learn from the EU. So we are talking about intermodal ports and the establishment of motorways of the sea, the relief of an overloaded European road network. Color Lines' new ferry concept in traffic across Skagerrak is an expression of this. The new high-speed and efficient car ferries actually create a motorway at sea. I hope that Norwegian business and Norwegian transport authorities will see the scope of what is now happening in Europe. A well-functioning infrastructure and efficient transport system has an invaluable impact on the competitiveness of business. We're losing a chance if we're now hanging out. In its EEA statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed to the need for a more sustainable use of the sea and sea. Maritime transport is environmentally far preferable to car transport, but maritime transport too has its potential for improvement. Increased investment in new types of ships, more efficient machinery and cleaner fuels will undoubtedly contribute to the competitiveness of shipping. The strategic commitment to sustainable growth in EU maritime activities is well in line with the ambitions of the Norwegian Government in the maritime sector. On 3 October the Minister of Industry presented a strategy for growth in the maritime industries. It confirms our ambition for Norway to be a world-leading maritime nation. And not enough, we're going to be world leaders in maritime competence, research and innovation. Our traditions, our broad maritime knowledge and our broad maritime competence, with world-leading companies and research institutions, give us important competitive advantages if we understand how to exploit them. It is hardly a coincidence that a small company in Austevoll in Hordaland is the world leader in ship design. In the context of sustainable and environmentally friendly shipping, Norway can make a significant contribution to European cooperation. Through our participation in the European Space Agency, ESA, Norway is now contributing to programmes where we are able to monitor large sea areas through satellite communications. Better and more precise navigation systems are under development. Norwegian researchers and institutions are currently taking part in a technology development that could have enormous significance, not only for the institutions involved and for European shipping, but for maritime, air and land transport in general. That is why it is so important that we continue to maintain the dialogue channels we have had in the work on EU maritime policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e987	On Sunday 25 March this year, I had the pleasure of being in Berlin and experienced the big people's party in marking 50 years of EU cooperation. It was big, but at the same time especially to experience that almost all European countries were represented, but not we. In cooperation that brings together countries from the Baltic to Portugal, Norway is still on track when decisions are taken. Without the right to vote, we are depriving ourselves of an important influence every day in a series of policy areas that are deeply involved in the interests of our country. One of today's perhaps greatest challenges is the rise in organised crime, which is often cross-border, and which represents a far greater threat to society and society than traditional crime. At the same time, it's harder to fight. Organised crime covers everything from serious child abuse, drug and alcohol smuggling, money laundering and other financial crimes to trafficking in human beings and trafficking in women. There are links to terrorist activities in this category of crime. Combating international crime can only be solved through extensive international cooperation. It underlines the need for Norway to continue to play an active part in international judicial cooperation with a view to combating serious crime and international terrorism. In this work, the EU is very central. The right has been a driving force for Norwegian police to participate actively in international arenas, which can contribute to the more effective fight against cross-border crime. Norway must not become a deserted island, where criminals fleeing from the police authorities of other countries should be able to hide. The right has followed with interest developments in EU judicial and police cooperation. It is a reality that EU cooperation in this field has become more important. Informal cooperation has developed further into a treaty, intergovernmental cooperation, and today important areas are subject to supranational authority. Police cooperation, crime prevention and control and judicial cooperation in criminal matters have become intergovernmental. Through Europol, EU countries have established their own police unit to improve efficiency and prevent and combat serious international crime. Europol has the task of working to combat crime in several areas, such as: illicit trafficking in drugs, illicit trafficking in nuclear material, trafficking in human beings, terrorism and money laundering. There is one problem: only EU countries can become parties to the Europol Convention, thus becoming members of Europol. However, the Commission is opening up the possibility for third countries and international organisations to enter into various forms of cooperation with Europol. In the right, it is positive that Norway, as a non-member country, has reached a cooperation agreement with Europol to combat serious forms of organised crime. From 2001 Norway has participated in the operational Schengen cooperation with Iceland and the EU countries. This cooperation includes, inter alia: that no personal checks are to be carried out when crossing the borders between the Schengen countries. It also involves reinforced police cooperation and enhanced judicial cooperation, which is very important in the fight against cross-border organised crime. A separate computer system, the Schengen Information System, provides Norwegian authorities with access to information that could be important for preventing and combating crime. The Schengen Agreement means that Norway and Iceland participate in the Schengen cooperation on a basis of international law, without conferring competences on the EU institutions. Although Norway is a participant both in Europol and in Schengen cooperation and can benefit from the expertise and information systems available, in the opinion of the Court, it is not sufficient to meet the criminal policy challenges in the future. Norway is a country that can have special needs in some areas, both because we are a country on the edge of the Schengen area and because we have a very long coastline. In particular, in relation to human trafficking and drug traffic, this may lead to a need for specific measures. To the right, it is important to stress that because we are not members of the EU, we do not have the influence that is desirable when designing future police cooperation and the strategy for combating crime in the future. We get to participate in the cooperation, but we have to adapt to the system that the other states think is most appropriate. In the Right's view, this is unsatisfactory. There are therefore also important arguments in the field of justice and police cooperation that should speak for Norway to become a full member of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1013	It's always demanding to go to the front and plow new fields. This is precisely what Norway is doing in terms of CO2 management. We should be proud that we are addressing one of the greatest challenges of our time, namely how to combine increased energy use with good environmental policies. The International Energy Agency foresees an increase of 50 pst in energy consumption. By 2030, and they say that 80 pst. This will be based on fossil fuels, i.e. coal, oil or gas. It's just one thing to say about it, and that's that this isn't sustainable. We simply need to find ways in which we can balance our need to increase energy consumption and protect the environment. We should save energy in Norway, we should do so by sea. We're wasting some of our energy, but we can't tell poor people in the poor part of the world that they won't be allowed to increase their energy consumption. That would be unsolvable. If we said this, we would at the same time say that we believe that they should be trapped in a trap of poverty. We have some tough challenges ahead of us. Norway, which has become rich in oil and gas, has a particular responsibility to help develop technologies that can help us to find this fine balance point in the future. This is where CO2 management comes into the picture. Now we need to talk about CO2 management in an EU and EEA perspective. Let me first underline that we, who want to get to the top of this, should enjoy the commitment we have in the European Commission for CO2 management. We were also confirmed yesterday, when we had conversations with the Commission about this, that they see it as clearly desirable from their point of view that Norway is going ahead in this area, in the sense that we are doing what is possible for us to get up the first full scale CO2 handling facilities. In terms of CO2 management, Norway is not necessarily in the forefront of the EU, but we are in the forefront of planning concrete projects. The EU shall establish 10-12 pilot projects with a view to commercialising this type of technology. They shall do so by 2020. It is not good to say when you start these projects – the pilots – that are planned. It may seem that there is a somewhat extensive process associated with selecting these, but at the same time we know that there might be a British project in pipeline. The fact that we're among the first to work on concrete full-scale projects makes ESA in a difficult situation, because ESA simply has to plough new land. No country has previously notified a CCS project. We – Government – hope that ESA will be able to approve Mongstad Step 1 and that it can be done quickly. The reason why we hope that it can be done quickly is that we are dependent on making investment decisions in the first quarter of 2008, i.e. to spring, so that we can keep the timeframes we want for Mongstad Step 1. Let me underline: it's seamly fully possible. But if we were to end up in a situation where ESA starts a formal investigation, we're facing a time-consuming process, and that's when we want challenges with the timeframes. Because ESA has a demanding task ahead of it, I am glad that in the last few days we have established a process of close contact between ESA, the Commission and Norway. This particular process is an expression of the goodwill and interest of the EU. It is also an expression that it may prove necessary for ESA to take account of EU policy developments in this area in order to assess our notification. It has been, as it may look from my side, some arms and legs from the opposition in connection with this matter in the later days. They have asked questions about – as I see it – the process of notification. Let me say a few words about it. ESA received a copy of the agreement concluded between Statoil and the Government on 12 October last year on Mongstad, immediately after its conclusion. I would like to make it clear that the agreement itself is subject to approval by Stortinget and ESA. This is duly mentioned in St.prp. No 49 for 2006-2007 on cooperation in the management of CO2 in Mongstad. It's at point 5, page 7. Last November we had the first meetings with ESA at the office level, where the matter was explained, the agreement was reviewed and the background was given. It was already made clear at the time that ESA would need clarification on the issue of State aid, both in relation to Mongstad and in relation to Kårstø. Since then, a number of work meetings have been held with ESA. They were held beyond spring. The dialogue was used to calibrate the content and format of a notification. One important milestone in the work with Mongstad, step 1, was the agreement with several industrial actors that we want involved in the project, and those who follow along well will know that this agreement did not take place until June last year. Mongstad, phase 1, was notified on July 4. Let me also mention that in addition to the meetings I have mentioned, there have been a number of meetings between the Ministry and the Commission to inform about the development of our CCS projects and where the relationship with State aid legislation has been discussed. In addition, one will now be aware that there have been a number of meetings between representatives of the Commission, from the Member States and from the political level of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The process we've had with ESA and the Commission in this area is a necessary part of the ordinary process in such matters. This shall ensure that the State aid issue is properly addressed on the basis of the applicable rules. Let me just say in the end that we hope that we will be able to keep the deadline. There are still a number of questions to be answered by ESA and the Commission. We think we have good answers here, but ESA is facing a demanding problem. We're going to do everything possible on our part to make it possible to meet the deadlines that we want, because we have great ambitions in this field, and we want to live up to our ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1060	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1063	Let me first say to the Council of State that I fully agree with the picture she initially draws in terms of the world's energy supply, needs and challenges. That's the same picture that the Progress Party drew when we took the initiative for a thorium debate in the Stortinge a year ago. That's good we're on the line there. Then we get to hope that we also find realistic solutions, so that the objectives are met by practical policies. In the case of Mongstad, on the other hand, the Council of State should not be surprised that the opposition reacts when one feels that one was led a little behind the light of the Government's light-winds when the Storting dealt with the matter in April – and then the Government itself is coming to overdramatise this. After all, the Stortinget has been led to believe that this was a simple matter, and it turns out that this can be both expensive and time-consuming in relation to what the Government describes. And we're not blinded by promises, but we're waiting for the government to actually deliver. One important prerequisite for Mongstad was that Norwegian business should be an active part. [[The President clubs.]] Opens the Government and EEA calls for Norwegian business to be centralized in Mongstad [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1072	First of all, let me say that I totally disagree that the government is somehow helping to overdramatize. We were asked by the representative of Solberg to come to the EEA Committee and to brief them on the status of this work. We were there 14 days ago, and we were briefed, and we started off on what was then the situation, and it's still the situation. I think it's right to keep the Storting informed about the real development. As regards the issue of Norwegian business related to Mongstad, the representative will be aware of the development of interesting industrial cooperation with different actors. These are the actors we are now having further discussions with, with a view to an investment decision in the first quarter of 2008. How this will end to the seventh and last, remains to be seen, but one will in any case know that StatoilHydro is the central player in this work. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1079	The President will again remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1082	The government has not informed the Storting at any time in this process, except on the initiative of the Storting itself. That's what I'm worried about. All the information has come because you have demanded to be informed. That's why the government's new concerns become a little bit special. I feel that the reason we have now had this debate is that the Haga Council used the opportunity to owe it to the European Union. She does not take self-criticism for what is the main point of this matter, namely that this takes time because the government itself has not quite known what it was doing, when it started this process. Thus, it was written to the Stortinget in April that ‘where state aid was to become applicable’ – at a time when everyone knew that State aid was likely to be granted, but one lived in a world where state aid was not clarified. And now the questions ESA raises to the Council of States, also related to which state aid comes in phase 2, and the Government has no answer to this. That's why we have trouble.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1089	I take note that the representative Solberg would like to see Stortinget further informed about the whole process. Then I can just say from my point of view here, that then we'll try to make it better later. I'm going to the Stortinget on all the occasions I'm being asked for, as I did when the representative Solberg took the initiative to inform the EEA Committee. With regard to the claim of maritime criticism or to blame someone, I do not believe that there is any reason to take any maritime criticism for the Government in this matter. There is also no reason to ‘guilt on the EU’, as it is said here. We would have liked the situation to be different in terms of regulatory development, but there is something quite different. The question of State aid is extremely complicated and the representative of Solberg has probably read the notification – it is primarily based on a notification based on the State as a market player. [[The President clubs.]] In this case, the state aid situation is different from the notification for other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1098	For one who is in a minority in his own party with regard to the view of the European Union, it was at least nice that it looked as if the Council of State had a good time in Brussels when she was there. What may be more worrying is what came out of the meeting. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the clear assessment that the Council of State is now making – that the Storting will be continuously briefed on the occasion of the case. My question is related to the more detailed issue in ESA and in the Commission. We know that the CO2 management mission has been given to StatoilHydro without any competition. My question is, is this what particularly concerns the Commission? And, has the government underestimated that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1110	The answer to the specific question is definitely no, it's not at all a topic in the discussions with ESA. The challenge facing ESA is that they have to rely on existing EU legislation today. There is as much political process as one might say is at the forefront of legislative development. That's exactly ESA's dilemma. So we're trying to argue to ESA that it's important that they use their discretion. We understand that they have to work on the basis of existing legislation, but we want them to also put in a good dose of discretion so that they can take into account the political process that is going on in the EU – that is, a very positive political process, seen with our eyes. We're dedicated to getting important CCS projects up and running as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1118	It is well known that the Mongstad compromise was the result of a bang-hard internal struggle in the government. What now stands out is a design that one did not have quality assurance, and that one did not provide from day one to follow up so that it could be implemented. The result is that ESA is now asking for information that should have been provided a long time ago. Governments say the result can be a time-consuming and delaying process. Thus, Kristin Halvorsen's guarantee, with his hand on his heart, appears that this was to be realized in 2014 at Mongstad, which a deterioration of a defeat SV had to endure when one did not receive cleaning and expansion at the same time. It appears like it, and not as a promise or an ambition to realize it in 2014. Can the Council of State understand that the opposition felt cheated when our repeated questions about whether this was anchored in relation to ESA/EU were answered with an absolute yes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1125	I am proud to sit in a government that takes great care of CO2 management. Unlike the previous government, which did not take any action in relation to this, one now has a government that really takes offensive action. It's demanding to go to the front. We're ploughing new ground in this area. It is demanding in relation to EEA legislation, it is demanding technologically. But we are going into this with the greatest enthusiasm and zeal – an zeal that the whole government is behind, seafaringly speaking – and with the clear aim that we should be able to follow up the great ambitions set out in the Mongstad agreement. It's a tight time span, but to put it so simply: it requires the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1135	I find that the Council of State is new to the job and therefore does not have sufficient personal experience from the work that took place around Mongstad in April at Stortinget, nor does it understand the basis for the criticism. I'll leave it to you. But I'm recording that in April, the Energy and Environment Committee took this up. Then there was no particular concern on the part of the Government, as if this were going well. The red-green batches in the committee also did not address the issue in the comments in the vote. It shows, in my view, that the government parties have taken this very lightly. Then it's a little hollow to come today and express this concern, as if the government has had it for a long time. Back to Mongstad: The council said that in conversation with the actors you should try to get this done. But are these actors Norwegian, or are they foreign? Meg is well-known, after talks with industry and industry, no Norwegian actors, either on Kårstø or Mongstad, are prequalified to participate in this great moon landing. The Committee clearly expressed its view that the Norwegian industry was supposed to be the operators here. [[The President clubs.]] Then I ask the Council of State to respond to this: Is it appropriate for some Norwegian actors to be strongly involved today? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1146	In the case of Mongstad, Statoil is the dominant company, and the company with which we have agreed. That's essentially Statoil, now StatoilHydro, which is the basis for the development of Mongstad, and then we're going to see which other actors we want with us in the long term. It's as Norwegian as it can be. As far as Kårstø is concerned, we are in the process of clarifying the basis of competition. When the competition is clear, I would like to have a discussion with the representative. So it will be up to Norwegian business how they will relate to the basis of competition. This is at work, and it comes around the next turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1153	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1156	The world gets smaller, we travel more, and the borders are more open – between countries and on the Internet. This gives us new challenges in the fight against crime. Cross-border crime causes considerable economic losses to individuals and society. It can undermine safety and stability in everyday life, and it is advanced and professionalised to such an extent that it can be extremely complicated to reveal. This means that effective countermeasures must be developed at all times. It is important that Norway participates in international cooperation in the field of justice. I would like to say to the representative of Aspaker that Norway and the Government are offensive in this area. Among the multinational arenas, Europe, and hence the EU, is important. EU cooperation in the wider field of justice policy, including those covered by Schengen cooperation, is characterised by significant developments. New legislation is being developed and new policy initiatives are being taken. Our agreement with the EU on participation in Schengen cooperation is the most important and comprehensive agreement on justice policy of this nature. The police’s ability to prevent and solve crime has improved following Norway’s agreement with the EU to participate in both Europol and Eurojust, which are EU police and prosecution cooperation bodies. We are also linked to the EU Conventions on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. This is how we now have both legal bases and the necessary tools for resolving organised crime issues. By also participating in the EU External Border Control Coordination Body, Frontex, we are involved in an important effort to prevent cross-border crime. Work on organised, cross-border crime is now a major priority in the EU. The fight against drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings and prostitution, as well as money laundering from such crime, must take place in an international context. The Internet has also given us major challenges. child abuse images. The major issue under way, which comes from Australia, is an example of the importance of cooperation between countries in order to obtain results. Recently, the EU has decided to implement parts of the so-called Prüm Convention, which provides access to a faster and more extensive exchange of police information between countries. It is not least about sharing information from DNA and fingerprint registers. This provides the opportunity to solve serious crime. The cooperation provided by the Prüm Convention clearly improves the possibilities for cross-border police cooperation in relation to today's opportunities. The government wants Norway to associate itself with this cooperation. From the Norwegian side, we are also working intently to reach agreements with the EU and individual countries on the transfer of settlement prisoners, so that they can be moved from Norwegian prisons to prisons in their home countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1180	Let me first of all thank the Foreign Minister for a good presentation on Tuesday. – I think it expressed the view that many important areas are covered for Norway and the rest of Europe. It is probably also a fact that one of the bearing elements of the Foreign Minister pointed out is that you are not able to solve things alone, you have to do it together. The challenge is to find a good balance point, where we can take care of our strange interests, while working well with others involved. There we have different agreements to do that. It is clear that Norway and Europe also face many challenges in common, including outside Europe, such as: The situation in Afghanistan, which I believe is one of the biggest challenges we have per year. today. Although Norway is a small country in terms of population, we are a major economic power. I guess we're such a big deal that our economy is sometimes a challenge and a problem. In this way, I think it is welcomed by others who can benefit from it – and we should, of course, contribute in the areas where we think it is right. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs took over and presented some of the important judicial cooperation that is taking place. There is no doubt that crime does not know borders and that Norway too is exposed to serious and serious cross-border crime. If we're going to fight this, we're going to have to do it together. We can have as many rules, regulations, laws, policemen and lawyers as we want, but we can't stop it that way. I also believe that for every penny we invest in cooperation, we will get tens of dollars back here. It is also likely that any sensible investment The size is involved, should in fact be noted and strengthened. In this way, the fight against international crime is an important tool. That being said, it's probably also a fact that we have a little bit to deal with in some areas. The previous speeches referred to the fight against international child pornography, and then I find it regrettable that some of the material we came across in 2002 is still there and is not completed by the police in Norway. In my opinion, this is due to a lack of resources. So even if the government says that you've never invested as much as you do now, it's not good enough. The question is, what can we accept? Can we accept that we know that there are lots of images that have not been identified? These charges have not been initiated. If that's the government's threshold for acceptance and tolerance, I take note of it, but at the same time I think it's disappointing. I believe that we have an obligation to fight child pornography by all legal means, and we shall do so. Any society that does not represent the weakest of the weakest is, in my opinion, a society without the necessary empathy, understanding, and not least to take on the seriousness of this type of crime. I will also be allowed to point out what is positive, for example. Eurojust, Europol and Schengen cooperation. However, Schengen cooperation also poses other challenges – and so does the EU – when new Member States are introduced. There I think it's a challenge to have quality assurance, that you have a good enough system to actually take on the qualitative by being a member. Of course, it's something you work with during the processes where you pre-qualify. But it's probably a fact that there's been some incidents, for example. In the case of influxes of refugees, where countries located in the outer border may have been at the top of their tolerance and let these people through — and rather look at what was going to happen afterwards. Because even if we are in Schengen, and even if it is an outer limit, cooperation does not seem exactly as we would have liked and believed. That being said, the last thing I want to point out is what I discussed with the Minister of Justice on Tuesday about international police cooperation. This applies to the exchange of persons convicted here in the country but who have a different nationality from Norwegian. There I will give tribute to what the Minister of Justice and the Government have done. I sincerely hope that they will continue their work, for that is necessary for all of us. It will address some of the challenges we have here in the country. But there is another factor here that I think is important, and that is that it will give these countries a status given that they will be involved and take responsibility for what their own citizens do in other countries. I actually think the nations concerned will appreciate that very much. Not least, we will have a great deal of understanding of the fact that we are taking responsibility for our own citizens, not just for two hands and saying, 'This has happened in another country, and that is not the case with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1197	At the beginning of today's big meeting, I promoted a proposal for a representative, asking the Government to present a big message on migration and the EU. There's a lot of reasons for that – I'll mention three important things: First, there is increasing migration in the world, and there are many challenges to it. Secondly, the increase in migration leads to a different approach to domestic and foreign policy. Thirdly, it is becoming increasingly important to see the link between development and migration policies and inclusion and integration policies. Migration is a topic of the Foreign Minister's presentation, and that's good. I share many of the views. However, it is not good that Norway sits on the sidelines of Europe – without membership, no voting rights. There is, in any case, no adequate solution just to respond to EU initiatives. We should be a full member. 200 million. people live abroad. Why do they do that? Well, people study, people work, and they settle outside the country of birth or refugees from war, assault or persecution. Another cause is hunger and natural disasters. In addition, today's wave of migration must be said to be part of globalisation. Extensive media images from the rich part of the world lead many to seek happiness in Western countries, and better communications make this possible to a far greater extent than before. Although border controls in the EU have been reinforced, Europe is still under heavy pressure from young people in sub-Saharan Africa. In addition, Europe tops the wish list for most asylum seekers in the world. There is a great potential for development in migration. Europe needs a reserve of labour, and people come here with knowledge and competence, while bringing resources back to their home country. Voluntary migration creates positive driving forces. Migration policy, trade policy, development policy and aid policy can be seen in a positive context. Voluntary migration and development are interrelated, and in most cases both the country of origin and the country of destination will be economically served by controlled migration. Among the exceptions is the risk of loss of skills that poor countries sorely need — and that is a challenge. Another challenge, and there I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is to find a good balance between transparency and control. It is also a challenge that part of migration is illegal. In this context, there will be many tragic fates. Slave-like pay and employment can be something, it can be sex trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Many illegal immigrants are subjected to abuse and violations of human rights and are exploited by greedy employers. This clearly presents us with challenges in many policy areas, and this has also been demonstrated by the debate here today. Internationally, the relationship between foreign and development policies and migration, integration and inclusion policies is increasingly being discussed. In the right, it is of great importance that Norway participates in the discussions and processes taking place outside the world, especially in Europe, as the investigation also points out. Prevention and response to refugee challenges will have an impact on the way Norway is affected by international conflicts. However, this requires better coordination of Norwegian development and migration policies, in particular migration in Norway. These are some of the reasons why I have today promoted the proposal where I ask the Government to make a big message on this topic. I want to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs and ask whether he also agrees that it is now necessary to see this whole large area in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1218	A more and more important area in terms of our relationship with the EEA/EU is environmental and energy cooperation. It was therefore both gratifying and necessary that the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave such emphasis to this in his statement. The alarming pace of climate change that we can now observe in Arctic areas requires a very strong political focus and initiative in relation to environmental and energy policy, not only in our own country, but of course also worldwide. I chair the Environment and Natural Resources Committee at the Nordic Council – a committee that has energy policy as one of its main areas of work. Although the five Nordic countries have different links with the EU, it is gratifying to see a stronger and stronger joint Nordic commitment in the field of environment and energy, as well as the cooperation of these countries with the neighbouring countries of the Nordic countries. The forthcoming climate summit in Bali will hopefully provide a platform for a complete and comprehensive climate agreement, at least in terms of the process towards the follow-up to Kyoto after 2012, but hopefully also a table of content. And then we have to believe that at the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, one can fill the gap between the scope of the Kyoto mechanisms and what is needed to involve all the nations of the world in a common promise to save the world's climate. The world has a common framework to deal with, namely The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. And this is needed, because the countries that have undertaken numerical commitments under the Kyoto Protocol account for only 30 pst. of the global emissions. This percentage is lower for each year, as countries outside the Kyoto commitments increase their emissions overall. I would also like to mention that the Nordic countries as a whole, by decision of the Nordic Council of Ministers on the initiative of the parliamentarians of the Nordic Council, have decided on a strong joint Nordic effort towards the UN Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen and during the Conference. Nordic actions and values shall be made visible. The Kyoto Agreement is so far the most important international framework for the fight against climate change. There are now very few who deny the man-made climate change. Perhaps it could be enough to point out that ice core drilling shows that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere is the highest in 650 000 years! The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has increasingly demonstrated the likelihood of anthropogenic climate change and the threats it poses to the environment and people. Through Ot.prp. No 66 for 2006-2007 and the treatment of this by the Storting, we provided the basis for linking ourselves to the EU ETS from 2008. As the case rapporteur for this law, it is easy to conclude that we have thus, and until now, adopted the most stringent climate quota legislation in the world. We have committed ourselves to a lower total allocation of free allowances than any EU country in relation to total emissions from the activities subject to allowances. The system we have set up will stimulate individual companies to reduce their emissions. The climate allowances scheme is the main operational tool for reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. We can exploit all three mechanisms of the Kyoto Agreement, i.e.: trade in emission project cooperation between developed countries that have ratified the Kyoto Agreement – this is what we call Joint Implementation Project Cooperation with developing countries, the so-called CDM – Clean Development Mechanism We are on track when we say in Norway that we do not want free allowances after 2012. This is something we should consider. We barely get on with just idealism compared to reduced emissions. It must cost to pollute and release greenhouse gases. I expect that the EU will now seriously set itself the same goals, which is why it should be believed. As Norway has joined the EU ETS, we will also be able to play a role in establishing a common quota allocation system. It will be good for the environment, and it can remove the concerns of Norwegian companies that Norway should have a persistently stricter climate quota system than our neighbours and competitors have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1257	Pending full membership of the EU, and while we are committed to ‘responsive to initiatives coming from the EU’ – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs put it – it is the EEA Agreement that aims to ensure as much as possible a level playing field for trade and economic relations in Europe. Norwegian exports and trade with other countries in the internal market are important for Norwegian value creation, and therefore for well-being. In the absence of membership, the agreement gives us conditions that ensure predictability and conditions under which Norwegian business can develop. The agreement is not only rights but also obligations – obligations towards Norwegian and international businesses, which, in addition to the legislation, will comply with these obligations. Therefore, it is important that, while responding to initiatives, at least we do not undermine the obligations of EEA legislation. I have registered the Minister of Foreign Affairs' public amazement in the autumn of one of the Minister of Finance's tax proposals in the next year's budget. My concern goes on a few other of her tax proposals, which seem to be, to say the least, questionable in relation to the EEA obligations. Firstly, a significant change in the obligation of foreign shareholders to pay taxes on dividends from Norwegian limited liability companies is proposed. Today, such shareholders are exempt from tax when they are members of the EEA territory. Following the government's proposal, they shall be exempted only when operating so-called real economic activities in the home country, and the question that then arises is how Norwegian listed companies will be able to clarify how several thousand foreign shareholders operate in their home country. It is, of course, insurmountable, and it is inconveniently bureaucratic. This must be done because withholding taxes are to be deducted from dividends paid to companies in advance. But no Norwegian company shareholders are obliged to pay taxes on the same dividend. It follows from the exemption model of the tax reform. And so there is considerable discrimination between Norwegian and foreign companies, because there are also tens of thousands of Norwegian company shareholders who are not operating so-called real economic activities, as defined in the proposition. In the context of the tax reform, it is known that very many personal holding companies were established which do not have this content. Therefore, EEA shareholders are discriminated against in Norway, which is contrary to the fundamental freedoms set out in the Agreement. The same proposition also proposes that the relocation of Norwegian SEs, European companies, should lead to full taxation of profits on all assets of the company based on market values at the time of the relocation. In that case, all unrealised gains are taxed, and this gain will be taken into account at the end of the day when the Norwegian tax liability ceases. What is not mentioned in the proposal is that this conflicts with the way in which the European Commission perceives the position of these companies in relation to the EEA Agreement. In a report of 19 December last year, the Commission takes the view that a company moving to another Member State cannot be taxed at an earlier date or at a higher amount than if the company had moved to another place in the same country or had not moved. And the Commission’s assessment was not based on political assessments, but on legal analyses of several judges from the European Court of Justice. It is fully possible for Norway to be assisted in both information and invitations from the countries to which it is transferred. Therefore, such a rule is most likely to be contrary to the Commission’s view. These two important issues for business have been the subject of a debilitating treatment, perhaps in the same way that the case of the State Council itself was concerned with. There is reason to believe that the Storting has received poor assessments, while the relevant authorities have not been invited to a hearing on the changes, which could then reveal the lack of assessments. These proposals are certainly questionable in relation to our obligations under EEA legislation. I think it is unfortunate for our international commitments on such regulatory changes to come quickly, with poor assessments, hearings and views more geared towards extending the boundaries of our EEA adaptation, and perhaps also directed towards the well-being of the Treasury and increasing the proceeds of taxpayers' groups that the Government believes intuitively can contribute to improving the distribution profile of economic policy. There is only one possible guarantee to avoid such situations, and that is the solution Right wants with full cooperation in Europe, which will unquestionably provide a level playing field for our participation – in trade and economic relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1279	Today's debate illustrates to the world that the government's own timetable on these issues has already, and for the most part, broken down. It was said at an early stage when we talked about what is the government's performance project, the so-called moon landing project, that the EU, EEA and ESA were not a problem in this case. As with open eyes, Stortinget has kept his eyes open. It's actually the opposition that has asked to be informed along the way. And when you finally get informed, it turns out that the timetable that the Government itself has set, full of its own ambitions, cracks, too, unfortunately, in this area. That's why I think the presentation as such, which is very commendable of addressing these issues that are absolutely vital to Norway in everything we talk about in terms of the environment and climate, in many ways illustrates that here the timetable is completely wrong. And when, in today's debate, the Minister of Oil and Energy states that she is proud to belong to a government that takes great action, unlike the previous government that did nothing, I no longer think this type of rhetoric belongs to these questions. In fact, we're about to write on 1 January 2008. Then it turns out that one thing is the climate directive that has not been put in place, implemented, in Norwegian legislation – REACH is another matter, as the Foreign Minister mentioned in his statement, where we see that we are in overtime. We see that we have actually come so far that, on behalf of most of Norway’s creative businesses, the NHO is now bringing protests to the EU and asking the EU to take action against Norway on its own. At the same time as today's government states that we want to walk in parallel with the European Union, it turns out that in this willingness to compromise which one has to have internally in the Government, there are strange limitations that make us have an uncertainty situation in Norwegian business, while at the same time political progress bears the mark of one word, and that is 'unexplained'. We see that a system has been put in place within the climate directive where Norwegian businesses do not receive free allowances. In other words, Norwegian businesses established after 1 January 2002 do not receive free allowances — unlike all our neighbouring countries and the other some and twenty EU countries. We have seen that new activities in Norway do not receive free allowances, unlike in our competitors, i.e. an anti-climate policy, an anti-environment policy. With regard to rhetoric, in particular, I would like to point out the leader of the oil and energy minister in these issues – it is almost not serious. At a time when you try everything you can politically to create wide-ranging agreements in the Storting to put in place a climate policy that can be bearer, and that can be a pattern for other countries to do themselves on these issues, it does not hold up in the Storting today and say that yes, she is proud to belong to a government that works hard, unlike the previous government, which did nothing. At least it does not create a good climate for negotiations. Moreover, today's debate is also illustrated by many good speeches, referring to the fact that Europe, the European Parliament, is the world's major driving force in environmental issues, in climate issues. It is referred to both the Blue Book on Maritime Policy and the Green Book on Energy and Climate. I believe that for the future Norway will stand on one thing, and that is that if you recognise that the EU is a driving force in these issues, you must also be able to go in parallel with the EU here – and not because of internal contradictions try to create strange sideways that just complicate and limit the pace to the goals we set, to be very good both in Europe and in the rest of the world on climate issues. Finally, I would just like to say that also in the areas of management, fisheries, the environment, north-eastern policy and the exercise of sovereignty, we would have insisted not to stand in the way, but to participate and influence the crucial issues for the Norwegian future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1294	This has become an interesting debate in the light of an interesting presentation. I have no doubt that this type of debate meets a need in such a way that it will evolve into one of the major debates of the Storting. I think it was liberatingly open by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to describe the task of responding to EU initiatives, because this in many ways tells us very clearly what the restriction in our form of association is. Of course, I am as conscious as anyone else of the fact that it was not relevant when I was in government, and that it is not relevant now, to change this form of connection – at least not in the short term. However, I think it is important that we do not close our eyes to the constraints, that we are willing to debate them and put them on the agenda. I think that's an important part of the Norwegian social debate. I will therefore raise another such question, where the connection is obviously not enough for our needs, and it is about the challenges we face in the north. Extensive and excellent efforts are being made to get other European countries interested in the challenges of the north. But is that enough? Right now, enthusiasm is perhaps the most prominent – and well-founded enthusiasm. The fact that Norwegian participation in the Shtokman field went into the box not long ago, underlines that optimism and opportunities in many ways are the central words now. But is that enough? Russia offers many opportunities. I think it's right to have that starting point. It is a fantastic country, a fascinating country and a country that we should get closer to. However, the problems are bigger and more difficult than they were, because we see as much as we go in the wrong direction in Russia. The development of pluralism, the development of civil society, the restrictions on the opposition, the freedom of the press, the fact that the Russians have now put such a great deal of restrictions on the observation of elections that there is no such thing as the development of the rule of law, or the lack of development of the rule of law, the confusion of political and economic interests – all these are worrying features, quite fundamental concerns. We have to observe that Norway is one of the least concerned neighbouring countries in Russia. Almost in all other contexts, there are problems of some kind, and we're earned to think carefully through it. The question then is: could a different form of EU connectivity be useful? I'm referring to the fact that the Chief of Defense has just presented a study. There was a lot of leaks from it in advance. One of them was that NATO in the north now couldn't help us to the extent that many thought. Now maybe this isn't the right representation of what's written there, the point is that there are some things we've always had to do ourselves. So some of the challenges we are now facing in the north are of the kind that NATO has never been set to solve -- it's environmental and resource issues, it's jurisdictional issues and it's territorial issues. But then the question is, will we in the years to come be comfortable with a situation where Norway on the one hand and Russia on the other hand are going to deal with these questions? To be honest, I think we should think carefully whether it would not give us the opportunity to borrow heavier, even heavier, even more ambitiously inwards towards exploiting the opportunities in Russia if we had also been a member of the EU, had the EU's weight behind us. We know how EU solidarity works for the benefit of small countries. We know, for example. how it seemed the last time the Estonians had problems with Russia. It seemed positive for small Estonia. The question is whether none of the same issues, perhaps to an even greater extent, would be valid for Norway in the many questions we are facing. It's not something we can immediately change, but we don't have to close our eyes to this perspective. I think one of the central north-eastern debates should be about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1311	I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his presentation. He shows that Norway is in a position to pursue a more active European policy than we have seen in the first 10 years of Norwegian EEA membership. Although the Central Party would prefer to have a different form of cooperation with the EU, we are pleased that we are now using our negotiating cards more actively. Norway has a great deal that the EU needs: energy, geographical proximity to the Barents Sea, a traditional good relationship with our big neighbour in the north, a market of purchasing power and raw materials for EU industry. With sufficient confidence in our own policies, we do not need a pessimistic attitude, which some EU citizens have, as far as Norway becomes a marginalised country when the EU is enlarged. There's nothing to suggest marginalisation. On the contrary. The case of returnees, enlargement negotiations with Romania and Bulgaria and the differentiated employer fee do not indicate that. And I am bold enough to believe that the European Union is not taking the chance either to poke heads in the wheels for what has shaped today's debate, namely the capture of CO2 in Mongstad, the sea of the European Commissioner for Energy to Norwegian media was injured to say that the EU competition rules go ahead of the environment. I have great confidence that the Government and the Central Party Council of State in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, Åslaug Haga, will lead the negotiations to a positive result for Norway. In line with the Storting's treatment of the European Communication, I also think that we are on the right track to have a more open and active involvement in the Storing in European affairs. However, it is still a long time before we are where the Centre Party would like, with the usual treatment of European affairs in the Committees rather than the EEA Committee's express procedure. I want to focus on a special matter that was mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is the new Treaty of the European Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said: «The basis of the Treaty, if it enters into force, also applies to us, because it will affect the arrangements for our work on an active European policy.» [[...]] Further: ‘The new Treaty of the European Union also presents challenges for us’; and that ‘the failure of such a bridge structure; [[...]] These statements by our foreign minister are so important that, in line with what was said by our foreign policy spokesman, Alf Ivar Samuelsen, the Stortinget should get a big message where the Government explains what is changing, what consequences it has for our approach to the EU, how we should deal with it, and whether it has consequences for the contractual nature of the EEA and Schengen Agreement. The assessment of the Central Party is that with the new Treaty, EU leaders have made only cosmetic changes to the EU basic law to which the French and Dutch people voted no in 2005. In no areas will power and competence be transferred back to the Member States. The amendments make the new Treaty more diffuse and give greater power to the Commission and the European Court of Justice, which will follow up and interpret the legislation. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs notes that the right to veto is being lost and that new legislation can be developed more quickly, it will affect Norway’s ability to ally itself with similar countries in the EU against legislation that undermines the rule of law, the environment and an active industrial policy, to mention something. The government's policy of international and historical experience shows that small countries have often led important reforms for people and the environment internationally. In the EU, I am afraid that we are now facing a situation where small countries are less able to take on such a role. That is why the Central Party understands the popular demand in many EU countries for referendums on the new EU Treaty. Despite the fact that several polls show a solid majority of referendums in central countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Italy, Germany and Denmark, it seems that EU leaders are not open to listening to their own populations. As a small country, with the ambition to play an even more important role for the environment and development internationally, I believe – certainly in contrast to previous speakers – that the arguments against Norwegian membership of the EU have been further strengthened by the developments we are facing. But only with active debate and commitment can we better deal with the form of association that the Government has also decided to operate on the basis of this large-scale period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1354	Let me first say that it is a pity to see that this debate is going too close to empty gallery and not least empty big hall. There is a much more important debate than both the representatives of the magnificence and the audience give the impression of understanding. The EU is not perfect, but membership is far better than today's EEA agreement. ‘I hear that some in Norway are afraid of the democratic deficit in the EU. But what is EEA? A feudal system and a total democratic disaster.’ The quotation is from Marit Paulsen, a Norwegian-born Swedish EU parliamentarian, in the VG on 8 February 2003. Another Swedish EU parliamentarian, Christofer Fjellner, has said that for outsiders it is strange and incomprehensible that Norway is not in the EU. He goes on to say that from both a European and a Swedish perspective, it is a pity that Norway would be able to contribute a lot in the EU. I fully agree with both statements. Norway may and should actively contribute to the EU decision-making body and not, as is the case today, as a mere recipient of decisions taken in Brussels through the EEA Agreement. The EU is important for Norway. 70 pst. of our imports come from the EU, and 80 pst. of all our exports to the EU. We are therefore totally dependent on access to the EU's internal market. From a business perspective, it is easy to see that membership will eliminate unnecessary currency risks by replacing a volatile krone with a more stable euro, ensuring market access especially for Norwegian fish, and ensuring the impact in the preparation of provisions that will have consequences for Norwegian business. Nevertheless, the main arguments for Norwegian membership are democracy, cooperation, the environment, peace and solidarity. Poland’s election winner, the Civil Platform, said that it must be recognised – and it may have been contrary to the previous government – that the EU is far more important for Poland than Poland is for the EU. I think it would have been wise for both Stortinget and Norway to come to the same conclusion – that the EU is far more important for Norway than Norway is for the EU. The Central Party and the Socialist Left have always believed that EU membership will weaken the People's Party because decisions are taken by the nation states and transferred to the EU Parliament. Then there can be nothing but a paradox that it is precisely these two parties that are the biggest governance of the world. Both want significantly higher taxes, which effectively eliminate freedom of choice for both individuals and businesses. Both parties fight for a number of denominations of funds to the municipalities, because they do not trust either local politicians or individuals. They want to shift power to even larger regions, away from the inhabitants and the municipal populace. These are just a few examples of the national zeal of both the Central Party and the Socialist Left after moving decisions from individuals and municipalities to county and state. Their governance and lack of confidence in citizens and local people are not at all linked to their crown argument against a Norwegian EU membership. Unfortunately, the right is Norway's only 'yes' party. That's nothing but regret. It is also regrettable that many of the leading yes-people of the Workers' Party unfortunately do not find time or that it is worth taking part in a very rare EU debate. I have to say that if people believe that EU membership is important, a vote to the Right is the only guarantee for it. Me and Right want Norwegian EU membership, because we want to be a driving force for Europe's future. The EU’s bureaucracy, as in Norway, needs to be slimned down, decisions need to be reduced and more relevant, the EU needs to restore power and influence to the Member States, and the EU needs to take a lead in important areas such as the environment, climate and free trade. The future of Norway is ensured through EU membership, not through isolation, as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1385	This has been a good debate. I think there has been a lot of interest in the debate. Yesterday we read in a larger regional newspaper that the EU wants to invite Norway to monitor. The EU wants to introduce new control mechanisms for persons flying from Norway to the EU, and insofar also for all other countries that are not part of the EU. The background is that you want to keep a better eye on who travels where in Europe. The proposal suggests that Norway, which is not an EU country, should also implement this scheme. The legislation also states that anyone flying from Norway to any city in the EU must provide a number of information, including: credit cards, travel orders, telephone and e-mail addresses, as well as several other information. All this information is in addition to the other safety measures already established at aerodromes. The Code also provides for the data to be stored for 13 years before they can be deleted. The incident dealt with in our case about security controls at Norwegian airports. In their comments, a joint committee said the following: ‘However, the Committee is not convinced that an extension of this type of action in the transport sector is part of a desirable social development and is fundamentally negative to any further reinforcement of security controls if the level of threats does not indicate this.’ The Progress Party also had a proposal, for which unfortunately we did not get a majority, which reads: ‘The Government is asking for the extension of security controls on air passengers and further restrictions on cabin baggage not to be implemented until a thorough assessment of the current regime has been carried out and before the consequences of any new measures have also been assessed in relation to privacy and service.’; Such a comprehensive proposal that the EU now submits to mainly Norwegian citizens’ travel movements to and from the EU should be actively pursued by the Norwegian authorities to reject, i.e. that Norway has to be treated as an EU country through incorporation into the EEA Agreement, as is the case under the Schengen Agreement. In relation to privacy, such a approach is also highly questionable; data protection is being attacked in ever-new areas. This is also a concern in relation to travel time and costs. The costs incurred by the authorities and air carriers will be passed on to travellers and the collection of such information by travellers who may not have been notified in advance could lead to significant delays at aerodromes. I therefore hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to clarify what he thinks about this proposal that has now been promoted. Will he work to prevent the scheme from being applied to persons travelling between Norway and the EU, and does he agree that this is an attack on the privacy of individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1410	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1413	It's been an interesting debate. But I don't think a debate about this statement about the EU could go without talking a little about research and maybe about higher education, but especially about research, and I don't find that very much in evidence. At the same time, we know that it may be where the solution to many of the major problems lies. It is a fact that we in Norway budget for the next year with about EUR 1 billion for the EU’s Seventh Framework Programme, and we spend a few hundred million on other projects that also govern the EU. It may be in those areas where real growth is found, at least in the case of Norwegian research. So much of it is actually managed by the EU, and Norwegian researchers have to move towards EU funding programmes. There is also reason to stress that they do – with quite great success. An interim evaluation of the Sixth Framework Programme of the European Union shows that we have participated in approximately 830 projects. There are 4 500 Norwegian researchers involved in projects in more than 100 countries. It's actually a pretty impressive success rate, and we're going to get a little bit more back than what we're doing in the programs. It might have been useful to have a vote in which you actually do the big priorities with regard to what you're going to bet on. We don't get that without being involved. Research is quite international in its character. Businesses go out and pick up the ideas where they find them, and this flows largely across borders. It's also a battle for the talents. There I think we should note that the EU has great ambitions to make Europe competitive, and research and higher education are very central. We must not just follow that with great interest, but actively participate in it, and we should not just be content to sit and participate in it through the EEA. I therefore hope that the foreign minister's omission of research in the statement was not a sign that there are no ambitions in this area, but that perhaps you will come back to it more strongly in later assessments. The EU does not take any cutting edge in the field of research. Rather, on the contrary, they have very high ambitions, and we should also participate in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1424	It's not up to me to comment on how many are in the room, but I'll agree that this has been a very good debate. I believe that we have jointly achieved some of the ambition we had in the communication and the position on working with European policy, namely to have a wide-ranging debate on disciplines, forms of association – all that should be included in the European debate. We have been within climate, shipping, maritime policy, judicial and police cooperation, migration, treaty issues and Hindu-soul migration – different themes that are central! We have also heard fundamental views about the European Union. I think it is good that it is present in the debate we have here. It's interesting that the Right now leads a consistent membership line in all of its professional posts. That's what we're going to take with us. The representative Gitmark was very clear that the right was thus the only yes-party. What that leads to becomes an interesting question. We are working well with two no-parties today. The right in its ambitions is going to figure it out by three, but there's a lot that's possible! So to the representative Holmberg, who had an interesting suggestion about a big message about migration. It's not my field, but I'll take it with me. In any case, I agree with what she says about the importance of seeing the whole of the EU's various policies relating to migration. It is also one of the ambitions of the new Treaty, namely to be able to see several of these sides in context. The representative of Høglund also had interesting considerations about EEA financial instruments. It is clear that we will take with us the experience of this phase after April 2009, as a new phase may come. Then you have to position yourself correctly, both tactically and in other ways, in order to be prepared for that discussion. As for the representative Hoksrud, I share his views on personal security regarding information in connection with the travel in and out. It's important that we find the balance here. We must respect our rights and opportunities to move in and out of Europe, but at the same time be a voice in order not to do so in a way that violates privacy. The representative of Vaksdal was within our maritime competence. I'll take that with me. It's very important that we continue to position ourselves in that area. Then the representative of Aspaker was concerned that Norway could become a deserted island in Europe in the fight against international crime. I believe my statement has argued that we have many bridges and participate here in that cooperation as far as possible. Finally, I have to say that the representative of Kristiansen from the Right went a bit well in that the EU was the pink case. When he said that this government almost does not have a serious climate policy, I think it was a bit embarrassing. The measures that this government has taken in the field of climate are well in contrast to what we took over when we got responsibility. So I'd like to say to the representative Gundersen that that's a good point he has about education and research, and it's clearly a topic to go deeper into the next presentation. I did not choose to include it in it, except to refer to all the research projects we are involved in in the climate field through the Framework Programme in the context of discussing climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1445	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1461	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1477	In the spring of 2005, it was adopted a start-up grant for the so-called IFI2 building at the University of Oslo. The point was to gather a computer environment that had poor locations, and it was also important for professional development. Since then, the construction project has become more expensive than predicted. The Ministry explains in the proposition why construction is more expensive. There are several reasons for this. It turns out that there has been a gap between what is the compensated price and wage developments and what is the real price and wage developments. That gap corresponds to approx. One hundred million. kr. It is also true that the opposition in the Committee wanted to express the fact that there are now more buildings in the same situation as the IFI2 building, that they are subject to higher costs than predicted. This means that there are difficulties both in starting construction and not least in implementing construction. Therefore, the opposition parties have commented that there is reason to consider whether other projects in the same situation should also be given room for corresponding supplementary appropriations. It's a unanimous committee that goes in to increase the cost framework of computer science at the University of Oslo to 1080 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1490	I would essentially like to join in what the rapporteur expressed in a glittering way. This is in many ways a cause of joy, for it shows that the Government takes on board that the extraordinary cost growth in the construction sector will result in the need for additional appropriations for some of the projects in the UH sector that are far more expensive than initially planned. There are many public buildings in a similar situation. What the Council of State here is proposing is actually in line with what the Government also proposed and that was also endorsed by a unanimous increase in the case of Halden prison. This is a very positive development, and I am glad that an overall opposition also says that they will consider whether this is a principle underlying other constructions in the sector that have similar challenges. I have an example from my own county, Vestfold, where the University of Vestfold has been approved together, but because of the extraordinary cost developments, the project is at risk because additional appropriations of 41 million have not been confirmed. kr. Of course, there's some help in adding 41 million. kr to the University of Westfold in its alternative budget, but there would have been more help in whether the government parties had agreed to consider whether this is a principle that should be applied to other buildings as well, and not just the computer science building at the University of Oslo. I hope the government parties contribute to such clarification very quickly, especially for those building projects that are waiting and just need this one decision to get started. It's important barley. There's a lot of construction that's been struggling locally for a long time, so it's a necessary clarification. In this way, the Progress Party is pleased with the setting in this case, but we also hope that we will receive a more comprehensive assessment from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1503	There is no doubt that things are going well here to land. There is a high demand in the construction market for materials and for labour. In both the private and public sectors, we build as never before. The consequence of this is, of course, that the cost growth of the construction industry is running into the weather. New information technology building at the University of Oslo was adopted by Stortinget in spring 2005, and only two years later the construction work started. Meanwhile, in the construction industry, we had a cost increase that led to budgeted funds being insufficient. The minority, which is the opposition, considers that there is reason to consider other planned or ongoing construction projects in the university and higher education sectors. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party do not want to support the minority. We believe that we have a responsibility to hold the market back. We don't want to give a "go" signal for all projects – that's what we had to do if we were to go initially just for all buildings in the university and higher education sectors. We need to see every building project under state control in a whole. We assume that the state construction projects submitted to the Storting correspond to the calculations of any cost increase. We should allocate enough reserves to take account of changes in the market. But we cannot ignore the fact that, in special cases, important construction projects, such as computer science, are being prioritised by the Government. But initially, we believe that all state-owned construction projects have been designed with the means needed. I would like to commend the Minister of Renewal and Administration for addressing this matter, and the government parties join the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1516	No, Anna Ljunggren said in so far as what is the Government and the Government Party's foundation for what we have made of proposals for additional promises, and why one has not joined the note from the opposition party. But I do also need a comment on that. Of course, we are pleased that we have increased the cost frame for the IFI. It's an important project, and it's important that we complete it. We have made careful assessments of the consequences of not asking for an additional permission. This would have resulted in significantly increased costs if we had now stopped working. But it's clear that if one had applied to an absolute principle that one could only ask for additional promises each time a cost exceedance or a cost problem associated with a project that is on its way, it would have a significant impact on the expansiveness of the budget. There's something that especially Right has been busy about, and fiscal spokesman Jan Tore Sanner said the latest when the budget was presented this year, that the Minister of Finance couldn't help but say that she is putting forward an expansive budget that won't help dampen the pressure on the interest rate and the dollar rate. If one were to rely on an absolute interpretation of the comitology that is also included in this report, it would result in additional expansiveness in the budget for 2008. We can't agree to that. What we want to do is, of course, what we have to do, and what I have done in the budget proposal from my department: ‘The market is characterised by strongly increasing prices as a result of high activity in the construction industry. This gives Statsbygg major challenges in implementing the construction project, not least because the cost framework of the projects is set long before the work is contracted. Risk management is therefore given great importance in all phases of project implementation.’» How do we operate that project management? Well, we've now got projections that show that the hot market will continue into 2008, even if we want to see some kind of flare. The Ministry does not propose a changed strategy when it comes to state building projects, but emphasises that State buildings in the implementation of construction projects should have a particular focus on entrepreneurship and contract strategy, good project management, properly dimensioned lease on the construction site and an active approach to cost-reducing measures. Landsbygg follows the market closely and conducts market analyses in the preparation of each project to provide a basis for selecting the entrepreneurship breakdown in the construction projects. An active and customised contract strategy will be pursued. Our goal is now to achieve greater competition when it comes to the contracts we have out there. We see that there have only been one or two providers, and then we don't get the competition that helps to cut prices. What we've been doing lately is actually dividing up the contractor prices that we'd have thought would be bigger. We see that when we split up the contractors, we can get more providers, and that's important. Of course, it is labour demand for State Building and for us as builders, but experience shows that we will then get the prices down by allowing several smaller construction companies to participate in the competition. Of course, it's also good for business, and it's also a goal in itself that we get more. Landsbygg has developed a project model with clear routines and control points in the management of the projects, with monthly reporting requirements covering both cost management and progress management. In the construction projects, State Building must and must have an active approach to cost-reducing measures, e.g.: Cutlists. Even if the people who are going to build it obviously don't like it, we're quite content to take that round, because if we were to automatically put on, we would talk about hundreds of millions of dollars on many of these big projects that we have, and in the sum of the big projects we're talking about billions. We cannot automatically accept an increase in costs there. We have to go in and see if it's not a good idea to cut. In dialogue with the user and the client, it will be worked both before the start of the project and during the course of the project to adapt the project to the financial framework. One often feels that the user is also involved in taking responsibility for getting a project that one can live with, but that has a lower cost than one could fear if it were only to be automatic in extending the cost framework when one gets a crack at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1535	I expect the Council of State has come to realize that the opposition comments are related to the extraordinary cost situation we have in the construction market. So it's not the case that at any time you have the opportunity to come to the department and ask for more money. But the comments are related to this particular situation, which means that the Council of State has the right attitude to the building process at the University of Oslo. I don't think the distance is as great as the council tried to get it to. I believe that the Council of State really agrees with that. When you look at this in a context, predictability and future planning are very important for all of these projects, which have often been waiting for a very long time. Then I will challenge the Council of State directly: When will the Council of State provide a complete overview of which constructions in the sector are prioritised in such a way that we can be almost guaranteed development, and which projects will not be on that list? It is also related to the representative, Mr Ljunggren, who said that all projects must be viewed as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1542	The extent of the inconsistency, you can ask questions about it. I understand the nuances of the committee leader said that a request for an evaluation of an extension of the cost framework. That's what the government did when we came to the Storting and asked for an increase in the cost framework for the IFI. Then this must be appreciated from case to case. As I pointed out, Statsbygg has in every case a review focusing on both project management and getting more entrepreneurs, so that we get competition for the offer, and one has not at least one monthly reporting. But I understand very well that the representative Anundsen would go a little further, that almost an automatic approach would be to ask for an increased cost framework when an economic challenge was associated with a lack of competition and pressure in the construction industry. I see it as a difference of opinion between the committee leader and the representative Anundsen. In this way, I agree more with the committee leader than with Anundsen in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1549	Jan Tore Sanner is a wise man with many wise points of view, and they were also referred to by the Council of State. I would just like to draw attention to what is actually stated in the remark, namely ‘that there is reason to consider’, to give the same room for additional appropriations to other projects that are now just being put to the test because the construction costs and, in part, the design costs have become much higher than planned. I would like to stress that what is stated in the comment is that there should not be any automatic in increased appropriations for construction, but that one should really only make the same assessment as the Council of State and the Department have done in relation to just the IFI2. My question is, what is it going to do to make the kind of assessments for other buildings as well? Can the Council of State say anything about whether there are other buildings currently under assessment, precisely in relation to the question of any additional appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1558	I am very pleased with this clarification from the representative Eriksen Soreide. That's how I also perceive the comment, but as there was a certain difference of opinion in the posts, I thought it was good to get it clarified also from the committee leader. I'm in agreement with the committee leader. What the government does is simply to evaluate the different projects. We look at whether there is a need to come to Stortinget and ask for an increased cost framework, or whether a person is able to bring down the costs either by looking at the management of a project, by getting more providers or even cutting off a project, even though it is of course not desirable, both from our side and from the users' side. We assess this on a case-by-case basis. I can't come up with a list right now and give a guarantee that we'll come up with more people, given what both Jan Tore Sanner and I are busy with, that we're not going to do any more to get an expansive budget for 2008. We focus on interest. We focus on the krone price. It is then important to stick to the budgetary framework provided by the Government for the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1565	If the consensus is so large, perhaps the government parties might have considered participating in the Committee's minority comment. But that's another thing. I registered that the Council of State in an excellent way did not answer my question. So it was linked to when we could expect an overall plan for prioritising these projects and an assessment of whether to ask for additional appropriations or not. The representative Anna Ljunggren, and to the extent also the Council of State, said that these are projects that need to be seen in an overall context. In reply to the representative, Eriksen Soreide, the Council of State said that we need to assess this on a case-by-case basis. It gives a fading little predictability for the development projects, which have been largely standing and waiting a very long time to be realized. So I'm going to challenge the state council again on this. When can we expect a comprehensive review and a plan for which buildings in the sector can expect to receive this kind of additional appropriations, which will be absolutely necessary if they are to be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1573	That plan was presented in the 2008 state budget. It says what kind of construction projects are funded for 2008. In addition, it is up to the Government to decide if a given challenge is being addressed, for example: in the form of a cost exceedance, which means that one has to make the assessments that I have done right. It's a budgetary matter. It presents the Government of the Great Government in budgetary context. Then we'll have the opportunity to do it in a revised spring, and we'll have a new budget round next fall. That's the way we present construction stuff. Bringing up quite extraordinary things, like IFI2, there's going to be a case for the Storting. But it's completely impossible to have an overview of it at the current time. It is presented to the Stortinget and is in the budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1578	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1588	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1596	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stortings meeting on 6 November 2007 on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08.ana.ud1064e1647	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
