ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e24	The representative of Laila Bavøy, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is unanimously elected president of the Stortinges meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e61	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Magnhild Melting Authority City Council of the City of Trond Giskestatsråde Helga Pedersen The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e80	My question goes to the government council, Magnhild Melting Authority, Kleppa. What should best be characterised as a full and open dispute between government parties does not seem to end. At the latest in today's Newspaper we can read about full split between Karin Andersen in SV and State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. The theme is poverty. And while government parties use their energy to argue internally, little is done to help the very poorest of the poor. The biggest government party says everyone's going, but it's far from the truth of the government's so-called impoverishment. The government has created an A and a B team of social welfare recipients. Of course, those who participate in the qualification programme belong to the A team, while the rest belong to the B team. In addition, social assistance is a social lottery game where you are completely dependent on how little or how much you receive. In fact, how good help is now very dependent on local economics and priorities. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in Dagbladet yesterday that he would rather have reinforced his efforts on the qualification programme than increase social assistance rates if he had more money to fight poverty. Will the Minister of State be involved in a task with the Progress Party in order to put in place a predictable system of standardised government rates, so that social welfare beneficiaries no longer depend on the circumstances of each municipality in terms of local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e89	I see the discussions between the government parties that are now apparent in the media, as an impatience in being made the most possible to fight poverty, which is otherwise firmly rooted in the Soria Moria Declaration as an ambition for the Government to eradicate poverty. There are many elements that are central. I'm very pleased that the government so far has secured the municipalities 21 billion more, and that the municipalities have received 8 billion more in additional tax revenue. There can be no doubt that over the course of two years, the municipalities have a very different possibility of their most difficult times. When social assistance is specifically involved, it is clear that it is important. It is important to secure work, housing and better public services, and it is also important to secure a fine-tuning social security network. State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has reported to the Civilombodsmann on 14 August that he is looking at the situation of social assistance recipients. I'm waiting for the review that he has now. It's nice that the Progress Party invites you to do it, but it's been a very solid effort from this government for the last two years. We're not in the goal, but fortunately, we've got quite a few more poor people a better everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e98	We agree that the fight against poverty is all about getting people to work. But then there's someone completely outside. It is then difficult to perceive it differently from the fact that State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is currently in the process of ironing out the central parts of the Soria Moria declaration. It's very hard to read it in any other way. Our country has established that the progressive party-driven municipalities are actually the municipalities that provide the most social assistance. The government parties are talking about poverty. In the past, in the guise of the throne, the State Council rejected Meltveit Kleppa's questions from us, which were about to make it cheaper for the homeless by lowering the cost of the construction of new dwellings. But there are other key areas that are important. One challenge may be: What will the Minister of Local Affairs do to prevent people who are involuntarily in a part-time position in the municipal sector – they like to work in the care sector – from getting a bigger job break? These are also people who are attributed to poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e107	Let me first remind you that there are 140,000 more people who have been employed in the last two years. In addition, a dedicated qualification program is in place to allow even more people to try out a job. Let me remind you that one has acquired housing for many homeless people. Local authorities have a completely different possibility than two years ago to follow up on their most difficult times. Providing more full-time work or a major job break to prevent involuntary part-time work is an important issue for this government. We're now in dialogue with the parties on how to do that. There are also several municipalities that themselves have developed good models, models that are good examples for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e118	There will be follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e121	I believe that the issue that we now see between the Central Party and SV about who is responsible for the government's failure to fight poverty is frustrating for those of the poor who cannot be part of the working line. The SV leader, Kristin Halvorsen, said before she became Minister of Finance, that it was not difficult to combat poverty. It was just about political will, as she said at the TV 2 public meeting. The will has obviously disappeared, as of 5 June this year, the Minister of Finance declared that the Government did not achieve its own objectives in combating poverty. Does the Minister of State agree with his own Minister of Finance that the Government will not achieve its own objectives of combating poverty during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e130	The Minister of Local Affairs is at the head of the Government's ambition. As I see it, all the members of the government do it – says the Soria Moria Declaration, which says that the Government should aim to eradicate poverty. I think the government has done a lot in this area over the last two years. It's both encouraging and fun that a gathering of clusters to those degrees seems to be occupied by just the same ambition. That was not the case two years ago. In fact, I think it's enough to remind you – once again – the big difference when it comes to the local economy two years ago. Then cut the municipalities in settings that also beat the most difficult ones that they should follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e138	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e141	The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that, if you want to fight poverty, you have to have targeted measures — in addition to a good community economy. In addition to general welfare policy, targeted action must be taken against the groups we are talking about here. Examples of targeted interventions include increased housing support and increased social assistance rates. Government councillor Meltveit Kleppa was concerned about this when she was Social Minister, and she was concerned about this in Stortinget, in the Municipal Committee. Does she not see an increase in the difference between those who have work and those who have a useful economy and those who fall outside due to debt problems or drug problems? Does she not see that there has been a government budget that lacks targeted action against those outside? If she sees this, I just want to remind you that the Christian People's Party is concerned that, here in the Grand Duchy, during the treatment of the state budget, we would like to have something more targeted to combat poverty. Will the Council of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e150	I can assure the Christian People's Party and the representative Tørresdal that I share the concerns about the situation of the most disadvantaged. The dry valley is called the housing situation. In my department, we have $3 billion at our disposal when it comes to measures for the most difficult in this sector. Let me take advantage of both starter loans, flat rate bills and bus fees. We are now going through all the tools we have, to make sure that they are used as correctly as possible. I had my first meeting with the House Bank yesterday. I have invited organisations that are busy with this to a meeting next week. I hope I'll get back to Stortinget with further efforts in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e157	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e160	The Central Party's fiscal spokesman, Per Olaf Lundtägen, invited the Left and Christian People's Party at the latest yesterday to join in improving the effort to combat poverty. There is an invitation that the Left accepts. And when you get that kind of invitations in the open landscape, it would be interesting to be able to hear the Council of State, which has been listening to questions in the Stortinge, think about the following: Where in this complex landscape is what we should go a few steps further, to try to reach someone that we haven't seen now, to try to be accurate? I perceive that when a political invitation is given, it is hardly given by chance when it comes from an experienced politician like the one I referred to instead. So my invitation to the Council of State is, when the Left responds positively to the invitation, where is the Council of State seeing that we're going to do something that we haven't done right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e167	When it comes to the specific budget for 2008 and the work to be done in that context, it is now in the Storting. I therefore refer to the discussions and the treatment that should be available. But let me point to some areas that it's important to reinforce, and where the government is now on the right track. There's an escalating plan for the drug field, the psychiatry plan is in a final phase and gets 980 million. Next year, we are going through all aspects of housing policy. As I already have notice, we also see the social security network, the social assistance measures, and in connection with social security, we have a review of the situation of the minimum pension list.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e174	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e177	The government has spent a lot of time referring to the qualification programme, and that it should be rewarding to solve much of the poverty problem. In connection with putting in place the 140 new NAV offices, the government has only granted money to help seven pieces per year. NAV Office in connection with the qualification programme. That's what's been inputted by funds. On 15 August this year, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said to the evening post that he is open to a debate on whether we should have a basic plan in terms of social assistance rates, precisely on the basis of a series of notices in the evening post that there are great differences between municipalities and municipalities in terms of rates. Can the Council of State guarantee that there is a debate going on in the Government in order to achieve standardised rates with a basic plank, or is it just an empty election vow?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e186	When it comes to the fight against poverty, there is, of course, a joint effort from many departments. As a result, several of the questions here have been quoted by other government councils. When it comes to the NAV reform, it should be in place in 2010. The reform is known in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. The details there I think councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen must answer for. So far there is a good cooperation between the municipalities and the state in that field. It must be a solid misunderstanding if the representative, Eriksson, believes that the qualification programme is, as he said, the only salvation. The Qualification Program is an extension of very many other actions for those who now explicitly want to try in a job and who have not been given the opportunity. Then, of course, we have to follow up with additional measures for those who cannot work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e193	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e196	I will allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Fisheries. Along the coast of this country, industry by industry feels that what has been called an ‘active industrial policy’ has become an active deprioritising of coastal business. One thing is that many small companies feel that much of their equity is now being withdrawn. Another thing is that the large industrial companies experience that the industrial power regime promised by the government parties before the 2005 elections has never come. In particular, these signals come from the industry for which the Vice-President of the Workers' Party is responsible, namely the fishing industry. They have now experienced regional quotas, new and more stringent delivery obligations, the extension of the net pay system without any compensation measures for the change in competition it entails for the fishing industry, they have experienced structural breaks, at the same time a macroeconomic policy that contributes both to higher interest rates and a strengthened crown price, and they have experienced a significant increase in tax liabilities through a NOx tax – a tax that the Council of State itself, a year ago in this Chamber, said was to find a solution, but which has not yet been identified as a trace of a solution, and which is a mere withdrawal. It may not be without reason that many in the industry now question whether the country has a fisheries minister, or whether it has its own State Council post for the Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party to carry out programme work for the next four years, due to the lack of attention that is now being directed. I will be allowed to challenge the Council of State to say what she means: Is there any improvement for the fishing industry in her budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e213	This government is pursuing an active fisheries and coastal policy. When we took over the government offices, many communities along the coast experienced difficult times, with high unemployment and relocation. An important challenge for the fishing industry was that the fishing industry did not have access to raw material. That is why we have implemented measures such as the district quota system, and we have increased universality. We have put in place a new structural policy that will ensure predictability of the industry for many years to come. We carried out the broad processes that the previous government did not find time to implement. We have just presented a fresh fish strategy. We have presented a strategy for the competitiveness of the aquaculture industry, which I believe has been well received in the industries concerned. Last week we presented proposals for the 2008 government budget. In that budget, there is half a billion dollars for a separate marine fund. There is a strong strengthening of the allocations to fishing ports and ferries. We are continuing the fight against overfishing, which is the top priority of this government's fisheries policy. It's starting to give positive results, and we're assuming that we're going to be able to get completely rid of it. We have strengthened marine research in several areas, and we have committed appropriations to follow up the Barents Sea Management Plan. From before, we've doubled the appropriations for the Marine Value Creation Program. These are some examples of what the government has got into, and only in two years. I have a very good conscience for the work we've done so far, and we're going to get a lot more over the next two years. With regard to the NOx tax, I would like to point out that the previous government had several years to reach Norway's obligations in the Gothenburg Protocol. They did nothing. We're running out of time now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e225	It's interesting to hear what the council says now. On a challenge from the Fischeriblad on what was positive for the fishing industry, she said that it was positive that hospital appropriations increased, because fishermen also had to use hospitals. I guess that was an indication that you're not really so proud of this budget that's been presented. But I can't understand how a fisheries minister can be proud of the fact that today the shrimps of fish that are delivered elsewhere, that companies that do re-pilling in District Norway, do not experience access because of a NOx tax that makes it unprofitable for the few Norwegian shrimp trawls that are left, to operate shrimp fishing. The truth about the NOx tax is that it does not have any environmental impact, but it increases the burden by NOK 1 billion for the industry, which is therefore a mere withdrawal from the state treasury, without any environmental impact. The Council of State has promised this room to clean up in this, and this budget provides nothing in relation to the clearing up and in relation to obtaining other solutions, a fund solution. When will the Council of State deliver on a change in the NOx tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e243	It is the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment to negotiate an environmental agreement with the industries concerned. She has invited to a meeting on Wednesday next week. I am optimistic that an environmental agreement will be reached and that we will reach the commitments that Norway has made through the Gothenburg Protocol. It would be interesting to hear what kind of action the representative Solberg thinks we are going to take in order to reach Norway's commitments in the Gothenburg Protocol, to which the previous government also joined, but which they did not care about following up during the four years they were in government. I am very proud of the budget presented by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast for next year. I also look at the reactions that there is a budget that is well received across the board also in the industries concerned. In addition, it is very important for the coast to have a good municipal economy, to have a good rescue plan, as the government has strengthened, and to have a safe hospital offer throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e250	There will be follow-up questions – first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e253	It is a pleasure to hear that there are also other parties at Stortinget who are concerned about the NOx fee. When the Progress Party proposed to remove it in revision, we were alone proposing it. When it comes to increasing the fishing deduction from 80 000 kroner to 150 000 kroner, we proposed it in the budget last year, and we were also alone on that proposal. But that other parties come after, is nice. Another area the Progress Party has focused on, and where we have been reasonably alone, is the fight against overfishing in the Barents Sea, which amounts to billions. The government has proposed to strengthen the budget by 10 million. kr. It's pretty puzzled. As a result, the Coast Guard Chief Arild-Inge Skram says he has to take three coastguard vessels out of service because of the budget. If there are two things that are important to combat illegal overfishing, it is the law, and that you are present. With the removal of three vessels, does the Council of State believe that overfishing in the Barents Sea is being reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e268	I have to say that I do not know myself at all again in the reality description with which the representative Korsberg opened his question, when it comes to claiming that the Progress Party has been alone to face the fight against overfishing. It's a gross distortion of reality. The government has been fighting overfishing in the Barents Sea as one of the highest priority fisheries policy issues since we entered the offices. Every year we have taken action on the State budget against overfishing in the Barents Sea. It has been dealt with in the Fisheries Directorate. There has been a strengthening of the Coast Guard in the two previous budgets, and in the justice sector too, we have strengthened the budgets. And we see results. From 2005 to 2006, overfishing in cod in the Barents Sea was reduced by between 23 and 25 pst. Overfished in the Barents Sea by 55 pst. It represents values of about 400 million. kr. So we see results. That is the result of the appropriations we have put in this area, and also of all the agreements and the strengthening of the legislation that this government has been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e275	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e278	The last time the fisherman's deduction was cancelled, it was from 70 000 kroner to 80 000 kroner under the previous government. In the election campaign, we saw several prominent politicians among the red-greens go a long way in promising growth to compensate for the offshore industry. Stortingsrets Svein Gelseth from the Workers' Party went so far that he said that the deduction should be increased to NOK 150 000 per year in relation to recruitment. Otherwise, it's in line with what the right has proposed. Conditions of competition against other vessels with an extended net pay system make it necessary to increase the fishing net in order to allow the fishing fleet to recruit fishermen. Why do the Government and the Council of State not follow the calls from industry, the opposition and their own representatives to increase the fishing deduction in order to ensure the recruitment of the fishing profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e287	This government is concerned that we should ensure the recruitment of the fishing industry and the fishing fleet. It's about several things. Firstly, it is about training. Secondly, it is also about young people not having to have too high a threshold to purchase a vessel to obtain quotas. Thirdly, it is about areas of competition against other industries. So there are three different issues we're talking about. The ministry is reviewing these conditions, and during the autumn we will propose measures across a wide range of ways of improving the recruitment of the industry. But I am absolutely convinced that no matter what we do from the department or from the government, it does not help unless people along the coast and the government show that the fishing industry is an attractive industry, and that there is something to be put on. I believe that once the Government has submitted a very offensive budget to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast, it is a very clear signal that the fishing industry is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e296	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e299	The government has previously said that fishing should be a cornerstone of coastal activity. The two most important tools that the fishermen themselves have asked for have not touched the government. Firstly, it is the NOx tax, or the NOx reduction policy. Here the government has not lifted a finger to meet it as a whole business life, including the fishing industry, has asked for – namely a business NOx fund. There should be a meeting next week, says the Minister for Fisheries, but it seems that the Government is paying more attention to the increase in fees. The leader of the Fiskarlag, Reidar Nilsen, says it is ‘wonderful and despairing’. When there is an increase in the fisherman’s deduction, it is about strengthening the recruitment process. The leader of Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag, Steinar Jonassen, says that the result is that fishermen run away to other industries, which offer better conditions. When the Government will not use these two main tools — what will the Minister for Fisheries do to restore confidence in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e316	As regards the NOx issue, there shall be a meeting between the industries concerned and the Minister for the Environment next week. I am optimistic that an environmental agreement will be reached. I continue to record that the opposition is very critical of what the Government is doing in this area, but has no alternative suggestions on how to achieve Norway's NOx obligations. Neither did the Bondevik II government have power in this country in the four years. With regard to the recruitment of the fishing fleet, I believe that several different measures need to be considered here. Had I been convinced that only we increased the fishing deduction, it would have flowed on with future potential fishermen, the matter would have been simple. But I think this is where you have to look at recruitment from several different perspectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e331	Bea Lymph – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e334	In the 2008 draft budget, the Government proposes to increase the appropriations for the net pay scheme for seafarers by 380 million. kr, an increase of nearly 30 p.m., on the grounds of a strong increase in the salary level of the beneficiaries of the scheme, which is a paradox in itself. At the same time, the Government proposes a nominal continuation of, inter alia: the deduction of the fisherman's income which, in effect, constitutes a tax consolidation for that group. It is a well-known case that there is now considerable competition in shipping and fishing for skilled labour, and that there are problems in recruiting, among other things. the fishing fleet. Is the Government's policy comfortable with the fact that labour disappears from the fishing fleet to other shipping due to discrimination between employees of vessels covered by the net pay scheme and those of fishing vessels?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e341	When coastal youth today is going to choose a profession for the future, I don't think that's how they think: shall I become a fisherman, or shall I find myself a job in the offshore? You consider far more alternatives than that, like: Shall I become a fisherman, shall I become a farmer, shall I study jus, or shall I become a pop star? This means that we have to start the recruitment debate at a much more basic level: how do we draw a picture of the industry that makes it appear to be an attractive professional choice for young people? How are we going to strengthen education in high school? How are we going to strengthen higher education to attract young people to the fishing profession? The net paycheck and the fishing discount is a little bit of a very large picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e348	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e351	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Never has anyone gone to elections on such clear promises to eliminate poverty. Nor has any finance minister had as fat a wallet as this government has. Nor have we failed as much as this government has done to combat poverty. Those who looked a way out and a light at the end of the tunnel when it was their own situation must feel lazy in the hole. Some of them say from, but others remain quite tause. I'm afraid this will be written into the history book of Soria Moria with a dark and black pen. Some of us have also heard about the yellow post- IT note of the Minister of Finance to remind her of combating poverty. I think it's a part that now wants that note to be converted into a yellow card. As we know, with two yellow cards, it's over. If the Council of State wants to dismiss this as opposition rhetoric, I ask her to listen to her own government representatives who have acknowledged it and who are ashamed of what you have not achieved, or take a trip in her car and just look around in the capital here. Then one will see that we have great challenges in terms of poverty reduction. My clear question to the Council of State is: Do you think that the will and action are proportionate to the promises made two years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e364	Let me first pair Dagrun Eriksen's introduction. It's probably also true that never has a government done so much to fight poverty. It's enough to show you the dry numbers in the comparison between the Bondevik II government and today's government. Never has a municipality been able to use the resources they now have. So I'm going to say that I want to listen both to my own, to the opposition and not least to people out in the field who know this on the body. But I have to remind you that this government has been sitting for two years. We have two birthdays in a short time, and we have another two years left. I think the government is on the right track, both in terms of work, housing, social security networks and better public services. We're far from the goal, we have great challenges leading us, but I don't think anyone seems to be measuring the situation more black than he is. When the representative asked me to take a walk around Oslo, I thought I would ask her to take a walk into the capital message, which also points to concrete measures for improvement. That message is now being processed in Storting. And then I'd like to point out what happened when it's about kindergarten, the great possibilities that one now has to follow up the individual at school, and the cultural lift, with the possibilities that it provides for a better recreational and growing environment. In total, a lot has been done, but there are still major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e373	The poor house has distributed an almost quadruple number of food bags since ours. We have great challenges. The Christian People's Party has said earlier today in this Chamber that there are things we want to be with and improve to be more focused. This government is being met with strong words about the failure of the poverty campaign. I would like to remind both this hall and everyone else that it is a matter of making strong promises when you joined, and there was great hope. We in the Christian People's Party are constructive. We want to help improve the housing support system and increase the amount of money spent on care. In the past, we have made proposals in relation to debt and debt action plans, which we must make, and not least in relation to social welfare. The Joint Organisation and the Fattighuset asked: Who in 2008 will feel that they are less poor than they were in 2007? And that question I will also ask the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e382	I don't think there's any simple answer to that. However, in any case, the aid recipients in the eight largest Norwegian cities are experiencing up to NOK 10 000 more in housing support, and this helps. There are 140,000 more people who have got work, and that clearly means something. There is someone who will be involved in the qualification programme and someone on the introduction programme - there will be a combination of active measures with support possibilities. Overall, there are a few groups and many individuals who are going to experience an improvement. The representative named the Poor House. Yes, I was probably the first councillor to visit the Fattighuset. I have been there afterwards, and I have also planned to take the trip there again. I intend to have contact with several voluntary engagements to look at the interaction that should be with municipalities in order to eradicate poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e389	There will be follow-up questions – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e392	Governments have gone high in the media by promising that the government will provide housing for 5,000 people who need it, i.e. homeless people. The council also told the press that she wanted to follow up what Haga had done for the homeless and the poor. The paradox here is that SV-Holmås says to VG that Haga gives the bluff to the poor. In order to help the State Council on the road to action and to achieve goals set by the Government, the Progress Party will propose that the State Council assess the simplification of the works reports, lower the level of charges in the municipalities, so that it can build cheaper, look at the high level of interest rates in Norway that make housing more expensive, and not least assess the new environmental requirement that the State Council will now introduce for all new dwellings, which the Progress Party believes is also involved in lavishing housing in Norway. What will the Council of State do with these recordings from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e402	Ensuring a better environment in the individual dwelling will mean, with the regulations that are now in place, that it is cheaper to build. It's a good grip, which I didn't intend to reverse. There is now a dialogue with KS about a cooperation agreement to secure more difficult housing in municipalities, i.e. cheaper rentals, start-up loans and new testing of risks. There is a lot of work to do here and a lot of things to follow up. In addition, the bumps are actually significantly improved – there are several that come under the support schemes, and the bumps are paid monthly and increased by NOK 10,000 in the eight largest cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e409	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e412	After the Storting had dealt with the revised national budget in the spring, where the Government did not do anything for the poor who are not part of the working line, the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, said to the Dagbladet that the Government had to intensify itself in relation to poverty reduction. Now Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is part of the Government and has the opportunity to sharpen itself. The housing aid scheme is probably the most targeted scheme when the poor in Norway, which is not part of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's strategy that everyone should be working, because there are some who do not have that possibility in any case. Now is it the case that municipal minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is the first municipal minister since Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa presented the Cohesion Communication, which has not proposed improvements in the housing support scheme that are directed towards others other than those who are part of the working line Does it mean that the municipal minister is satisfied with today's housing support scheme, or does it mean that one did not find room for it in a state budget that was so liberal that one had the opportunity to give tax relief to those who are members of the LO? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e421	The President will remember the time of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e424	Let me start by pointing out: I think that the government is tightening up every time a budget and a revised budget are put in place, in the sense that every time there are new proposals, additions to existing proposals – DKK 1.6 billion more directly to the poverty pact than to the Bondevik II government – and in addition to the local economy and many other proposals that we have already discussed. When it comes to the bumps, my department now has a review of the bumps with the aim of reaching more people and being more focused on them as they should now. But let me remind you: it also has our significant improvements in the bush under this government, among others. increase payments, more into the scheme and monthly payments, which means that more people have come in faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e431	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e434	Many of us in the opposition are amazed that the government, which had so very clear objectives in terms of housing policy in its Soria Moria statement, did not use the occasion as a majority government that could really do what it wanted. They had the money, they had the formulations, but they chose not to invest in housing policy, which we know is one of the big challenges for those who have little money. Increased housing prices and increased rents are a concrete problem that one has to solve with increased transfers. We are amazed that the Government did not choose to bet on it in this budget. There is time to do something in the Storting, not just wait for investigations and for arrangements to be made in the long term. One has to do something in this state budget that applies to next year. I would like to repeat the question that has been raised many times today: will the Council of State be in favour of improving the housing support system at the time of landfill treatment? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e441	This state council had our council for two weeks when the state budget was presented. I had not had the great potential to go into detail in the last turn, but I was behind the budget that was put forward, along with the rest of the government. Now the budget is in Stortinget. Then I must be allowed to say that I am surprised that both from the Right Party and the Advance Party and not least from the Christian People's Party and the Left are serious ambitions on behalf of this government, while the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who put together for four years, continuously promised tax laws and let it go out on those who wore the most. In this way, I can now see that there is greater confidence in today's government when it comes to the fight against poverty. That's good, and we're going to continue with the good work we've started.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e448	Helge Solum Larsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e451	So it turned out that it wasn't that way that you could do this with a pen stroke. The problem of poverty is probably marked by many more complex situations than has been the case in the political debate, such as: has been raised by the Minister of Finance who is currently sitting. The left has repeatedly pointed out that there are enough system errors, that there is reason to look at how we find out about systems so that we reach people, not clientising them, not stigmatizing them, but rather raising them up and down and out of an unpleasant situation, among other things. by means of a proposal for guaranteed minimum income. There is reason to regret that the Central Party does not seem to be reaching the government in this important battle. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State feel that she needs help from a friend at the centre of this important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e460	Thank you for the invitation. It is true that in the Equalisation Notice, a common minimum income was announced. There was no followup in Stortinget. Nor is it something that has been evaluated later. There's nothing in the Soria Moria statement. It may also be that in 1999, when the Equalization message was produced, it was not a good idea to use the word 'poorness' throughout the text. There were very few who would recognize that there were actually some who were either poor or on their way to poverty in Norway. What is now important is that this is a common recognition of the need for concrete action. The government has an ambitious plan in the Soria Moria Declaration and is open to further proposals from whoever it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e470	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e473	I want to ask questions to the Minister of State. The Left Party and the Center have, through a long life, had a great commitment to local democracy, to local solutions, so that it should actually be well distributed across the country. You might get the best solutions if you let people find the solutions locally. That's why the Left was quite amazed when it was Party Secretary Martin Kolberg, who is not a people-elected, but a party-elect, who assumed that the Government was now considering bringing together municipal elections and major elections and having one election day. I realize that from a party secretarial point of view, it's a good thing to do that. It is very practical and easy to have one day to deal with. In addition, the same party secretary believes that a local election is really bringing the government to a referendum. I'm a little overstated that you think by merging both choices in one day you'll get more focus on local issues, more focus on local candidates, and that this will lead to people getting more involved in our local elections. The centre party has previously been on left layers in this area. I realize that from a political point of view, it's very convenient just to deal with the voters every four years. But I wonder: what really indicates that there are more local solutions, more local focus, increased electoral participation, more space in the media for local politicians or more local people in position, not so many central politicians around, to meet the people? Is there any indication that people are going to care more about local democracy by gathering everything in one day?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e484	I argued, with the open handle that left has to break sense, that the government party does not bind each other, whether it is party secretaries or others who express themselves. On the contrary, it is fine that there are different actors who take the initiative and raise debates – including this case. The government is now preparing a local democracy message, which is located in my department. We're busy getting more people involved, both in elections and outside elections, and we're busy showing what local referendums can mean by commitment. We are also going to evaluate this proposal, which I understand has been raised earlier just by Martin Kolberg and has been rejected. We know that there are positive experiences from Sweden, and we know that there may be different views here. There are some who think that then the politicians would be forced to stick to national politics, and local candidates would have the opportunity to focus on their things, and then one would avoid a central and national promise of a policy that was contrary to what those who were on elections from the same party in the same year on the same electoral campaign focused on. I can assure Trine Skei Grande that no conclusion has been reached here. It is a proposal that my department should evaluate with many other proposals. It is also a proposal on which there was a great deal of dissatisfaction in the Local Democratic Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e495	The left is sincerely pleased that the Center Party says that Martin Kolberg does not control everything in the Government. That's why I want to make a recording of maybe going the other way. In 2003, we had a test in Nittedal to have local elections on our own date, not gathered throughout the country. It led to roughly equal electoral participation as otherwise, because it was a very narrow attempt. The left would have liked this to be tried in several municipalities, perhaps in regions, and perhaps with more resources to mobilise around the elections. Is it possible, then, not to go Martin Kolberg's way, but actually to go the other way, by strengthening local democracy by also allowing local politicians to set the election date?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e502	I think an assessment of the test in Nittedal also has its place in such a big message. Perhaps one of the most important things to do with greater attention is how to increase both the electoral process and the political commitment among young people, which is, of course, future for all of us. In this context, I have had a meeting with representatives of the various youth organisations. They are now working on a separate discussion of various measures that can help to strengthen local democracy. They have a deadline for December with that, just to get the recording rated in connection with the crash message. An action with a lot of positive attention and experience are youth councils in different municipalities, and right now I have a mission in Alta to get feedback on their experience in youth councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e507	There will be follow-up questions – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e510	After another low-participation election, we have to look at new solutions, and there has been an excellent proposal by Kolberg, after the view of the Progress Party. We regret it if he is not heard in the Government – at least in terms of this good proposal. In assessing this, you should also look at Sweden. Local elections and parliamentary elections have been held on the same day, and an increase in electoral participation has been achieved. Can we afford not to consider this good proposal from the Labour Party and Martin Kolberg? Still lower turnout is a democratic problem. What will the Council of State do with this proposal from the Workers' Party? Will she put it in the drawer, or will she seriously consider it and see that our neighbours have been successful in it? So in the end, I just want to bring a case report from Nittedal. The previous speakers mentioned that the turnout was on the ground — on the contrary, it was dramatically lower by having one’s own election day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e519	The representative Thomsen asks if we can afford not to evaluate the experiences of Sweden. My answer is that we should evaluate the experiences of Sweden. But we also need to consider the counter-representatives that are both in the Local Democratic Commission and with other actors, where one is warned of the danger of focusing on national policies. What must then be an important thing is to assess whether we should continue in the same way as now with options every other year. We will then need to consider further measures with regard to what one can do in order for more people to get involved both in political and electoral contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e524	Kari Lise Holmberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e527	The right clear impression from the municipal elections is that the voters were very frustrated that the local elections were too much dominated by national politicians. This means that the voters are concerned that local elections are local, and that the politicians they choose locally are those who also decide in their municipality. This believes that the right has a major impact on the electoral process. Former municipal minister Åslaug Haga has told Stavanger Aftenblad that she put her foot down for SV's proposal to deprive local politicians of the local governance of the coastal zones. Now in the throne, it was announced that the new planning and building law will be presented from the Government this autumn. Can the Minister of Local Affairs confirm that the Central Party has still placed its foot firmly on the neck of the Minister of Environmental Protection and that there will be no further reduction in the power of local politicians? In this case, it will lead to less interest in local policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e536	I can confirm that sitting with the foot on the neck of another minister is not the best starting point for a good dialogue and to find good solutions to a matter that the Government has actually warned in the Soria Moria statement. In the Soria Moria statement, there is a warning of a narrowing in the practice of exemptions in the hundred meter belt, and there is also a warning of a review of a new planning and building law in connection with it. This matter will come to Stortinget early next year or around the turn of the year, so the representative Holmberg will live in excitement until then. But there are also strong wordings in the Soria Moria Declaration to strengthen local self-government. Let it also be said in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e542	Anne Margrethe Larsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e545	Yes, the Center Party and the Left are deeply concerned with local democracy, and it's under pressure from many teams. The left fears that a common election day will help to weaken local democracy. I'm recording the response of the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa that you'll see. The Left is pleased that the Government has notified the follow-up of the Local Democratic Commission with its own message to spring, and we hope for a broad debate in the Stortinge on this. So said government councillor Meltveit Kleppa this with youth and political activity. So the question is, LNU is for it, and the left is for it. Why not assess the age of voting rights of 16 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e552	Let me first – to fix something that I was a little confused about – tell you what youth organisations are invited to make recordings. There is also one of the organisations in the LNU, as well as the Student Organisation. It's not just the political ones, it would be a little too sloppy. So the question of lowering the voting age to 16 years has recently been in the Stortinget, now in ours, by handling a constitution proposal, which was not then joined here. I see that this is a proposal that is now going to come into contact with the message work, both from the LNU and from the Children's Environment. That means that we should also give our assessment of it, but I'm probably mainly busy with other measures that should also have wide support here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e559	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e562	It looks as if the Council of State is working to get on the track, so my question is going to go to him. It now appears that three or four of the country's eleven bishops are going to go off in 2008. This occurs in a situation where the Norwegian Church faces major and important structural discussions, both in the Church-State relationship, in the development of church democracy, theological discussions that have taken place for a number of years, etc. The Advance Party believes it is important that the Church itself appoints its top leaders. We recognise, of course, that it is not the system today, but we believe it is important that they have broad support among those whom they should actually lead. Then we see from previous statements by the Council of State that he is concerned about retaining the political appointment of the Church's top leaders. We see that more and more representatives from the government parties, when it comes to the appointment of business stops, go to leaders' party books in front of appointment. It worries me, because if there are both party books and political opinions that will underlie the assessment of who will be the Church's future leaders, I think the Church is facing very great challenges. I therefore want to challenge the Council of State to be clear as to what elements he will focus on when appointing the future leaders of the Church. Is it the case that the Council of State will go to party books and theological position, or will the Council of State, as the Party of Advancement recommends, base the Church's own recommendations on its recommendation to the Council of Churches?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e571	Thank you for the question! For a while I was concerned that the only thing that was in my field was the Secretary of Fisheries' comment on pop stars. I'm happy to have a question. First, a clarification: when the Church Council appoints bishops, i.e. the members of the Church of the Government, in the King of the Council of State, it is the Church itself. It's like church members and government members we do it. It's an organ in the Norwegian Church. It is not politicians who rule the Church, it is church members who have a word with them in church decision-making issues. This happens after a comprehensive nomination process. First, the Bishops' Council nominees, so many different organs in the Norwegian Church pronounce themselves before the church council appoints a bishop. I guess we have a tradition in Norway that what comes out through the nomination, the electoral systems, in advance, is given very great weight. Sometimes, however, the Church Council of State does not conclude with the person who has received the most votes. One has to weigh the different groups that have voted. One must also, in my and the government's view, try to get to an overall college of bishops of eleven people who reflect the wide range of views in the Norwegian Church. If, for example: Only were liberal bishops among the eleven, a more theological conservative bishop should be appointed, so that the vision was reflected in the college, and vice versa. We should also try to achieve a better gender balance than the one we've had. It's beginning to be a few years since the first female bishop was appointed, but still we're far from a steady balance. So here's a lot of considerations to consider. That's why it makes sense that we have a system where you can't just automatically take the one that gets the most votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e580	I am grateful for the answer, but I was quite disturbed by the answer, because what the Council of State confirms is that there are assessments by the Council of State and the Church Council of State of the various candidates that will be the tongue on the scale when the bishops are to be appointed. It is worrying in a situation where one can then risk appointing bishops who do not have the necessary strength and trust among those to be led. I'm sorry for that answer. I had hoped that the view of the Advance Party, which is that one by appointment in the Church Council of State should follow the recommendations you have received, and take into account those who have received the most votes. In other contexts, there are government representatives who are very clear that one believes that the wit is fairly evenly distributed across the country. Then the follow-up question becomes: why is it that the Council of State believes that there is a common sense in the Church Council of State than it is in other church organs?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e589	Now I believe that there is an unusual amount of knowledge in the congregation that constitutes the Church Council of State, but I do not overlook the fact that there is at least as much knowledge in other church organs. The question is how to create a purely mathematical system. Here, there are quite different groups who vote and express their opinion in the nomination up to the final conclusion. Many of them are themselves appointed. The bishops, for example, are not elected by any other than the Church Council of State in a previous process. We have community council, which is elected by 3 pst. by the members, and then we have the Church Council of State, which emerges from a government and a magnificence, which is elected by 70-80 pst. by the members of the churches participating in those elections. So what's most democratic, and what's best reflects the Church itself, I think is a topic that can very well be discussed, and which has strong arguments that the church council also represents the Church itself in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e596	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e599	Yes, the discussion of democracy in the Church is fast becoming a discussion about chicken and eggs. I really assume that the Council of Churches believes that it is more important to have faith in God than to have faith in the Labour Party in the Norwegian Church. We are facing a rather demanding process in the matter of church and state. The Council of State has repeatedly said that more decisions and more power, including the appointment of bishops, should be left to the Church's organs themselves "after each" and that there must be more democracy in the Church. So a natural follow-up question is: does the Council of State have any clear signals to the Church about what is going to happen to achieve greater power?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e608	Again, the Church Council of State is an organ of the Norwegian Church. It's part of the Church itself. As Minister of the Church, I am a member of the Norwegian Church. I am also part of the Church itself, and it is my colleagues who are members of the Church. It is absolutely an important objective to provide better democratic systems in the Norwegian Church. It will be part of the state church discussion how we can get a completely different participation in the church elections in 2009. Should more than one body be selected by direct selection? In Sweden, a system has been introduced whereby the Church Meeting is chosen by direct elections. All of these questions will be dealt with in depth in the big message that the Government gives about state and church, and I hope that we have a common position both in position and in opposition, that we need to get more participation in the church elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e616	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e619	The appointment of bishops is about church autonomy, and it is also about respecting freedom of belief. I think it's a little bit suspicious that the Council of State doesn't even mention this with freedom of faith in this context. But self-government is also about economics. It was a shock to read in the state budget that the ownership of the Church Fund, where we have been united politically, is to make a political decision about who owns it, now is only determined and placed with the state. It's tempting to say that this is the biggest robbery we've seen since the Vikings were in Europe. I think it promises a little bad for the cooperation on the church-state case. We are several people who have said that economic issues must also be brought into such a context. My specific question is: What legal considerations does the Council of State have as a basis for making such a provision that the Church Fund is now the State's fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e628	If the representative Eriksen was shocked at that, it must also be about her own government, the previous government, for in St.meld. No 41 for 2004-2005, the following can be read, with reference to the Ministry of Justice Department: ‘The division of law concluded that it must be considered as certain that the State is the owner of the fund.’ So this isn't just our government has said to the Storting. The previous government has also referred to the law department’s old assessment of the State as the owner of the fund. Of course, because the Church of State is part of the state. It's not a legal entity of its own, so when we have a state church, the property of the Church is also the property of the state. What is going to happen to a distinction is a political question. It's not a legal question. What we have said is that if there is a distinction, of course, the state and the community must still have a great responsibility for religious practice, even for the Norwegian Church. Then it's about a lot, a lot more than just the fund. The fund is enough to run the Church for two to three years. One has to go a lot harder to help the Church's economy even after a divorce – if that should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e638	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e641	What was done in the previous round was to refer to the Law Department, and everyone who knows legal practice knows that the Law Department sometimes speaks ex cathedra, and that the Government has its own discretion. To my question: The left considers the Norwegian Church – although it is a state church, which the Left opposes – as a religious community. I was one of those people who didn't think we were going to get the arrangement that the Church meeting has become. It has evolved into a living body, where what we call both the tradition of office and the tradition of children's playthings, meets in quite arduous debates. We also see that they find solutions to challenging questions, including: in the attitude to respect the existence of two visions in the homophilic matter. The church meeting in its time said that one should select bishop among the three who had the most votes in the church vote. By this one on Steelset was Steelset within that frame – I think he was number two. By those who I myself had in his time on Pettersen, he was also within that frame. Can the Council of State Giske confirm that the Government will adhere to the Council of the Church to elect a bishop among the three who have received the most votes in the church vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e650	We've even had a trial plan with that system. The natural thing will probably be to choose from the three that have received the most votes and have been cancelled, but we have to take an overall assessment. I have already participated in the preparation and participation of the Church Council of State and appointed two bishops – Tor Berger Jørgensen in Sør-Hålogaland and Solvency Fishing in Hamar. I have the impression that both appointments were well received, and that they felt that the church council had respected the previous nomination process. I think you can feel confident that we will also work in the same way with the upcoming appointments. The question of whether other church bodies can take over these appointments is very closely linked to better democratic elections in the Church, greater electoral participation and possibly more direct elections. But we're going to work on this together in connection with the big message that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e657	Åse M. Schmidt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e660	We know that the Council of State is very eloquent. He has proved that both in this room and outside that he is, so I'm actually going to make it pretty simple for the council, and I just want a yes or no. Does the Council of State think that he is better qualified to make decisions about the appointment of management than the Church itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e667	There is a question that unfortunately cannot be answered yes or no, so I reserve the right to use the speaking ability to answer a little more fully. I think that a system how many people speak, and how many people participate, is a good system. I don't think one person or one organ alone knows best. That is why we have a very comprehensive system of nomination and vote around a bishop's election, which is concluded by the Church Council of State. This is a good system. It ensures that we get a width. This ensures that we have many views reflected, and it ensures, among other things, that: that we can take into account gender balance, different theological sites, etc. It may be that this can change in the future, and perhaps even improve, but if one is to move this decision from the church council to other church bodies, it is required that these bodies are better anchored in elections among church members than they are today. We are working on this in the preparation of the Land and Church paper.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e674	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e681	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. Questions 5 and 6 from the representatives Arne Sortevik and Borghild Tenden respectively to the Minister for Transport are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Harald Victor Hove to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e700	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘The voluntary registration of companies which are required to make VAT compulsory rentals under Regulation 117 must be made no later than the charging date for the first lease to be deducted from VAT. on construction costs. If, for various reasons, you are delayed so that the rental relationship has run only a short time before registration, the right to deduct is lost for all VAT. at construction costs. What will the Council of State do to ensure that such delayed registration can be corrected when all other formalities are in proportion to VAT. can be documented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e714	On 1 January, new provisions for capital goods shall enter into force. They shall include, inter alia: real estate and means that we come to the request of the representative Fleet. The new adjustment provisions result in a subsequent right to deduct if a capital product acquired for use in non-taxable activities is subsequently used in taxable activities. In the case of rental of real estate, the deduction as a starting point will apply for the period of voluntary registration of the rental activity. Initially, only registered traders operating on a fee-based basis, as the representative of the Fleet, have the right to deduct input VAT. Since the rental of premises falls outside the charging area, the lessor must register voluntarily in order to obtain the right to deduct. In general, a room rented for a period prior to the voluntary registration of the establishment has not been entitled to an in-depth charge on the entry costs. However, there are legal proceedings here concerning the understanding of the legislation. The new adjustment provisions will give us more flexibility in the VAT system. Thus, companies renting real estate but which have not provided for voluntary registration in the term in which the rental relationship takes effect will be able to obtain a subsequent right of deduction for the inward charge paid for the construction of the property. Therefore, the adjustment provisions could remedy the unfortunate consequences of late voluntary registration of the rental activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e725	I thank you for the answer, which is positive. I know there's things on the stairs. But my question is also a gateway to the purely general attitude of the authorities to the consequences of non-registration. This is because, without going into difficult details, if there are formal errors, the administration of the VAT you should have deducted is very often denied, although it can be shown that it is formally in order. Then you will also very often be charged 15 pst. additional tax, and interest will be calculated on the total amount of VAT. The question is: will you look at the possibilities not to avoid VAT, but to make it a little simpler in cases where it is quite obvious that there was no intention?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e730	This is a very general question. I fear, however, that there are some very specific issues or examples at the back, so I have no further signals to give than those I have already given with regard to what are now the adjustment provisions, which are being implemented from 1 January, and which will create a more flexible system in relation to the main issue raised by the Fleet. If there are further clues on this issue and concrete examples, I would suggest that the representative fleet sends me a written question about it. Then he will receive a detailed and written answer, so that there is no misunderstanding about how this is to be understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e735	I really don't understand why the Council of State thinks that there's pinnacles behind my questions. There's no reason for that. This is a general consideration. The VAT code is strict. It has to be. I wasn't really looking for the Council of State to wash out anything here, but just after having a confirmation that she could agree with me a little bit on the way, that you can generally see in retrospect that things are really okay, but that because of a difficult regulation it has been made wrong, maybe look at the relief of the sanctions in such cases. It's still a very rigid exercise, even after the changes that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e742	It's always demanding to enforce a code that needs to have some boundaries somewhere. If it doesn't, if the degree of discretion is very high, we quickly get into many examples of discrimination. We are trying to manage this regulation with flexibility, but at the same time within the limits that it stands there. On a general basis, I just want to say, we have a regulation. It's tough. There is fair practice, but also flexibility. I'm not coming up with any new signals now that we're going to base anything else on the future. If the representative fleet has some single examples he thinks is completely unreasonablely handled by us, I would like to accept them, then we can go through them for example. But I think it's dangerous to express yourself in general terms that can give signals that can't be followed up later, if you're going to stick to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e753	‘The government has long promised comprehensive measures to prevent a power crisis in Central Norway. One of the measures envisaged was mobile gas power plants, but now the Council of State has announced that they should not be used. The government has done nothing to stimulate gas power projects in the region, and the Government's renewable effort has put most renewable projects on ice. What concrete instruments will the Government use to prevent a power crisis in Middle Norway in the coming years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e760	The government takes the vulnerability of the Norwegian power supply seriously and has been active in this area since the accession. A lot of work has been done. Several concessions have been granted for hydropower projects, such as: to the CHP plant at Mongstad. At the same time, the 2008 budget for energy efficiency, heat and electricity from renewable sources is being increased. These are important contributions to improving the power balance. Before Christmas last year, the main features of the Middle Norway Action Plan were presented. The Government’s plan to strengthen the power situation in the region is based on measures for increased transmission capacity, increased investment in energy conversion and new production, and other measures to ensure security of supply in central Norway. Several major network investments, specifically linked to the expansion of Norsk Hydro’s aluminiumworks on Sunndalsøra and the Worm Lange extension, have been carried out. Statnet has invested in voltage support in the network that will improve transmission capacity in and into central Norway from this autumn. Statnet has also decided to invest in increased transmission capacity between Central Norway and Sweden to be in place in 2009. In addition, Statnett has submitted a concession request for a new transmission link between Sogn and More to NVE. Facilitating different types of new power generation and focusing on energy efficiency is important to improve the power situation in Central Norway. The 2008 State budget provided for a significant increase in the investment in energy conversion measures under the auspices of Enova. The overall envelope is approximately 1 450 million. kr for 2008. This is an increase of 660 million. kr from 2007. In addition, the renewable electricity support scheme is reinforced by an additional 200 million. kr. At the same time, the NVE strengthens case handling capacity and prioritises concession cases for water and wind power in Central Norway. Furthermore, the NVE has a strong focus on the effective concession treatment of generation and transfer facilities in the region. Norway has a good basis for significantly increasing environmentally friendly energy production, and we need to use energy more efficiently than we do today. The increases in the 2008 budget for energy efficiency improvement, heat and electricity from renewable energy sources will be an important contribution to achieving this. Plans have been presented for several gas power projects in central Norway. The government is reviewing the possibility of realising new gas power projects with CO2 management. I am about to contact the current developers in central Norway and ask for meetings to get a better understanding of the various projects. The aim is to achieve a solution as quickly as possible. Finally, significant efforts are being made to improve the power situation in central Norway. A wide range of measures are being implemented such as increased transmission capacity, increased investment in energy conversion and different types of new production, as well as other measures to ensure security of supply in the region. I will follow the situation closely, and the work to improve the power situation in Central Norway will have a very high priority in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e778	I notice, of course, that the Council of State elegantly jumps over mobile gas power plants, which were part of the question. Norway is the net importer of power, and the predecessor of the Council of State, Odd Roger Enoxen, so soon a year ago that Norway is probably the only country in the world that has no reserve power solutions. Then you have to ask the question: if you are not going to use these mobile gas power plants, what does the Council of State want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e785	Statnett has invested in two reserve power plants in Central Norway, each of 150 MW. Reserve power is an emergency measure intended only to be used in so-called very demanding power situations and should therefore not be used as an ordinary power generation. It is therefore quite right that, initially, reserve power should not be used, but should only be a measure as a last resort when the likelihood of rationalisation is high. There are very restrictive conditions for the use of reserve power and this will continue to be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e790	I guess I'll say I'm partly satisfied with the answer, but I expect this debate to come up again. In the end, what was mentioned about the renewable action. The government has increased the budget line - that is correct. But it has done nothing about the concrete support schemes. They believe that the aid schemes are too poor, and this means that the projects are being put on ice. So finally, I'm going to ask, what kind of grip will the Council of State take to secure the increase they want? Will they increase the rates of aid schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e797	Now it is important to stress that there are a good deal of plans in Middle Norway on the renewable side, and we have to hope that many of these can be realised. At the same time, there is a wide-ranging discussion also in the trade unions related to the various support schemes that we have. I can repeat what I said earlier, namely that I am concerned about having a full review of the various support schemes that we have on the renewable side, because this is important for energy supply in the future. We get signals that things can be done better, so we need to have a full review of the support schemes. It will take some time, but I will promise that I will do what I can to keep pace with this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e815	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e822	This question, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge and Research on behalf of the Minister for Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e825	Since the Minister for the Environment will not be present in an ordinary Question Time before 7 November, I am confident that the Minister of Knowledge will take care of her interests. ‘There is great concern among the population both in Oslo, Oppegård and Nesodden related to the poison dumping at the Malmøykalven in the inner Oslofjord. In the past, the Council of State has expressed an understanding of such unrest and has assured itself that State pollution control is closely monitoring compliance with the emissions permit. Similarly, Secora now admits that the rock masses have been dumped at the Malmøykalven contrary to the permit, but without that SFT noticed anything. Are state councils satisfied with SFT’s management of the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e834	The Ren Oslo soil project is a comprehensive environmental measure to which polluted masses in the Oslo port area are either removed or covered – for the benefit of all those who use the inner Oslo soil. It is a very thoroughly prepared project with a very comprehensive environmental monitoring. Environmental monitoring of both the dredging and the landfill is carried out by the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute, NGI, and the Norwegian Institute for Water Research, NIVA. The SFT has authorised the project and supervises compliance with the strict environmental requirements of the permit. Work is being monitored with an environmental monitoring programme that is the most comprehensive we have ever seen. Some examples of this are that: in the water around the landfill area, even at the outlet pipe, there are particle meters that indicate that there is more moisture in the water than the SFT has permitted. In this case, the landfill stops temporarily, and water samples are taken to see if the leaky environmental poisons in the water around the landfill area are also placed and any environmental contaminants from the landfill are controlled by underwater cameras, and the seabed is monitored by profiling camera that detects dirt leaking out of the landfill and deposits on the bottom of the sea are sampled by blue mussel because blue mussel easily absorbs environmental pollutants in the water, and fish and shrimp samples are also taken. So far, all the studies have shown that the project is going according to plan. State company Secora carries out the dredging and deposit on behalf of Oslo port. The company's work is now being examined by Veritas, and the police are investigating the company for possible environmental crime. SFT awaits feedback from Oslo Port in week 42 on the review to Veritas. If this demonstrates that illegal methods have been used in the landfill, the SFT will take the necessary measures and will also assess police reporting. However, the Minister for the Environment will stress that she strongly responds to the illegal acts that Secora has admitted. Secora has informed that they have taken measures to avoid anything similar from happening again, and she sees it as crucial to have confidence in the work that Secora has been set to do. NIVA has assessed the possible environmental impact of Secora’s dumping of stone. NIVA has concluded that the dumping of pure stone will not contribute to a significant increase in the spread out of the landfill area or to the spread of environmental pollutants to the area outside the Basin. NGI says that if the dumping of cleaned stone has led to the spread out of the landfill area, this would have been captured by the monitoring system. The SFT has helped to ensure that this project is implemented with a very comprehensive environmental monitoring. They follow the case very closely and take the necessary measures on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e864	The Council of State said that this happening at the Malmøykalven and in the interior of Oslofjord is subject to a very comprehensive environmental monitoring. However, the fact is that those who were then to monitor that this is happening under the permits have not revealed what Secora has done and that they have admitted that they have actually done. So the state council said SFT is waiting. I think that is quite indicative of what many feel SFT's handling of this matter involves, that is, waiting. Should something go wrong, it would really go wrong in a very vulnerable area. So my question in this matter that has so much significance is: Wouldn't it be better to have a lead was-prince tip instead of waiting and seeing if anything wrong has actually happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e875	The Minister for the Environment underlines very strongly that she is responding to the illegal acts of Secora. This is being investigated by Veritas, and the police are also investigating whether there is a possibility of environmental crime. It is relatively normal to wait for what this investigation will reveal, and as far as I know, you will receive feedback from Oslo Harbour in week 42 about the investigation carried out by Veritas. It is clear that it is serious what has been revealed, and therefore it is also handled by the Minister for the Environment with the seriousness of the matter required.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e882	I probably don't need to remind you of what the party traps of both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister of Knowledge at local level think about this, for example. on the Nesodden. I'm sure the state council knows that well. The situation is now, according to legislation, so that there is no dumping of contaminated mass that has been on land in the sea. But you can dump contaminated mass that's been taken up from the sea, in the sea. My final question is: does the Council of State think it's a paradox?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e889	I ask for understanding that I take this issue with me to the Minister for the Environment. I don't even have such an in-depth knowledge of this that I think I'm going to give an answer to the kick here in the Questionnaire. But I promise that I will take this with me to the Minister for the Environment, and then the representative Syversen will get a supplementary answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e916	These questions are postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e926	‘By decision of the Bergen City Council, a heavy-duty tariff was introduced for motorists in the municipality of Bergen. However, the condition for this decision was that it would be not only a local policy decision on implementation but also the abolition of that charge. The Bergen City Council has taken its decision to abolish the tax imposed by the municipality itself, but the answer from the Road Directorate is no. Does the Council of State consider that the management by the Directorate of Road Affairs of the municipality’s application for the settlement of fees to be in line with the Minister’s local democratic mindset?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e933	The municipality of Bergen took its decision on the imposition of a heavy duty charge and was followed by an application to the Directorate of Road Transport. This is according to Section 2 of the Regulation of 7 May 1999 concerning the charge for the use of high-speed tyres and additional charges, which states that: ‘Decisions on the introduction of heavy duty tyres in the municipalities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger require the agreement of the Directorate of Roads.’ It is also stated in the same regulation that: ‘a municipality may apply to the Directorate of Road for the winding-up of the scheme as described in this Regulation’. See. the second paragraph of Section 14 of the regulation. In other words, it is clear from the regulation that the winding-up of the scheme must also be approved by the Road Directorate. It is not possible to impose assumptions contrary to the regulation on a decision on the charging of heavy duty tyres. The municipality of Bergen sent an application for the termination of the tipping fee to the Directorate of Road. The Road Directorate examined the application and gave its response to the municipality, cf. letter of 19 September 2007, in which they reject the municipality of Bergen’s application. The procedure for dealing with this matter is therefore entirely in line with the legislation in force. Any complaint to the Directorate of Roads’ decision will be dealt with by the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e952	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I understand that it is not possible to go directly into a matter that the Ministry might consider, but I think it is important to clarify whether there is consistency between the government's stated policy on the introduction of charges to reduce car use and environmental promotion taxes, as the Government itself refers to them, i.e. the rush time charge and the heavy duty charge, and the directorate's management of this matter and the policy of several government councils on the basis of which a local decision and a local responsibility must be based if such charges are to be imposed or abolished. At least such a policy does not seem to be present now. There is a great uncertainty among several municipalities that this is a sign that you can risk having to continue a fee that you do not want to continue, if you have first introduced it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e957	I have to deal with the legislation today. How to handle this is defined in the regulation, from which I have quoted the different paragraphs. And so is it, if we look at the facts of the case, that the experience from Oslo shows that if you stop charging the tipping tyre, the use of the tipping tyre goes up again. The municipality of Oslo closed the electrical tyre system after it had worked for two seasons. The number of spikes fell from 79 pst. in 2001 to 68 pst. in 2002. The peak tyre scheme was reintroduced in Oslo from 2005. This shows that the reality of the matter is such that the impact of the tipping charge is on one of the challenges that we are dealing with, namely, that we're all going to have to breathe in the best possible way, even in our cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e966	I agree with the Council of State that it is positive that such a charge can be imposed as you see the peak tyre ratio from season to season. Therefore, I am also very pleased that the Municipality of Oslo was given the opportunity to reintroduce the heavy-duty tyre charge after the local politicians there took up the elements pointed to by the Council of State. But the question here is: can the Council of State clarify whether it is the government's policy that reintroduction or liquidation of such a charge is a local responsibility? I feel that the Council of State is now trying to find other assumptions, which the Directorate of Roads has also pointed to, and base them on their answer in the Questionnaire today. It helps create new uncertainties. It must be possible to expect some shocks, even if this government is only two years old and not as much as you can expect from a two-year-old, and that there can be a clear answer as to whether it is a local responsibility to introduce, liquidate or possibly reintroduce such a fee, and that there will be no other reason to consider an application for the directorate and an appeal to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e971	The government's policy is very clear in this area. That's exactly why I've been careful to quote from the paragraphs that regulate this area. There is no doubt about what is the government's policy. Then it is said that in the budget agreement in Bergen between the City Council and the Progress Party last November, a budget settlement was made that the heavy-duty tyre fee should be removed after only one season. Taking that decision into account, we should all take into account what the legislation is – we should all follow – that it is up to the Directorate of Roads to take the final position on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e982	I would like to address a question to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The situation with the missing school books appears chaotic. NRK Hedmark reports on 17 September that the higher education schools in India have copied 1 million pages. The evening post writes on September 29 that students are without books in 16 subjects and are happy if they get them for Christmas. Copying is expensive for schools and also a critically poor solution for students. Does the State Council see the situation as dramatic as it appears, and what initiatives were taken to avoid the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e991	Free advanced education materials were introduced for Vg2 now in the autumn. The purchase of learning material is mainly through the conclusion by county councils of apprenticeship contracts following a tendering round. It has then usually been up to the schools to order the teaching materials they want, according to these agreements. The empowerment of schools to determine the teaching materials they want is linked to the principle of freedom of method in the Knowledge Promise. The purchase of educational material takes place through private-law agreements between the school owner and the seller of educational material, i.e. the point of sale of booksellers. Municipalities and county councils are not obliged to report on the purchase of educational material to the department. This year there have been major problems with the delivery of learning material to Vg2. The delivery problems are probably due to several reasons and a combination of these: Orders at schoolbooks have been late.The publishing centre has experienced major delivery problems. the application of barcodes and the application of barcodes has resulted in an additional flak neck. I look very seriously at the situation that has arisen. On 3 October I therefore had a meeting with representatives from the publishers and distributors of teaching materials to clarify the situation. I was then assured that all the material I ordered would be out with the students in a few weeks – two weeks, it was said, but I have given them one week extra. I want a new meeting with the publishers, distributors and the bookstore in the new year. In addition, in meeting the County Council, I would like to stress the need to start much earlier next year with the preparation and ordering of textbooks, so that it is with the publishers before. In this way, we can ensure that such problems that have arisen this year will not occur next harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1019	I am very pleased that the Council of State is taking up free teaching material, because it may seem that the situation has arisen as a result of poor follow-up to a political project. I have seen that the Council of State has been quoted as a fact that the patching has been a bend to get the books out. It's a little paradox for a government that's going to think the environment at all stages, that patching is going to be a problem. But it is not that we were not warned in advance that this was going to be a demanding reform. A lot of people told me about it in advance. At that time, I expected the Council of State to take initiatives for meetings and to get into the situation in good time before school. School starts in August. It should be assumed that books are in place for school start-ups. So the meeting to which the Council of State referred was held on 3 October. Then I have to ask: why didn't you take initiative with the industry earlier this summer to learn a little about how to actually deliver new school books?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1026	Of course, since last autumn’s decision on the introduction of free learning material and how it was to be implemented, there has been a strong focus on this in the department. We have been assured that the publishers were on schedule, and that this was going to be handled as it should be handled. There are many different reasons why this fall has not been as we would have liked – late ordering, major problems with deliveries from distributors, and new computer systems that have not worked properly. We've got a lot of explanations and explanations from the many actors here. At the beginning of September, we got the impression that this was now manageable. That means we didn't call a meeting at the beginning of September, which we originally thought, because we thought this would be handled. So it turned out that it wasn't going to be handled. I assume that the publishers and the other operators in this market will comply with the insurance I have now received. But what might be equally important is that we agree that we're going to have new meetings in the New Year to go through this very carefully, look at all the challenges you've had this year, how they can be handled for the next year, so that when VG3 introduces free teaching materials for the next autumn, all the school books in the classroom are at school start.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1033	I think that's very good. It was just to be lacking that one did not ensure that similar situations did not arise until next year. I hear that the department has focused heavily on this, but when you are surprised that the patching of books is a problem and a bottleneck in October, I can't quite understand that the focus has been so strong. The fact is, there are many students who have had an incredibly bad start in a school year. The student organisations have been out and asked that it be considered to compensate the students who have been affected, for example. with homework. Will the Council of State take concrete action to compensate the students who have been hit by the mess that has occurred around school books in the fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1044	It is clear that there has been a very demanding situation in the school in the fall, and I very much appreciate the patience that, after all, has been demonstrated by teachers and students when they have met a very demanding situation. That's right what Gundersen's representative refers to, that hundreds of thousands have been taken, if not a million, copies to meet the problems that the textbooks weren't there. It is clear that this has been an additional stress factor for the school. So it's also the way – let me stress it – that the freedom of method that lies in the curriculum we have makes you not necessarily need textbooks. You can also use other sources. Many teachers have now used sources other than the traditional textbook to provide full education. But it is clear that the situation has been unsustainable, as I have stressed. We have now received assurances that the publishers and the other operators will deliver the books within a very short time. I assume that's what I'm going to do. The most important thing is the process we now agree on further, that from the next harvest in good time you will be assured that everything is as it should be: the books are produced and can be delivered to the school at school start.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1055	I have this question for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In what way will the Council of State ensure that minority children returning to Norwegian school after long stay in foreign schools receive an offer that is sufficiently adapted to them and has the Council of State assessed whether it is possible to look at further measures related to a possible system of foreign school verification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1062	The Oslo College presented in May 2006 the report ‘Schooling in Pakistan — Children with a migrant background who attend school in their parents’ country of origin’. The report highlights both the positive and the negative aspects of schooling. As part of the follow-up to the report, the Directorate of Education, commissioned by the Ministry of Knowledge, has developed a teaching guide on foreign education. The guide, which was published this summer, gives useful tips to parents who consider sending their children to school in their country of origin. It is also intended as a support for school and kindergarten employees, and the supervisor shall serve as a starting point for dialogue between the supervisor and school or kindergarten on how they can cooperate in the run-up to, during and after stays abroad. The supervisor is per year. today translated into Turkish and Urdu, and it will also be translated into English and Somali. The report from the College shows that those who have managed to maintain their bilingual competence during their stay in Pakistan seem to be the most successful. The purpose of the State Complementary Education Grant Scheme is to provide students at foreign or international primary schools in Norway or abroad with support for supplementary education in, inter alia: Norwegian. The grant scheme may therefore contribute to the maintenance of the competence of students taking all or part of their primary education abroad in Norwegian during their stay abroad. In addition, there is reason to stress that all pupils in public schools in Norway are entitled to satisfactory benefits from training. If the individual student does not have a satisfactory benefit from his or her regular training, the school is obliged to offer specific measures. Current actions may be specific language training for pupils from linguistic minorities and special education. I can do it. currently do not see the need to establish a verification mechanism in respect of initial training abroad. In my opinion, it is important, however, that schools that receive new or former students in the middle of their schooling should monitor students, among other things. the level of competence in the profession so that appropriate action can be taken as quickly as possible, if necessary. Of course, such a survey can also help students to obtain the best possible benefit from the professional development they have had in school abroad. In this context, I can also mention that a survey tool related to the new curriculum in basic Norwegian has recently been completed. Nevertheless, it is important that schools have a resource perspective on students coming from schools in another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1077	I am pleased with the answer, and am also pleased that the answer was given not only to me, but also in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. My question has been raised because I am concerned about an important aspect of Norwegian integration policy, and also what the Council of State addressed in its response, namely adapted training. It started with the fact that we — in a country like ours, where there is a training obligation, but not a school obligation — got quite a lot of messages about hundreds of children who suddenly got away from school. Fortunately, it's sunk, so it's smaller now. I just want to ask the Council of State to see if you're going to have a cooperation project between the departments concerned and the municipalities concerned to see if you can further increase the insight into what's happening to these children who are going to be gone when they come back – not because I have something critical to say to the Council of State, because I think that's good, but because I think this is an area where we have to learn something all the way. Getting such concrete knowledge may also help to promote both the ideal of integration, prevent segregation and ensure what I know the Council of State said to me at the time of the answer, namely an adapted training for these students as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1086	I am pleased with Mr Dørum's comments. Of course, it is a challenge for the school that many children are away in parts of the school year and do not receive the training they need, especially in Norwegian, in order to be able to master Norwegian society. This report from the College gives you a good knowledge of some of this. This isn't just a challenge, it's of course also a resource that we have bilingual children in Norwegian school, it's an advantage for our society. But Norwegian language is the most important to work in Norwegian society. Together with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, we have already taken the initiative for a project to be co-financed, which will start in 2009, in order to acquire further knowledge of schooling in the country of origin of parents, with the background of this report from the Oslo College to which reference is made. This will be a follow-up study for children and young people who have attended school in Pakistan, on how to continue their success in studies and careers in Norway. So there's already an initiative to gain more knowledge, but basically we're very open to see if things can be done in a better and even more successful way than what we're doing now, because this is a big challenge for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1093	I thank you for your answer. Politics has many arenas. It's an arena for reflected dialogue. It's an arena for serious and cash opposition, and it's an arena for something in the middle. This is the arena for a necessary dialogue, because I think it's important. So the Council of State's answer that it's taken initiative, it's pleasing to me. I just want to encourage that cooperation between two important departments adds to every thought – thoughts that I believe the Council of State does not have – about who has the political color, when you sit down with, for example, the Council of State. Oslo Municipality, which is logical, with the large minority share of the Municipality of Oslo, and when the Government now bets both in Groruddalen and in Søndre Nordstrand, and the municipality of Drammen. Then you'll get very close to the groups that the Council of State talked about in the answer to me. If now the dialogue that has been created could evolve to include these important municipalities, with the large number of children there, we could perhaps go a step further in promoting a policy that better ensures us how we live with a multicultural Norway with rights and obligations for everyone, but also in promoting the ideals that I think the Council of State has presented very properly in its response to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1100	I can confirm very clearly that making sure that everyone who lives in Norway can and master Norwegian does not have any political color. It's a question that our government is concerned about. We have done some grips that are different from that of the previous government, among other things. This is to introduce the curriculum in basic Norwegian, which we believe will help more children succeed in Norwegian schooling. But this isn't an ideological question, it's a question based on the knowledge we have at all times about what steps to take in school to make sure that more of our children learn and more of our children succeed. That is why I am very concerned that the municipality of Oslo, as the representative of Dørum addresses, is the municipality in Norway which has the greatest competence for bilingual children in school. The experience and knowledge of employees in the Municipality of Oslo, and of course also of political leadership, are crucial for the actions we will take in the future – some with the school alone, but some with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, which is, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Norway. We are open to dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo and all the other good forces in school that allow us to give better and precise answers, under the same heading that I know the representative of Dørum share: more children will succeed in school, more children will learn in school, and we will take care of the cultural diversity we have in our society. It's a great enrichment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1111	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion: ‘NAV’s National Standard for Interpreting Service states that ‘the Help Centre shall have available interpretation services and have appropriate procedures to provide users of interpreters with a coherent and predictable service independent of geography’. In Finnmark, the interpretation position has been unaccompanied in recent years and responsibility has been assigned to the interpreting service in Troms. During the autumn, all the permanent staff join the interpreters in Troms. What will the Council of State do to ensure a more predictable interpretation service in Finnmark and Troms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1120	Auxiliary centre Troms took over the administration and operation of the interpretation area of Finnmark for approx. One year ago. The reason was that it was not possible to get applicants to one of the interpreters at the Finnish Aid Centre. The system that Troms took over has worked well, after I have been informed. I have been informed that the users in Finnmark have as good communication opportunities with Hilbemittelsentral Troms as with Hilbemittelsentral Finnmark in Lakselv. The users in Finnmark have been served mainly by freelance staff. There are five freelances in Troms and two in Finnmark who are operational per year. today. Assistive Technology Center Troms has three fixed interpretation positions. Two of them are on leave, and the third has resigned. Troms and Finnmark are therefore currently without fixed employees interpreting. However, I have been informed by the Employment and Welfare Directorate that the Helpdesk Troms these days are about to recruit two interpreters and an intermediary who, hopefully, can join quickly. Having said that, I would nevertheless point out that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the interpretation area. One problem is that the representative Lyskleätt has travelled, namely that in the more sparsely populated areas, such as Troms and Finnmark, it is difficult to cover unoccupied positions. After completing three years of education in Oslo, Bergen or Trondheim, many interpreters are again in these areas, including: because this is an established interpreting environment. I have entrusted the Directorate of Labour and Welfare with the task of initiating an investigative work in the field of interpreters. By the end of May next year at the latest, the Directorate shall provide a report providing a comprehensive and forward-looking overview of the field of interpretation and communication services with proposals for a comprehensive plan for the further development of the service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1131	I thank you for this answer. Hearing aids provided by the assistance centres include: telecommunications lines and audio transmission systems. This expenditure amounts to more than 100 million. kr per. years. Nevertheless, many of them experience The new elected representatives of the autumn that they cannot participate in local democracy under the same conditions as normal. What will the Council of State do to ensure that more public buildings are fitted with telecommunications lines and audio transmission systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1138	I have to say that on the follow-up issue, we have now received a whole new theme, namely the dissemination of technical aids, which have nothing to do with deaf interpreters. If the representative wants a real answer to what we're doing in that area, I have to ask to get back to it, just to say that I very much agree that these are core tasks for the help centers. If it does not work well enough, there should be justified criticism of it, and then we must address it. I ask for an opportunity to come back with a detailed explanation of where we think we are going, and where we are going in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1143	Follow-up questions shall follow the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1146	I have one last follow-up question: In July 2006, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health was commissioned by the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Health and Welfare to review the tasks of the Hearing Centres and to put forward concrete measures to ensure a good dissemination and follow-up of hearing aids and other hearing aids. The report was issued by the Directorate for Social and Health in August this year. One of the proposals of the Ministry of State Council is to introduce a grant for the purchase of hearing aids and, in practice, to privatise hearing aids in Norway. Is the Council of State prepared to follow up this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1153	It started with the interpreter service – the Council of State can answer the question if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1156	I also wonder about the purpose of this type of question – it is not the spontaneous question time we are in now. Also in this area I ask to check the facts of the case, and then the representative will get an answer. I'm going to take the initiative on my own, so there's no need for any more follow-up. Then the representative will get a proper answer from me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1166	I will address the following questions to the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘For a longer time, the Hospital Østfold has made significant investments in a new district psychiatric centre at the hospital in Halden, and the new offer should now have been opened and put into service. Because the Riksantikvaren in summer suddenly made a temporary bailout decision, the whole project has now stopped. As a result, a new and very important offer to patients in need is postponed indefinitely. What will the Council of State do to prevent patients from being harmed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1175	I find it a pity that the new premises at Halden Hospital can't yet be used, so that one gets the different patient services together. As you know, the Hospital Østfold HF has been working since 2003 to improve the building mass at former Halden Hospital, among others. in order to co-locate the functions below the district psychiatric centre of the population in the Sarpsborg and Halden districts. A county-wide unit for the treatment of eating disorders shall, as is known, also be located here. Health South-East RHF has informed me that the patients at the DPS in Sarpsborg and Halden receive a satisfactory offer in the premises they have had for many years. Patients with eating disorders receive an offer in temporary premises in today's DPS Sarpsborg. In the case of construction bags, it is such that the Halden Hospital building was proposed to be protected in the preliminary health protection plan in January of this year, as the representative is well aware. After a dialogue between the Hospital Østfold HF and the Riksantikvaren in our particular Riksantikvaren this summer to make a formal temporary settlement of the building Halden Hospital. However, the Hospital Østfold HF has appealed the decision to the Ministry of the Environment. I trust that Health South-East RHF will take care of its responsibility independently of the outcome in this matter. I cannot intervene in the environmental protection authorities' handling of a safeguard case. But I allow myself to hope that conservation and treatment interests can be reconciled in this matter, so that patients in Østfold can benefit from the planned offer of not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1186	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is the case in this case that this project has been going on for a longer time. It's invested close to 80 million. NOK, and it is a very long-term and valuable offer that is now really ready to be used. Curtains, furniture and bedspreads are in place. Employees have been given the necessary skills enhancement and are literally just tripping after they start. That's why this is a very boring situation and I guess it really shows that the Riksantik product here came too late. It is the state that owns and operates hospitals, and the Riksantikvar is also a state agency. So my follow-up question is going to be if one state sector doesn't know what the other one is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1195	I can join in all that the representative here says about the importance of getting this in place, and that it has been working for a very long time on this matter. I also share the representative's view that this will be a better offer than what is the situation today. So now the rules, as the representative also knows, are that as long as the matter is in the Ministry of the Environment, which is the Board of Appeal, I cannot intervene. But I repeat what I said in my main response, that I hope that as soon as possible you will find answers to this matter that will allow the treatment interests and conservation interests to be reconciled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1202	Some of the problem here is that the entire project will have to be postponed indefinitely if you do not agree with the complaint. As the Council of State points out, this matter is now under consideration in the Ministry of the Environment. My last question to the Council of State is whether she will, in addition to stating that this is a sin, and that she hopes that the patient treatment will be reconciled with the interests of the Riksantik product, contact her co-worker, the Minister of State for Environmental Protection, to make her understand that very important interests for patients are at stake here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1207	I cannot intervene in the matter, but I am absolutely sure that the Minister for the Environment knows how to get along with what I have said in the Chamber here – and we talk several times a week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1216	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘Research and research show that a number of women who have had an abortion are struggling with anxiety, a large number of them are using strong drugs. Researcher Anne Nordal Broen says that talking to others is more difficult for women who have taken provoking abortion. Many women who take home abortion do this alone and without the knowledge of others. When we know a number of adverse effects for women, will the Council of State decide that medical abortion should only occur in hospitals, and after extensive information and advice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1225	Feedback from regional health firms in 2006 showed that some hospitals have established an offer to selected groups of abortion-seeking women that the abortion could occur at home. Other hospitals want to establish such an offer. I would like to stress that even when this method is used, the treatment is directed by a hospital. The hospital has the medical-professional responsibility and both examines the women before treatment, initiates treatment and follows up the women afterwards. Whatever the method, the same information and advice requirements apply before women make their decision. The fact that hospitals offer selected patient groups to be at home under parts of the treatment — while the drugs work and the abortion takes place — does not deem the ministry to be contrary to the law on abortion § 3. The assumption is that the abortion takes place under the direction of the hospital investigating the patient, that the hospital has the medical professional responsibility for carrying out the abortion, and that there is an assessment of the suitability of the offer for the individual woman. The Ministry of Health and Health has asked the Directorate of Social and Health to make a professional assessment of whether this is a good medical offer for selected groups of women. The professional recommendation and evaluation of the Social and Health Directorate comes before Christmas this year. However, a scientific article has recently been published on the subject in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal, based on a study at Ullevål University Hospital. It showed that 90 of the 105 women who participated in the study and who carried out the abortion at home were very satisfied with the treatment. No serious complications were recorded. I would like to await the assessment of the directorate before I finally decide whether it is appropriate to clarify changes in the law. However, I take it very seriously that many women who have had a provoked abortion are struggling mentally. The study by the representative Davøy refers to shows that women who had chosen to commit an abortion are suffering more from guilt and shame than women who had abortion spontaneously. They also had more anxiety than those who had spontaneously aborted when it had passed over six months. Suffering if the authors can't say with certainty whether the mental distress was due to the abortion, or if they can be attributed to other conditions of these women's life situation, this is a serious finding, and I take it most seriously. However, it has not been demonstrated that women who commit a drug abortion at home are at higher risk of mental distress than women who are undergoing a provoked abortion in hospital. What is certain, however, and as the study shows, is that many women who have had abortions, and also women who have abortions spontaneously, have mental disorders for which they need follow-up. Whatever the cause of these plagues, women are entitled to follow-up from health care. The hospital counselling and guidance for women seeking abortion should include information on possible psychological reactions and information on the auxiliaries, so that women know where to turn to to get help if they get reactions at a later stage. If a woman is considered to be at risk and seafarer wants immediate follow-up, she must be referred to the follow-up of the permanent practitioner or other health professionals in the municipality. If necessary, she must also be referred to as a follow-up to mental health protection. For women who have been referred to hospitals by their permanent staff, it is to be expected that the permanent staff member has an awareness of this issue in their further follow-up to women. It shall be said that women who experience psychological reactions after an abortion shall have the same access to the professional auxiliaries as all others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1240	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am somewhat surprised that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, as it was earlier, wrote on 29 April 1998 a letter to the country's hospital where it was clearly interpreted § 3 of the law on abortion that medical abortion can only be carried out in institutions approved for carrying out abortions, i.e. either hospitals or approved institutions, institutions approved by the county doctor. I am nevertheless pleased that the Council of State says that she herself has not yet taken a final position on this matter, and I believe that we should have a political, a professional and a more public discussion about this. How can one and the same department come to two so different conclusions when it comes to interpreting a law?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1247	I just repeat that the Ministry of Health and Health assesses it so that it does not conflict with the law we have per person. today. But as I said, I'm now awaiting the professional evaluation of the Social and Health Directorate, which is right around the corner, and then we're going to evaluate it afterwards. What is quite clear is that it is the hospital, which has medical responsibility, that has to inform, that has to give advice, that has to get started, that has to follow up and make sure that the woman in question comes to post-control and gets the necessary help and follow-up. Then we're going to have plenty of opportunity to discuss this in full, and I'm ready to join in. What is important here, and I agree with the Davøy representative, is that we have to make sure that the women who are struggling for abortions, whether they are drug problems, mental illness or other things, get the follow-up that is necessary. But again, it's not shown, at least not in the reports and studies we've seen so far, that those who commit the abortion at home have a higher risk of mental distress than those who are in hospitals. Ergo looks like there might be other reasons why there might be reactions, and we have to take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1252	I might wonder a little bit about the answer, that you so easily sweep this away with home abortion, because it's just in such a case that a lot of women are all alone. It may be precisely in such situations that you have the opportunity to be alone, to stay at home alone, because in many cases you may not have dared to take this up with others. It's these women who may be the worst, because they're all alone. We have actually heard that from several, and it is not sustainable that women in such a difficult situation should be left to themselves. I believe that the aftermaths that have gradually emerged from completely new research, we need to take deeply seriously, and I hope that these facts will be considered very carefully when the Council of State will come to its final proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1257	Yes, all the facts will be carefully evaluated, and I'll just repeat that I'm taking the investigations we've seen, in the greatest seriousness. I've already agreed to a meeting with one of the professors behind the study on the relationship to drugs, Willy Pedersen, together with representatives of those who know a lot about mental health, because we have to see this in a broader context. So I guess we'll have plenty of opportunity to discuss whether it's related to home abortion, whether it's the hospital, what's the reason. We're going to have to get back to that. But what is important – and it is important for me to say – is that it is the hospital that is responsible before and after if it happens at home, and they have to assess it on a case-by-case basis. And then I also see that there may be a need to get the decision-makers to follow up even more. That's why I'm going to take the initiative of a meeting with the medical professional association of general practitioners to discuss how one can also strengthen the role of decision-makers in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1268	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The size has granted 604 million. to an exceptional programme to help those who, for various health reasons, are out of work, return to work. Can the Council of State explain how far the Government has come to implement the extraordinary programme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1277	Getting the sick leave down is very important to the Government. It is about helping individuals and using community resources in the best possible way. As we know, together with the social partners, we have a historic promise to get people back to work. Based on St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 4 for 2006-2007 granted 604 million. kr to the scheme for the grant of health and rehabilitation services for sick persons, also called ‘Responders’. This is followed up by both the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Good processing is important because, as we put it, the system must continue, and the funds must be used effectively for that purpose. It has been a challenge for regional health businesses to set up exceptional offers where they have been required not to compete with regular offers and not to overstep normal rights spaces. There has also been a strong focus on establishing good systems to ensure control and traceability. The schemes involve many actors and need to be seen in conjunction with the other measures on the follow-up of sick leave and the amendment of rules from 1 March 2007. Because this year is $142 million. D allocated to the tasks of the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare, and 445 million. kr is allocated to the tasks of regional health establishments. In May, 773 registered persons were referred to various services provided by regional health establishments. At the end of June, 1602 persons were referred to and per person. September 12, 2,460. The State of employment and welfare will need a little longer than the health side to establish its services, including: as a result of the need to carry out procurement processes vis-à-vis operators in line with normal legislation. The Employment and Welfare Act has implemented day-to-day tendering procedures that are now under construction. Daily tender procedures will be completed in October this year. Regional health establishments are increasingly concluding agreements with private operators and agreements on the use of private operators have so far been concluded/planned for some 83 million. kr. These include the purchase of rehabilitation services mainly from private rehabilitation and training institutions. The need-monitoring carried out in the first phase of the scheme shows the greatest need for services for people with complex diseases. Diagnostics and treatment of such conditions are best addressed by establishing their own multidisciplinary outpatient clinics. Regional health businesses have been developing such varied services, and most will start in September and October. For example, Sunnaa’s hospital opened an outpatient clinic on 14 September, which will provide more adapted services for patients with complex and chronic conditions within the muscle/skeletal system and with possible additional psychological spasms. The decision-makers and others who can refer patients were early informed about the scheme. A major national information campaign will be launched this year in October/November. The target groups for the information will be the population, employers and the referees. The scheme is evaluated by Societal and Business Research to deliver the final report in spring 2009. Key aspects of the evaluation are the implementation process, the achievement of objectives, the relationship with the priority regulation, the responsibility of the Special Health Service Act and the socio-economic impact. The government is currently proposing to increase the appropriation by 138 million. kr in its proposal for a government budget for next year. We're suggesting that it be added to a two-stage distribution. That means 138 million. kr is made available for the Employment and Welfare Act and SEK 464 million. kr to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The remaining funds, 140 million. kr, we propose to be distributed later based on experience in the development of the use of the funds and other needs and opportunities. Knowledge from the evaluation launched will be useful here. Together with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, we will have a high focus on monitoring and progress in regional health businesses and in the Employment and Welfare Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1298	I thank the Council of State for a detailed answer. The Council of State itself stated that the label of this exceptional programme is ‘Repare back’. If you remember the history, the controversy about sick leave and sick pay and the agreement between the social partners, you're going to have to pay 604 million. kr be very focused, for one single purpose, namely to bring people back to work faster. Then it may surprise me a little bit that the Council of State is going so far in terms of describing the degree of complication of implementing this program. Will the Council not share my view that it would have been expected that the target would have been speeded up by exploiting the available capacity of private service providers, so that results had been speeded up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1307	I agree with the representative's salary that the whole purpose of this scheme is to get people back to work, and that it must be focused. It also requires that it be a good preparation, without repressing other patients who should also be treated, for example at our hospitals. So far, agreements have been reached to use 83 million. kr for the current year to private providers of the 445 million. kr that the Ministry of Health and Health has been allocated to this scheme. That's a pretty large proportion of the money that we have at our disposal. It's seaworthy because we believe that the private providers have offers that we need, and that, not least, the patients need. So it's deliberate policy on our part that we want to exploit the capacity, not least in many of our private rehabilitation institutions, of which we have many good ones. Some of them have had free capacity, and that's what we're now trying to fill up. We have done this as quickly as we think is proper in relation to the objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1314	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is known that during the last year, the queues of patients waiting for treatment in the specialist healthcare service have increased by 20,000. And it has to be assumed that among these 20,000, there is a not insignificant feature of people who belong to the category in which this program is coined. I see clearly the point of the Council of State that for some of these, there may be complex health disorders that require an organized approach. However, it must also be assumed that for a very large number of them there will be relatively distinct health problems, and there will be a relatively clear treatment he needs. Then the delay element is the lack of capacity of the public system. And then I have to repeat the question: will not the logical conclusion, in the opinion of the Council of State, be that you buy the treatment capacity where it exists, from private actors, because this does not cost other patients waiting in the public health queue? On the contrary, this will lead to further progress of other patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1321	It is correct, as the representative of Wohnning says, that the queues have increased somewhat, but that in itself is not a problem. The fact that we can still treat more diseases means that we also get longer cows. But the waiting time, if one compares to when we took over, has gone down compared to what it was before, and that's what counts for them. For some patients, there are simple operations in which you are back — and they should be done as soon as possible. But what one has discovered so far is that there are actually quite a few who need more complex offers because they have complex diseases. And it'll necessarily take a little longer. But we buy treatment capacity where it exists — in private, as private hospitals and private training institutions, because we believe they are important supplements to public activities. There's nothing, neither ideologically nor anything else, that would tell us not to do it. Therefore, we also spend a lot of money on it – because we realize that they have a lot to do to get away from more of those in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-10.ana.ud1506e1328	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
