ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e64	Three permit applications are available: from the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug on sick leave from 22 February onwards and until further notice from the Central Party Group on the leave of the representative Erling Sande on 22 and 23 February to attend the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Gunvor Eldegard from 3 March to 8 March to attend the equal opportunities conference in Buenos Aires in Argentina On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Gorm KjernliFor Møre and Romsdal County: Gunn Berit GjerdeFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Knut Magnus Olsen3. Gunn Berit Girde is proposed to the House for the time she meets the representative of Leif Helge Kongshaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e106	Knut Magnus Olsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e112	The President will propose the election of three Presidents of the Grand Duchy from Monday 5 March to Friday 9 March – and will consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen, Solvency Horne and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and these are considered unanimously elected presidents of the meetings from 5 to 9. of March. The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e119	I would like to put forward a representative proposal on behalf of Dagrun Eriksen, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and myself on measures to avoid circumvention of the opening time provisions in the Holiday and Holiday Peace Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e124	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e127	It is a pleasure to be able to make proposals on behalf of the representatives of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself on a better counselling service and the use of the work week for high school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e132	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e136	I have the pleasure on behalf of Torbjørn Andersen, Øyvind Korsberg, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself to promote representative proposals to leave the administration of the Motor Travel Act to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e141	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e155	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e164	Today, the Stortinget is invited to decide to continue and extend the Tromsøpak 2 scheme, which is strongly sought by the Tromsø population, local politicians and state politicians, a mechanism for financing many important projects relating to the urban road network. In this round, it is the measures for the soft road users that have been lifted to the top, with a continuous walking and cycling network in Tromsø, as the largest and most important measure. Tromsøpakte 2 means that the tromsøværingen pay 80 cents extra per. litres of fuel, to implement a number of important investments in the road system. The package is partly financed by the Tromsøværingen. The rest is financed by the state, the county and the municipality. Tromsø and the tromsøvringen have a lot left. Corresponding walking and cycling networks may be the most important result. The new package provides for the construction of a number of new pedestrian and cycle road connections, and dangerous crossings and pedestrian crossings are to be rebuilt and secured. Better conditions for public transport are also envisaged and environmental measures are to be implemented in the form of noise abatement. The longitudinal tunnel will also be repaired and completed. Tromsø has a goal of becoming a municipality in Norway in terms of safe and environmentally friendly transport, and the content of the proposed Tromsø package 2 really reflects this objective. Tromsøpack 2 is so far the only local fuel tax scheme in the country. This recovery mechanism has advantages that should make it interesting also for other cities and areas, where it facilitates it. Local fuel tax in Tromsø is an easy way to collect tolls, and it is a very cost-effective system. The collection costs are less than 1 pst. of the gross income of the scheme, against an average of 10 pst. of the revenue generated by toll projects. Another obvious advantage of the Tromsø scheme is that those who run the most in the area in question pay the most. It actually surprises me a little bit that no more cities, or areas, have done as Tromsø, but I know that it has been discussed in many other places. In an evaluation of the Tromsø package made for the State Road Administration, the question is raised: Can similar schemes be used elsewhere? The evaluation report points to simplicity and cost-effectiveness as well as to the opening up of local fuel charges compared to the opening up of tolls as good arguments for assessing such a scheme in cases where local sub-financing is relevant. Whether an area is suitable, still according to the report, can be clarified by examining and comparing such things as population size, distance from other sites, commuting patterns, travel habits and willingness to pay. The report concludes that many cities and agglomerations in the country have characteristics similar to those of Tromsøs. I was aware that the Tromsøwlingen express themselves positively to the arrangement in a polling. In the state road safety survey on local fuel taxes in Tromsø, approx. two thirds of private cars are quite or very positive at the fuel tax, while only one third are quite negative. Also in the asked companies around it is a good break-up about the scheme. The popularity of the scheme has also increased as it has worked. This was a 2003 survey. The Government of Bondevik II halved the period of the Tromsøpakte 2 that the municipality and county municipality wanted, from eight to four years. In addition, environmental and road safety was a priority in the package. With the extension of the government of Stoltenberg II now presenting to Stortinget, Tromsøpak 2 can be implemented on a full scale, as desired locally. We in the Arbeiderparteit, SV and the Zenterpartiet are happy that the government has got the case so quickly until treatment in Stortinget. It gives the municipality of Tromsø and the municipality of Tromsø an early and clear clarification, so that the projects can be planned and implemented in the best possible and most efficient way. I know – and I have been to Tromsø – that there is a good local atmosphere because Tromsøpak 2 is on the rails again. Finally, look to Tromsø!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e192	This is the fourth chapter of the history of fuel trading tax in Tromsø, where the tax is used to pay the road investment bill – the country’s bills. Tromsøpakket 1, adopted by the Stortinget in 1990, was due in 2001, but was extended until 2003. It had to be amended to allow for a local financial contribution on the placing on the market of fuels to ‘part-financing road construction’. Then there was an extension – Tromsøpakt 2 – with a collection for eight new years, which is now being extended by a further four years, a total of 24 years. The progress party is still opposed to the specific fuel tax scheme in Tromsø in order to have those of the citizens who fill fuel in Tromsø pay for their duties as roadkeepers. The Progress Party considers the continued collection of tolls through fuel charging to be both unreasonable and a new municipal charge, which should cover the municipality's own priority actions in areas other than the construction of public roads. In the revised action plan for the extension of Tromsøpack 2 only 31 pst. road investment. Section 27 A of the Road Law states: «The means of access can only be used to finance the construction of public roads.» The Department considers that the road concept is interpreted very widely and also indicates that the profile of the package has changed. Our view is that the profile of the programme violates the road law's requirements for the use of such funds. We have noticed that the government parties refer to our assessment of this relationship in the setting, and I quote: ‘This plurality underlines that there is no record in the Progress Party of breaches of the Road Law, and takes a strong distance from the claim. This plurality suggests that it is very undocumented to present such undocumented claims in a committee setting.’ A bit of an ointment! The party to the progress disagrees with the government parties in this matter, but does not call the position, arguments or documentation of others «unusual», nor do we take «strong distance». But we disagree. We believe in the proposition itself to document the breach by stating that the contribution from the petrol tax ‘in all respects’ is to be used for – and then it becomes a reminder – among other things. ‘bike main road network’. It is contrary to the proposition that otherwise environmental and road safety measures should be financed by the municipality of Tromsø and that collective actions should be financed by the municipality of Troms County. The Progress Party will implement the road investment in Tromsøpakt 2 with State full funding. Tromsø has a strong growing need for better communication between Kværøya and Tromsøya. The Progress Party believes that a particular responsibility must be assumed by the State to facilitate the development of efficient road installations in the major cities. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the Government should ensure that the planning of a new main link between Kværøya and Tromsøya is forced and based on state full funding. The use of tolls for the financing of state road construction has increased sharply during this government. The Progress Party believes that it is the State that has to pay for the construction of tribal roads and other national roads. The majority, who were involved in the treatment of the national transport plan 2006-2015 for the use of tolls – all lots except the Advance Party – had two main principles: utility principle and recovery. Several of the toll-funded projects adopted by the Stortinget during this period violate these principles. The share of tolls in projects is also increasing. In the construction of the E18 Langåker-Bommestad in Westfold, the toll percentage has been set at 100 pst for the first time. Tolls are no longer ‘contribution’ or ‘sub-financing’. Under this government, a substantial and strongly increasing source of funding has become for the country. We believe that toll financing is 'encouraged' by the Government, and that the signals given are clear: without tolls no way! The Progress Party believes this is a form of political extortion that leads to a use of toll financing that is almost out of control. Toll usage regulations, which Stortinget has long asked to be developed, are still not available. This is one of the reasons why the Progress Party wants an evaluation of the use of tolls for the financing of the tribal and national road network, as well as for assessing alternative funding in the same context. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter. There are three proposals. Proposal No. 1 should be an alternative to the setting. Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 I hope we can vote over separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e231	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e234	In Norway, we have been engaged in user-funded road construction since the 1950s. And in all modesty: it was in Bergen it started! The principle that the benefits of the project would come to those who paid it all, for the benefit of it, has been central. Therefore, there was something new and especially when the Stortinget went in in 1990 to partly finance the main road development in Tromsø, Tromsøpakket 1, with a local fuel tax, or the ‘50-earth’ under which it was marketed. Plus 50 øre for each litre of fuel in a geographically defined area was possible because the distance to the nearest petrol pump without a stroke was more than six miles. The recovery, which was due to end in 2001, was, as is known, extended in 2003 due to a loss of income. The 50th ear had gradually become 65 cents. However, the scheme gave merflavor, and at the end of the period, Tromsøpakt 2 was launched, with new eight years. In government treatment and population growth, the period was halved to four years and targeted at an exceptional effort on roadside measures. Among other things, it was clarified that the Langnes tunnel and the pedestrian and cycle path at Sandnessundbrua had to be included in the package. The main reason for the halving was that the scheme was not wanted to be seen as a new municipal fee to solve road network tasks. The Bondevik II government assessed this in such a way that a four-year recovery period would be sufficient to ensure an exceptional investment in road measures in Tromsø within the framework of Tromsøpack 2. In the case we are dealing with today, this is assessed differently. An increasing number of projects have been included in the funding base and the recovery period has been extended to eight years. We like that in the right-hand bad. We're not excited about extending the scheme for four years, a scheme that was supposed to be extraordinary in the first place. The collection of this extra fuel tax of 80 cents is thus more and more characterised by a fixed local area tax, or a transport tax, if you like. We are also aware that the Government interprets section 27 A of the Road Law in the direction of imposing fewer restrictions on what can be financed by the fuel charge than the cooperative government did, which was based on the 1990 amendment of the law. We believe this is completely on the edge of the law and hope that the Council of State will justify why she sees this differently. In any case, we assume that the division of responsibilities is followed by the Ministry and the National Audit Office, so that we can be sure that the fuel charge does not finance any part of the package other than what is mentioned in the proposal. It is wrong when the majority argues that administrative costs make this system particularly favourable. Administrative costs are quite similar in all toll projects. The collection costs themselves are favourable in this project. However, we are sceptical that this low cost is real, and in addition, the danger of developing this at a purely fiscal charge is great. The utility principle underpinning all other user funding is highly questionable in this scheme in relation to an ordinary toll project. This article may be considered negative in relation to the case. But we think it is positive that important tasks are being solved in the road sector in Tromsø. In fact, we are sceptical about the method of funding, but in the Right, it is impressive that the local population takes on and wants this extra burden. That is why we are going to support the proposal for a decision here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e249	For many years, Tromsø SV has 'lobba' towards SV centrally to increase progress in this matter, because they probably want this package in depth. I understand now at the Halleraker post that some of the plugs when the tempo was set down had just sat in the right when they were in government, because they were not quite able to decide what kind of foot they should be on in this case. Still, they end up having the government come to a reasonable conclusion, so it's probably not easy for the Right to figure out what they mean in this case, I understand. What's important here is that we have a population requirement here that this is what we want, so that we end up with what the people want. So we actually meet the soft traffic lights today. We make sure that there is increased road safety, we make sure that there is noise reduction, we suggest that there is better organisation for public transport. These items must be much more focused on the future, and they will be. I think we have to look at the road traffic laws in that image, and we have to make adjustments to it, as there are so many doubts about what is happening here today. For SV this is a good package. It also has as principle at the bottom that the one who has the most in the world pays the most, and it's very important to bring with it. I could think – and hope – that Tromsø, who is going to meet important times in the future in connection with the OL request, now also before working to achieve even better collective solutions than what they propose, ensures that moving both freight and passenger traffic away from the existing solutions and across the bus, in order to strengthen collective provision and thus also contribute to what is absolutely necessary in these days, reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Focus must not be forgotten when talking about road development, as some parties do. Mobilising increased car traffic means increasing greenhouse gas emissions. The party of progress is, of course, against this. They're against tolls in general, and of course they're against this, where not everything you pay goes to the car. Because it seems to me that the most important thing for the Progress Party is to get the most possible cars on the roads, so that a bet is the most possible on the car driver and does not think about road safety, noise protection and the things that result from increased traffic. Then it's very strange, I think, to look at the Progress Party's behaviour when they can really exercise power, what results they come up with. I have to say that I would have been ashamed if I were in a party that flags the road as high as they do, and shouts at all these billions all the way, and then, when they come into position and negotiate results, it's as far as you can find those results. So in three years, one's going to be worth 1 million. kr on maintenance. Not to mention that one has given priority to the negotiations, when one looks at the bad results. Then you must have little confidence in the game when negotiating. If not, tell me your clear language. Finally, SV is not really that much for OL. But if I were to choose, I would have chosen Tromsø – that's clear. I have many challenges in relation to it. Among other things, it is a problem for me – and also in SV – that Tromsø does not have a railway. So I hope when one is working towards 2018, that one also looks at the possibility of facilitating railway solutions towards Tromsø, so that one can not just go to pub to get on the railroad in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e264	The Christian People's Party supports the extension of Tromsøpakte 2 and the continuation of the current collection system in July 2012. The Christian People's Party supports this because it enables increased efforts to improve the environment and road safety and the completion of the highest priority projects in Tromsøpakt 2. Moreover, this is something that Tromsø's people want to continue. The scheme has strong local anchoring and support. This case, as many have come up with, has a past. Tromsøpakt 1 was adopted in 1990, and at the end of the Tromsøpakt 1 period, Tromsø kommune and Tromskommune proposed to extend the scheme. The proposed Tromsøpack 2 was halved during treatment in the department and in Stortinget. As stated in the proposal, it was mainly based on estimates that the scheme was initially a testing scheme – one that did not want the scheme to be seen as a new municipal tax. The Christian People's Party still does not want that. We believe it is important that the fuel tax represents a commitment to concrete measures, and not just a general municipal fee to solve ordinary road network tasks. Thus, half of the solution was adopted by the Stortinget in 2004. When the municipality of Tromsø and the municipality of Tromsø, in cooperation with Vegvesenet, have now drawn up a proposal for a new, extended Tromsøpakte 2, the proposed proposition states that the background for this is changed assumptions. The long-distance tunnel has become more expensive than intended and thus the focus on other measures in the package has been weakened. Furthermore, the increase in costs for the Langnes Tunnel means that several of the measures contained in the package cannot be implemented during the four-year period. Consequently, the proposed environmental and road safety investment is significantly impaired. An extended recovery mechanism will allow for a stronger focus on these measures in the package. So we're giving our support to enlargement. But here I would like to take a little walk into the rapporteur, who makes a great point of having the major environmental and road safety measures implemented. I want to refer to what the proposition says about what was in the original Tromsøpack 2: ‘Transport security, walking and cycling, public transport, environment and road investment. This principle has been passed on in an extended Tromsøpack 2.’» The main reason why we are now involved in extending this package is the increase in costs, which means that the measures originally included in the package are not included. Tromsø is a special city in many ways. First of all, it's the geographic location that creates the peculiarity. And precisely the geography around Tromsø makes this system suitable. With regard to the question of interpretation of Section 27A of the Road Act – which has created a little debate and led to some comments – we have confidence that the Ministry’s interpretation of the law is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e284	For us in the Center Party, this case is an interesting example of local initiative to think of well-being in connection with large road projects. It is gratifying that most of the population's upsurge is so great when it comes to contributing to the implementation of the highest priority projects in Tromsøpakt 2. The largest opposition party claimed to be involved is interpreted too far from the department. I don't intend to get involved in any paragraph discussion, but I would like to remind you that the outline ‘road’ – which is the original name of our country – occurred long before the city appeared. Thus, the development of pedestrian and bicycle road networks should be as natural in a road project as the development of the road on which the cars are running. It is important to ensure that more people can move in health-promoting and safe ways. The centre party therefore supports this setting and hopes that other agglomerations and cities will consider similar solutions in future road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e293	A lot has been said in this case, and I will therefore be quite brief. Taking care of the interests of local democracy is the main concern of the Left in this matter. It's not like all people, all cities or all communities are equal. This is the relationship we have to take into account. The initiative of local authorities to finance Tromsøpakt 2, which we are examining today, is therefore positive and deserves the support of the central authorities. The left will emphasise the need to provide room for flexible and good solutions locally rather than driving principles or rules to the extreme. The scheme with an application of the fuel charge through Tromsøpacket 2 is an example of a good solution in several areas. The reason is that the municipality is very large, and there are little other cities or agglomerations nearby. This helps to reduce the leakage of this charge to and from surrounding municipalities, cities or agglomerations. The left considers that it is also positive that the polluter-pays principle underlies this part of the funding of Tromsøpak 2. It is also positive that the administrative costs of this type of collection are lower than those of toll collection. Tromsø Municipality now wants to expand Tromsøpacket 2 to 8 years. The reason is, among other things, that the tunnel has become more expensive than intended and that action such as the environment and road safety should be strengthened, as explained by the rapporteur. This seems to be very important to the Left and thereby gives it its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e304	The system of local fuel charges in the municipality of Tromsø is being developed as a success in several respects. This user financing has been given its own home in the Road Law Section 27 A and provides the basis for the so-called Tromsøpack 2, where the different levels of administration split on an improved transport system in the city. Now, both municipal and county politicians have decided to extend for a new four-year period and have asked the government and the government to do the same. It is not at least the strong local deal and the willingness to contribute to the Government's recommendation to approve the project. The funding facility is based on the original proposal for eight years from 2003, which was reduced to half when the Bondevik II government dealt with the application. The financial contribution will be continued at the level of the day, i.e. Eighty cents per cent. litres of fuel at 2006 price level. This may sound small, but with particularly low collection costs – around 1 pst. of the revenues – and thank you for your geographical preferences – the scheme is an effective source of income, giving about 20 million. kr annually. The package is five on measures in five different areas of activity on the road network in Tromsø: in addition to the clean road infrastructure section of the Langnes tunnel, the measures concern road safety, walking and cycling, public transport and the environment. The cost of the Langnes tunnel has so far taken most of the funds in Tromsøpakt 2. The extension of the recovery period allows for a stronger focus on environmental, road safety and public transport measures. This is in line with local policy priorities and with the Soria Moria Declaration’s objective that public transport must be a real alternative to the use of private cars in urban and urban areas. I am pleased that the attitude of the Committee on Transport and Communications in this matter is positive and corresponds to the proposition. At the same time, I have noticed that a minority in the Committee have asked questions about the use of the funds from the fuel tax in relation to road laws. I would like to briefly comment on this and, in this context, remind you of the conclusions of Stortinget's handling of the first Tromsø package, referred to in the Proposition, St.prp. No Thirty-three. The most important thing first: the funding for the construction of public roads can and should be used. In the preliminary work on road law § 27 A, Ot.prp. No 4 for 1989-1990, it was shown that the funding will be provided as a complement to government promises and used for the development of the main road network in Tromsø. The Ministry of Transport assumes that this could be a major road network for cars, bicycles or public transport, including road transport. St. Prop. No 7 for 1989-1990 and St. Prp. No 62 for 2003-2004. Measures that do not meet this requirement must be financed by other means. I share the opinions of the majority in the Committee, which suggests that there should be no difference in the amount of revenue from tolls and petrol charges. As there is no initiative from Tromsø to change the rules that apply today, and there is not now room for such a charge to be created elsewhere in the country, I will consider this in connection with other revisions of the legislation of the Road Law. On behalf of the Government, I would like to suggest that the Storting agrees to extend the scheme of local funding on fuel sales in Tromsø by four years, i.e. until 31 July 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e327	We think this is just an extension of the toll collection, as a new way of charging tolls. We often find that there are no regulations for this, that there are some Ville West states at present, in the form that there are many different rules, and that municipalities and counties only send in new proposals for extended toll collection when one cannot handle the collection within the current legislation. My question to the Council of State is: Will new regulations and rules soon come up that say how to deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e334	First, I strongly reject that there are Ville West states in this area. As in all other areas of transportation, it is the order and system – also on the toll collection. But it is right, as the representative says, that the Stortinget has requested a review of the toll collection legislation. That's what I've told you in the past that the Storting is going to get, and we're going to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e341	Hallgeir Langeland thought this had to be a difficult matter for us in the Right. Yes, it's a difficult thing, but it's because the government is making the limits of what we can accept, not because we don't think the measures are positive. The local will, as you know, has guided our decision here. The documents say: ‘The Ministry of Transport will stress that the financing of an extended Tromsø package 2 shall be in accordance with the principles underlying ordinary toll packages. This means that the level of management shall finance actions within its own area of responsibility and that the fuel charge can only finance actions covered by the Road Law § 27a.’» That was exactly what the Council of State told us. My question is, how will the Council and the Ministry follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e355	We have received an application from Tromsø regarding Tromsøpakt 2. That application is processed, approved and submitted to the Stortinget. I expect what's in Tromsøpack 2, to be followed up. The Road Administration, which of course is an active party in the implementation of this, also has a responsibility to ensure that the implementation is carried out in accordance with the leadership established.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e360	I have two questions. Now the Council of State replied to the representative Hoksrud that the Council of State has answered many times before in the Storting, that there will be regulations. It has been a long time since the Stortinget asked for toll regulations. We link it to the two clear conditions that the Storting’s broad majority – the toll enthusiasts – have associated with the use of tolls, namely the afterpayment and the concept of utility. It's important that we get regulations in place, and then regulations that are being complied with. I hope I can now get a more precise answer on when Stortinget gets instructions on the use of tolls – otherwise an obscurity, in our view. Question no. 2: With this extension of Tromsøpack 2, the toll period for the inhabitants of Tromsø – fuel tax is a form of toll – will be 24 years. The Council of State considers it reasonable that the citizens of Tromsø will have to pay extra for 24 years in order to have a decent road network, where highways are included.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e367	When it comes to toll regulations, we have per today more things in ESA. We have several directives to be interpreted and implemented in Norwegian legislation. Not at least the last person who has done this is having a little bit of a doctor waiting. Because when we now come forward with a code, it should be up-to-date. I can't give a date for it to come, but it's coming to Stortinget. So the representative gets to lubricate himself with patience. If I find it reasonable that Tromsø's population will pay the extra tax for 24 years, it is irrelevant. What's important is that a local in Tromsø and in the county is so cohesive in their desire to continue this package, and that one sees the benefits of him. I belong to a party that thinks that a local knows best what happens locally, and I listen to the local authorities in this and other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e374	The Christian People's Party supports what has been presented by the Government here. But when I read the proposition a little bit more thoroughly, it surprises me that during these years in Tromsø, you haven't figured out which projects are going to be included. What happens now is you expand the package to what it was originally. There must be some ideas about the projects to be implemented. It's clear from the proposition that it's not clear at the moment, but that you're going to get on the track with it. My question is, when it's so uncertain which projects to enter – the Langnes tunnel is okay, but the other thing is little about – can we expect to be asked about a Tromsø package 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e381	I think I have to give the same answer here as for the previous questioner. Tromsøpakt 1 and Tromsøpakt 2 were locally initiated and put forward. If a city council member in Tromsø and Troms County will find it likely to seek an additional extension, the council has no idea. That conversation may be taken locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e386	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e391	Thursday 22 February is a day of joy both for those in the Tromsø area and for those who want to give priority to environmentally friendly road development with a strong focus on pedestrian and cyclist roads, road safety, public transport and other environmental measures. The travel envelope is now more than double, from 150 million. NOK 366 million. kr. Almost all increases are made to walking and cycling roads, the environment, public transport and road safety. I'm going to spend a quarter of a billion dollars on this. The Langnes Tunnel road project, which will soon be completed, will increase traffic promotion and also have important environmental impacts. In sum, this is a good project. In addition, I just want to join what the representative from Langeland said in his post. If I am allowed to be a little personal: I have been working as an alternate since 23 May last year, but in the first days of March I will go home and continue as a small user and municipal and state policy. That's why my last post I'm now holding from this pulpit. I just have to say that it's been a great teaching and exciting time. I have experienced more in nine months than I have experienced in many years. They say good grown men can't learn anything new. It has proved at least the strongest in these months. I also hope that as many of us as possible can travel to Tromsø and see what we have got through Tromsøpakt 1 and Tromsøpakt 2 in terms of a good environmental project. I also hope that as many of us as possible can meet in Tromsø in 11 years to experience the countryside and some wonderful winter days along with the world's sports youth. Some of us want different roles those days than what we have today. We're going to be 11 years older, but we're going to organize for everyone, even for those who unfortunately have to use the scooter to get between the sports stadiums and the cultural events in Tromsø. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e407	This is a brand day for the municipality of Tromsø. After many years of fighting, we finally continue Tromsøpakt 2, which means that kids in kindergartens, schoolchildren, cyclists and the many who are moving on foot in Tromsø, will now get a much better and safer traffic offer. Once again, the red-green government shows that we keep what we promise. We focus on the environment, we focus on road safety. I was a member of the Tromsø municipal government when, in the autumn of 2003, it struck down as a bomb at the town hall that the then government, at the Minister of Transport Skogsholm from the Left, with a pennestrøk completed the arrangement with Tromsøpak 2 completely. The country's most effective collection system, with administrative costs of less than 1 pst, was therefore given on the boat. Later we were given the most grace to hold on for four years, but with the pen held – the Langnes Tunnel was to be taken first. Tromsøpakt 2, which this time was to focus on the soft traffic lights, was therefore turned to a heavy-duty package of dimensions. This stop must first and foremost take the environmental party's primary responsibility, but it was a collective government, including the Right and Christian People's Party, that was behind it. It has been a completely unnecessary effort to get the package back. I have to say that it is a little strange to listen to representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party who in the debate today focus on the local uprising and local democracy in Tromsø. Why didn't this matter? Why did not the view of the local party of the Left and Christian did not mean anything when they cut the system for four years? Now Tromsøpakt 2 has been extended by the four years required, and we ensure that important road safety measures will be implemented. The most dangerous routes around kindergartens are now in the process of being repaired, and a greater expansion of pavement, walking and cycling paths is about to begin. Now the government is delivering. For all of us who live in Tromsø, who have kids there, who are happy in the city, this is a good day. In addition, we also provide an even better basis for Tromsø-OL in 2018, where the environment is going to be in the high seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e422	When you listen to the debate, including the last post, from the representative Bjørnflaten, you would think that it was a be or not: if you do not decide to continue this fee in Tromsø, there will be no infrastructure. To me, it is direct extortion towards local and regional politicians. All in this room are trailers of these measures located in Tromsøpakt 2. What is the difference is that some parties want to finance them through the one who is responsible for funding them, namely the state. It's about state roads. Then it's a little strange to listen to the representatives who come from the red-green government, who say that here the government delivers. The government doesn't deliver anything. It's a fee. It's the drivers, the inhabitants of Tromsø, who have to pay. The government doesn't deliver anything. It's very easy to say that you deliver when you thin the car lists for even more money, and then build. So I think it's a little strange when the Council of State almost says she doesn't care, because this is a local initiative. The principle of tolls gets twisted up here. In general, those who are toll trailers have at least a principle that they should be paid in advance. Here you go to the advance payment. The second major concern is the priorities of the national transport plan, which are also distorted. That should be the government's concern, not least the Council of State. The third is that these are state roads. It is the state, the government and the magnificence that are responsible for them. That being said, I find the principle of Tromsøpakt 2 very positive. If we could stand here today and discuss this principle for the whole country, namely that the polluter should pay, that we would have put all the charges on the fuel, if any, to all those who drive cars in Norway, and earmarked these charges to build infrastructure, then it would have been a completely different matter. I think that would have been an interesting discussion, because then it would have been right as the representative of Langeland said: then there had been a polluter who pays, based on how much you load the road network, and how much you pollute and release, but that's not what we're discussing here. We are discussing whether to impose an additional charge on part of the population of Norway. It would have been interesting to discuss the introduction of that principle for the whole country. Then we could have come up with something. Then it is that good solutions for the environment are linked to the discussion about renewing our car park and getting good roads. We have the world's most environmentally hostile roads, and we have the world's most environmentally hostile cars. I want more focus on it too, which is totally absent from this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e441	As the Council of State said, this was a local initiative from the municipality of Tromsø and the county of Tromsø. I actually thought it was a very sensible initiative. There must be sensible people up there. Whoever's best to arrange the Olympics, as Langeland was inside, I won't be speaking about. There's a lot of other good seekers, and it's not sure that that's all that the red-green alliance shares. I thought we should leave it up to the Norwegian Sports Association to look at who is most qualified in this way. I said it was a sensible initiative. People up there are probably pragmatic, and they're supposed to be happy that there's also a multiple on the Storting that wants to get something done, that wants to get solutions. Here I'm marking a clear distinction between the Advance Party and the other parties. Yes, it's true that Halleraker himself said that he had a very negative post, but he's at least so pragmatic that he'll try to get something for the inhabitants of Tromsø, and says that this is a solution that opens up for it. It is clear that if a question is asked whether they want to pay taxes, or if they want to pay tolls, the answer is near-no, roughly as they answer in Tønsberg, where they have a Progress Party spokesman. What they meant was exactly what Per Sandberg was in there, that they would get through Tønsberg anyway. The result is that they're sitting there and they don't have any solution. That's what would have been the problem if the Progress Party had had a multiple here, that then had a seat without solution. However, it turns out that the Progress Party is also being forced to participate in finding solutions. In Oslo, for example. opens the Progress Party to participate in toll financing, user financing, precisely because the option is not available. Just that we're going to implement what's in the Norwegian Transport Plan action plan would have cost the state 21 billion extra if we hadn't had the toll financing. I am right to say that we had never done anything to achieve and have implemented the projects that are there. I think the people of Troms should be happy that there's a huge majority trying to find solutions. Then it is claimed – and it was an insult – that we have a little hard on the comment of the Progress Party, but when the Progress Party makes clear claims that there is a breach of the profile in the road laws, and that it is almost a toll collection without control, then it is clear that we have to respond to it a little in the same tone. Here we are on a safe ground when it comes to interpreting road laws. I am absolutely sure that the department has at least the same ability to interpret what opportunities lie in road laws as the Progress Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e454	Just cards to the representative Bjørnflaten. If the representative had followed a little better in Jan Sahl's posts, she would have been able to save some of her posts. The left is pleased with the local initiative to continue the examination procedure, so we also support it centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e463	As we have also seen in this debate the clean and ranked ones in the Progress Party who are against tolls, a small comment is echoed. I will meet with Peter N. Myhre on Oslopackak 3. I have a problem here to see differences between Oslo and Tromsø. In Oslo, a local, with the Progress Party in the driver’s seat, wants to be tolled – they even want to redefine the law so that we can also use it for collective operations. In Tromsø it is to have collective thinking and walking and cycling paths clearly fi, fi. As I said, I can't help but see that in Tromsø, the Progress Party has no decisive influence, but it has one in Oslo. It is said that the God who gives an office also gives understanding. I'll rewrite it as the one that God gives responsibility, he also gives understanding. Because where the Progress Party is given responsibility, they go from being against tolls to being for tolls. Where they're in a minority and they can't affect the result, they're clean and they're against it. And what did the Progress Party do to secure funds when they had power in the previous period? It was little and nothing. It was more important to charge caravans and their counterparts in the budget agreement. Ergo would they never be built. I mean, it's right to point out to people who borrow ear to the Progress Party's rhetoric about tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e472	It is clear that the government representative here has a great need to try to distance the debate from what this really is about. I want to start with the Council of State's previous posts, where she says that the Progress Party in Oslo supports toll collection. That's wrong. The Oslo Progress Party voted on the urban governance against introducing that system, but it is governed by a majority. You have to deal with the majority of the city council and follow it up in a minority bureau. I heard the representative of Bjørnflaten and the representative of Rudihagen say today – and I have also read the press release from the Minister of Transport on this with funding – that responsibility is being taken for the roads in this country. I think it is reasonable to say in particular that this government takes responsibility, when the drivers have to pay 100 pst., e.g. as for E18 Larvik–Sandefjord in Westfold. They say we clean up, we do something, and we do it, but it's the drivers that carry it out. It's the drivers who pay the entire bill, not this government. This government claims to take historic promise, but these historic promises are that it demands more toll than it uses state funds for highway investment. I therefore think that in this debate we should say that the drivers are the ones who make sure that part of these grips can be taken. That's the way it is with Tromsøpack 2. It's the drivers who have to pay for all the fun. This government is trying to make it look like it's the government that's taking hold, but it's the drivers that do it. It's the drivers who take the entire bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e481	It is often the case that when someone hits their toes, my political toes cause high political pain. That's the reflection after listening to some articles here. First to the Council of State: In the period 2001–2005, it was probably the case that the Centre Party was getting rather little on its way. It is probably also the case that the Progress Party got about the same and perhaps a little bit more than what the Workers' Party got, when they had a budget agreement with the previous government, which was a minority government. If you're going to brag about something, at least you're going to have to be pretty right. When I hear the representative Rudihagen: what is the alternative to tolls? It's made like nothing. Of course, it's completely wrong. However, it is not surprising that it comes from a representative from the Workers' Party, and not least from the representative Rudihagen, who has had project funding as his main business both before the election campaign, in the election campaign and after the election campaign in 2005, i.e. project financing as an alternative to a public/private labour market in the construction of roads. The solution that was put on the market by the Workers’ Party – and by the representative Rudihagen – as the major option, which was to give road construction in Norway a boost, has been strongly denounced by the Government and, not least, by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. There are, of course, alternatives. First of all, we have to look around. We have Nordic neighbours who actually manage to build a good road network – without having oil wealth ‘toil with’, without affecting the inhabitants with all kinds of extra charges and, above all, without tolls. So that's an alternative. The main option has many variants. First of all, we must start treating road construction as an investment. The government doubts that road construction should be seen within the framework of one-year budgets, that investment should be treated in roads that last 50 years as if it were expenditure we eat over 12 months. It's turning things completely upside down. One of the approaches to speeding up road construction in Norway — without going into the pockets of the population by increasing tolls — is to start treating investment in the road network as it is, namely investment. The government’s historic upswing in the road sector is so far a historically strong increase in toll financing. So you send the bill to others – and take credit for the effect. It's to settle the bill without a host – and put it back on top of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e500	The reason why I had to ask for the floor was actually the frailty of the Council of State. When the members of the government from the Great Government directly accuse the opposition of being stupid, then I react. We'd like to have a discussion about history, but the Central Party has been in government alternately for several years. Still the situation is so that only 5 pst. of our tribal roads are of acceptable standard. The centre party has a substantial part of the responsibility here. The number of people in traffic on Norwegian roads continues to be between 200 and 300 every year because the road standard is so poor. The central party, which has alternately been in government – and has had the Councils of State of Transport – has a substantial part of this responsibility. And then the Central Party Council allows itself to stand still on the pulpit in Stortinget today and call the opposition stupid! We take the responsibility laid down in Norwegian law, namely that the state should finance the infrastructure of this country, while the Senterpartiet flies faster and faster away from this responsibility – and from what it has promised in its programme declarations to the voters. I think the Council of State should stick too well to this. She should almost regret these accusations against the opposition. You cannot attack the biggest opposition party in Storting and consider it less gifted because it relates to Norwegian law and to the promises it gave to the voters when it was election campaign. Fortunately, it is – and I fully trust it – that it is the voters in elections, both in 2007 and 2009, who will decide who has the best understanding. I am absolutely sure – even though both the Council of State and the other representatives of the Government repeatedly point out, and only have the sole argument that this is a local initiative – that it will appear in 2007 and 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e513	First of all, to the last speaker: Sorry! If I have said that the opposition is stupid, I will withdraw all of that. I didn't say that – I tried with a little humorous rewriting of a quote and thought it could be taken against in a humorous way. I don't understand how I went. If it was taken very seriously, I would say, of course, that in the Progress Party they are not stupid at all – they are very clever. When I – rightly – say that we have done a historic lift, we actually have it. We comply with the national transport plan. It hasn't happened before. We have increased the rights to transport – to operation, to maintenance and to investment – in a way that no other government has done before us. And we actually have to be proud of that. The previous government put its mercy on the Progress Party. Ergo had a completely different power in the Progress Party. And it also showed up: in the comparisons that the Progress Party had with the government in the previous period, it moved in billions of dollars. It should only be missing - it is the gain you get when you sit in a decisive position and can determine whether the government will continue or not. And that's right – when we hear how high the cigarette drive is in the debate – to look at how many of the billions that came into the road construction. I mean, it's real. Selectors are not stupid either, so the Progress Party or the selectors are stupid. Then it's important that they get the right information. It is important that the voters see what the different parties do when they are in a position to do something, and what they do when they are in a position where they are not affected. That's what I tried to prove in my previous post. Both I and many with me have a great responsibility to inform the voters about it, so that the debate not only becomes noise, but a fact-finding debate about what the different parties do in different positions. Yes, the Minister of Transport is from the Central Party. We run teams with the SV and the Workers' Party. We are three parties that, through the Soria-Moria declaration, have committed us to a lift that – whether one likes it or not – is actually historic. And we commit. There were a lot of people who, before last year's budget, didn't want it to happen, but it did. Then I think we must have the right to say that we deliver what we have promised. Yes, we follow up a lot of local requests for tolls, but the option would be, if we looked back a little bit, that the money would never have gone on the track. I think that when everything comes to everything, those who are going to run along our roads will be happy that the road is being built, even if they have to pay tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e530	The Oslo Progress Party and Peter N. Myhre stand by respect. They've seen the possibility in Oslopackakt3 to solve the traffic problems that we're struggling with. I think they have been upright and have seen the possibilities of toll financing. As for Per Sandberg and the Progress Party, it really doesn't surprise me that they have solutions for the most part. I think it's rather strange – if you go back in time, until the years they were a supporting party for the Bondevik II government – that they couldn't do anything when it comes to transportation. It went one way: it went down and home. It was not possible to fulfil the obligations in relation to the national transport plan. This government has, of course, started this. I really think you should be so sober that you take it in and admit it goes forward, because it actually does. The numbers don't lie. The local economy went down, and the transport sector went down – two major areas of activity that this government has taken on board. In my own county, Nordland, you got a plus of $44 million. kr at the municipal settlement. Measures have been put in place to do something about the county roads. I think at least you should admit this and say it goes forward. Of course, you can discuss this and say that it is not enough – because yes, it is formidable challenges we have. Then there's one more thing that I think is nice. When the Progress Party says that they are the party most to people, why is it that you go against the local initiatives that are coming? People are concerned with good solutions. People have been busy with Tromsøpack 2. As I said in my previous post, I was in Tromsø and got feedback that these were good solutions – one could at least look ahead and get a better collective offer, and not least get a better offer for soft road users. It's positive that it happens. Then I think it is nice that the Progress Party almost hassles with the arrangements – and solutions – that this government has set in motion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e541	This case started with trying to find a reasonable solution, as I said in a previous article, for the people of Troms – to solve the traffic challenges and transport challenges they have in that area. Luckily, there's a number on Stortinget joining us. The Progress Party has taken advantage of this opportunity to make this a more general toll debate – that's okay, that's enough – and there's also a debate on road betting. Since Per Sandberg once again takes up the number of fatalities in road traffic, and almost indicates that the majority here is responsible for what has happened, I have to try to nuance this a little. For the number of road traffic fatalities now, half of the number of deaths in 1970 is despite the fact that road traffic is three-four times higher. It shows that the many measures taken through both the State Road Service, the police, the Safety Traffic, training organisations and others have produced results. At the same time, I agree that better roads will lead to greater security. What's a little strange is that the Progress Party, when they had the chance, the possibility, didn't do anything else in this area. Looking at the last three budgetary differences that the Progress Party had with the Bondevik government, a total of only increased by between 300 and 400 million. kr for transport purposes. The last budget they adopted together with the Bondevik Government in 2005 was about Five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five. SEK for road investment. Once again, until 1991, Kjell Opseth provided a transport budget of between 7 and 8 billion kroner for road investment – just to compare what the Progress Party has done. So when it comes to road safety, it should not be a leap party. They should be a little bit more audacious. After all, they have, many times, been raised for higher speed limits, they are against dot stress, and they have a liberal drug policy, which, perhaps in the next round, can also lead to more traffic accidents. Now they said clearly that they were opposed to average speed measurement. At least this does not help to increase road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e553	I'm not going to put myself in the polemics between the government parties and the Progress Party. The progress party is doing well to defend itself, but I want to participate a bit in the history description. A historical bet, it's said from the red-green ones. Yeah, that's an increase. The increase in crowns of the state budget, from the revised budget to the state budget for the year we are in, is 167 million. kr. So the rest of the big bet is the users who pay. I think you should be sober enough to say that. So there is a formidable effort on the way under this government – which is user-funded. And everyone in the committee knows that for most projects, we're talking about 80-90 pst. user funding, for some projects even higher. So you say that NTP is met. I think it was the representative Stroem who swung pretty loud on that theme. No, it's not. It has been met this year, for the year 2007, but there are still 600 million missing. NOK 1 billion on the road. And then we'll see how it gets covered in the future. It's going to be exciting to see. Of course, the government has the possibility, but so far, NTP is not met. Then you're a swing into the Bondevik II government. Yes, Bondevik II had a realistic goal of what could be done, both in terms of investing in the road sector and in terms of getting the country back on track. That is why the Sem declaration was presented, which was quite sober in relation to how to bet on the future. And what was promised in the Sem statement was fulfilled. That was plus 600 million. kr on the road. And if you count the OPS project into the South-Tronde Team, which of course is also a road project, you fulfill the Sem declaration. For public transport, on the other hand, ambition was $2.5 billion in plus. The result was NOK 4 billion. Overall, therefore, the Bondevik government increased significantly the funds for road traffic and collective investment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e571	I have been sitting and following this debate. I needed to participate simply because I think that big city representatives and state councils should be subversive when they participate in a political debate. And so much irreparable as has been said from this pulpit in this debate, I have seldom heard. Firstly, the Progress Party was not a supporting party for the Bondevik II government. The Bondevik II government made it crystal clear that it was an independent government that would cooperate with all the opposition parties in the Stortinget – and the trade-off between the Workers' Party, SV and the Advance Party, since the issues that were dealt with. It was even such that the Workers' Party made budgetary settlements with the then Bondevik government, as well as that of the Progress Party. Then we talk about these fantastic local solutions and the local initiatives that come up in the field of transport. I think the red-greens, who are at the forefront of this type of user-funded road projects, should now recognize what is really the case. What is the case is that the vast majority of local government and county councils around this country have come into an entirely involuntary compulsion situation, because the state does not take its responsibility, because the state does not grant enough money. And because you have a responsibility to make sure that the road standard in the municipalities holds a fairly acceptable standard, there is no limit to what kind of local creativity comes. Now I heard the post of Torstein Rudihagen. All the measures proposed by Rudihagen are a direct consequence of a very poor road standard in Norway. It is precisely because we have poor road standards that a lot of tools and measures have been put in place to ensure road users better – measures that would be completely unnecessary if road standards were better, and if over the last 20, 30, 40, 50 years the state had taken responsibility as road builders instead of assuming this responsibility on the drivers and users. If you want a user-funded traffic system, you get to clean it. Charges cannot be levied in fines and ranges from users and then increased user funding through both toll financing and now, through the new initiatives of the Council of State towards many of the major cities, drug-time charges. I think the Council of State should explain why she is now going out and almost stating that it is bad done by many of the big cities if they do not introduce a rush-time charge – at the top of already a lot of user-funded charges and schemes that no users of the roads have asked for. I think most people will reasonably be involved in financing, but everything has to happen within reasonable limits. Here in the country we pay a lot more than we are near to getting back. And that is where this debate should be. Then I also think the red-green parties should be honest enough to say that they don't want to spend state money on it; users get paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e582	I'll be brief. First, Mr Halleraker's representative. If I was unclear about NTP, the national transport plan, I meant the 2007 level. But I said that we were doing well to fill up the aftermath. So a little visit to the representative Siv Jensen. I don't know if it's going to be so bad to call the Progress Party a supporting party, when you're in and you're going to adopt three out of four budgets. It is true that the Workers' Party participated in the adoption of one of the budgets of the Bondevik II government, but although one does not think it is entirely in place to say so, the representative Ström will continue to repeat that the Progress Party in its time was a supporting party for the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e591	Since one now has to be despicable, it is in its place to ask whether it is ‘adjustable’ to say that there is a large majority, all the non-participating Progress Party, which is responsible for the number of killings on the Norwegian road, as the Progress Party has said earlier in the debate. Is there a despicable way to debate? Is it not true that the Progress Party too has been divided into three budgets and has not been given any special initiative on the road? Is it advisable to relieve oneself of the responsibility that one then has, if the logic of Sandberg votes? Let me comment on something that has to do with politics, not just with victim roles and stuff. Rushtime charges were mentioned. I thought the Council of State in its letter should have been even more precise here, because I would like a rush-time charge in the metropolitan areas. But what the Council of State has asked for is to get initiatives from local authorities when this is the case. And that's actually the way it is, just to be despicable about the debate on taxes, that in Stockholm people voted for a rush-time charge because they want less pollution, less greenhouse gas emissions and less traffic noise – that's what they were tired of. These pages are also interesting to discuss. Finally, I would like to ask in relation to exorbitantness: is it only the state, the government and the majority of the population responsible for all road accidents in the budget? Is it not a personal responsibility at all in terms of e.g. use of seatbelts, drugs – things on which the Progress Party is liberal – and speed? I wondered if it was possible – in the light of persuasiveness – to get an orientation on what is actually ‘inferiority’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e600	The President would remind us that we are now actually dealing with a setting on Tromsøpack 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e603	It was not so unexpected that this debate was about to take a turn against tolls. First to Halleraker and Right: The increase from the Bondevik II Government to the budget line today is DKK 2.5 billion for transport. There is a frame – not a single action – that is lifted. Quite rightly, we have a lag from the first year, when we had a short time and managed to raise something, but not enough, in relation to the budget that the Bondevik government provided. That's what we're trying to do again. So to the representative, Siv Jensen: Everyone who followed the introduction of the Bondevik II government – the process from the election until we got a Bondevik II government – is quite clear again with the impression of Carl I. Hagen’s significant role and the Progress Party’s active role there, as well as three budgetary settlements. That's why it's not uneven to say what a lot of people say, and that the representative, Stroem, wants to continue with, I'm recording, that the Progress Party was one if one can't use the word support party, so a decisive party that the Bondevik II government was in place. I think you should agree on that. I think history will give me right in it. The reason I took the floor was a direct challenge to road pricing from the representative, Siv Jensen. It may not mean higher charges. Road pricing means that charges vary over the course of the day. So it could be a lot cheaper, even for free, if you want to, in parts of the day. However, in order to deal with the increasing problems of traffic and the environment that we see both here in this city and in other cities – in Stavanger, talking about road pricing is a measure that has proved to be effective. In Stockholm, e.g. the population has shown that they want to get to work and kindergarten when they are going, without risking being in line for half an hour or an hour. Tonight, the last few days have shown you what a problem this is. Rather, one would have such a system, but of course followed up with a great effort on public transport and rail, which this government has initiated by doubling the investment on rail and infrastructure by 50 pst. We have also just concluded an agreement with the NSB that will increase capacity by up to 15 pst. during a four-year period. There's no either here or here, of course, there's a boat and there's a boat. Collective action must be strong. It will be an environmental measure, a good measure. But I have not said that it should be imposed. I'm not going to impose it, but I want a dialogue with the big cities about it and other measures that might be relevant to consider entering the next national transport plan, to be submitted to the Stortinget in December 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e614	Governments would like to try to eliminate the effect of road pricing or rushing time charges. The fact is that someone will be affected by it, and it's those who have no alternative to flexibility, who can't travel later or earlier at work, and who are totally dependent on meeting at work at a certain time, preferably when it's rush time. It's a large majority, and it's always those who end up becoming dairy cows, also in the tax system. It's the vast, wide majority who always become dairy cows, because they have no alternative. It's a fact. Then to the budget. The Progress Party agrees with all the issues in which we voted for proposals, either directly submitted by the then Bondevik Government, or renegotiated with the Progress Party. We recognize all that we did, but just a few facts first: there weren't three budgetary settlements, there were two. If you want to represent the story, you have to do it correctly. There were two budgetary settlements, because there was a situation that had nothing to do with the budget at all – and the representatives should remember that. Through the budgetary agreements entered into by the Progress Party, it was significantly increased in both transport, local economy and some other areas, although it has been de facto said the opposite by representatives during this debate. These were fundamental prerequisites on the part of the Progress Party in order to support these budgets subsidiaryly, as we did. Then for transportation projects. The Progress Party is a fundamental opponent of road toll financing, because we believe it is a state responsibility. But it is also true that, locally, as a local politician for the Progress Party – whether it is in Oslo or elsewhere – there is sometimes no choice because the state does not send the money that the state is responsible for. In Oslo, for example, where the Progress Party and the Right are in a minority bureau, a majority of the City Council, of which the Progress Party was not part, laid down a structure they themselves were against. It's a fact. Then one must do the best of the situation, when one does not experience the will of this hall to take responsibility for improving the roads. And then to the question of the number of fatalities in traffic: what is a fact is that the number of fatal accidents — accidents and incidents in traffic, which are constantly increasing — arises as a direct consequence of poor road standards. It's not because Hallgeir H. Langeland personally wants to kill people, but because we have a bad road standard that we have to fix. The alternative to rectifying it is all of the climbing measures that you are doing, but that will never fix what is the main problem: bad roads and too narrow roads. That's where the bulk of the population should take their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e627	Stortinget still treats Tromsøpacket 2! Torstein Rudihagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e632	It's going to be interesting to see if the Progress Party comes in a plural constellation with the Right in the next period. Then I think that they must be as pragmatic as the Progress Party is in the City Council of Oslo, if one is to get solutions for this country. If it's time to clean up and be despicable, the fact is that the Progress Party was behind three of the four budgets that were in the period – just as Siv Jensen said, it was in a situation of pressure to save the government. I agree with that. The Labour Party entered into a single settlement. We are aware of that, but at the same time the Progress Party said when the period began that they were part of the parliamentary basis. In fact, Mr Hagen is forcing a decision here in the Chamber that the Progress Party should be part of the parliamentary basis. They can't escape it. So I went to Arne Sortevik, because he was also a little unfair and claimed that I had talked about project financing before the election and in the election campaign. That's not correct either. When it comes to project financing, one first met at it in Soria Moria, and then I've worked what I've been able to get rational progress on projects, and that's what we're still doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e643	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e647	I'll be brief, it's a matter of responsibility. When I point out who has the greatest responsibility, especially the Center Party, it's because they've been in position in different government constellations. The result is that just 5 pst. of our tribal roads have an acceptable standard. We have a backlog for maintenance on our roads, 40 to 50 billion kroner. We have a lag in investment on our tribal roads, at NOK 230 billion. There's responsibility. So you could say that with the three similarities we had with Bondevik II, we have some of the responsibility. Yeah, we admit it. We were not satisfied with Bondevik II at all when it came to the negotiations we had to get funds for transportation. We recognize it and have no problems with it. So I would like to point out this with rush time, because Stockholm is coming forward. Here it was massive support from people most in Sweden – 51 pst. by the people of Stockholm centre voted yes, but all the municipalities around voted no. Now we also experience mass demonstrations in the streets of London from the majority of people who go against the rush-time charge. Why? Well, because it's going to be socially biased. It hits them with lower and medium incomes, while they with bold wallets get their way alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e659	Hallgeir H. Langeland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e662	Since it was not answered whether what was said from the Progress Party was despicable, at least I am recording that Sandberg is now assuming the responsibility that he placed on us. So he's part of the person responsible, if a person uses statistics in the way the Progress Party did when it comes to the number of killers. I thought it was unfair to say that the only answer to get the number of accidents down is road, road, road. There's a lot of answers to that question. One answer goes to the driver himself and the measures that one does there for rushes, speeds and others. But then the question is: do you get more traffic on the roads, or do you get less traffic on the roads? There are completely different answers. We want less traffic in central areas, as one has tried out in Stockholm, and then we have to build the roads in the districts. That means that our policy will lead to fewer accidents when we remove transport in urban areas. So there's not just one answer to this. That's the main point of trying out the rush time charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e669	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e685	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the president of those who would have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time would have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e694	The position concerns the draft representative referred to by the President. The document makes the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a broad review of the data protection issue related to monitoring and recording in the transport sector and to present it in a separate wholesale notification.’ The Committee stresses that issues related to monitoring and registration in the transport sector are important issues, which it is high time to be discussed on a broad basis, as proposed by the proposers. Fully automatic tolling stations on road installations, billing plates placed in cars for payment on road, ferries and other transport, in parking facilities, etc. enable traceability. Such and similar measures in the transport sector can be seen as steps towards a monitoring society, where it will be possible to monitor everywhere and always – where we are driving, when we are driving, how fast we are running, and how we are running. The right to move freely and unregistered on Norwegian roads is an important right and therefore measures to reduce or restrict this right should be discussed carefully. The Committee refers to St.meld No. 17 for 2006-2007, An information society for all, which is under consideration in the Committee, proposing the appointment of a Data Protection Commission. The Committee would otherwise refer to further discussions on privacy in the transport sector when dealing with that matter. The Committee has also noted the comments of the Minister of Transport on this proposal we are discussing here, in a letter to the Committee dated 11 January 2007, which also refers to the fact that privacy will be addressed in the next communication on the national transport plan and that the so-called consent proposal on the EFC Directive – Electronic Fee Collection – will be presented to the Stortinget later in the spring session. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right refer to the fact that, with notified measures in the transport sector, there will be no possibility of anonymous action. It gives less freedom to law-abiding citizens. These members assume that the outcome of the Commission's work, i.e. the Data Protection Commission, will be followed up by a communication to the Stortinge. Let me add, on behalf of the Progress Party, that we also assume that it should not take too long. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposes that the document be annexed to the minutes. These two parties have their own comments and suggestions. The Progress Party believes that the issue is important. I refer to the Data Protection Agency, which is skeptical that more and more bodies in society want access to electronic information from traffic. I quote the Director of the Data Protection Agency, Georg Apenes: ‘We have chosen to waive the right to move freely and uncontrollably on Norwegian roads. But we have not bothered Odels- and Lagging with the question." The Progress Party wants the Storting to have a greater focus on privacy in general and on privacy in the transport sector in particular. In all the autumn of 2006, all opposition parties expressed their wish to have a wide-ranging discussion of such issues in the transport sector. The background was precisely this EU directive that is now coming, the EFC, electronic payment directive, and a pre-accession agreement for new cars from 2009 to have so-called black boxes. So, from the point of view of the Progress Party, we will come back to the debate when St.meld. No Seventeen is coming. We have some leads that we are now briefly mentioning: the right to be anonymous, the right to demand the deletion of electronic tracks and the requirement for non-active surveillance are important. It is important that the police and authorities have the means to use them in the fight against terrorism and crime. But if the desire to be anonymous is equated with having something to hide, it in practice means that the possibility of being anonymous to decent people is reduced. This should not happen, and not without debate at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e726	I am very happy that the question of privacy is being raised. It's important to focus on it. I fully agree with the case spokesman that privacy is an important issue. Therefore, it is necessary that we continue to discuss and fight against each other the different concerns that one needs to take here – for example. the individual’s right to act and move freely, as one wishes, towards society’s need to exercise a certain level of control and to prosecute individuals. Should society take it for granted that the individual individual complies with the law only because it is a law, or should one control that it happens? Anyone who has tried to follow the speed limit consistently on the Norwegian road has experienced passing and blinking. Unfortunately, control is necessary. If we are to control, we must also tolerate the control of some law-abiding citizens. It's important that we have confidence in the individual. But if we're moving up towards, for example, planes, we have a huge freedom on the road. One can sit in a car without notifying or registering the name, as one in practice has to do on flights. As I said, these are important debates, but I ask myself whether this might need to be more like an interpellation than a Document No. Eight proposals. As the case-speaker was also in the future, the Committee is faced with several issues in the near future, where we will discuss privacy – among others. in connection with St.meld. No 17, An information society for all, and consent to the EU Eletronics Directive – E F Collection, EFC. St.meld. No 17 also announces that a privacy commission will be set up. It is a pleasure that this is something the Government is taking seriously. We are also pleased that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee announces that it will take a closer look at the problems of electronic pieces that do not give anonymity, and the problems of ATK that take a picture of innocents by means of so-called average measurements. There we think we've found a good solution because these images are only to be saved for a few seconds, but it's okay that we get a review of it as well. There are many privacy challenges in the transport sector, but these are not quite unique, so we support the proposal in St.meld. No 17 on a Commission that sees all sectors of society in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e739	There are many ways to define privacy. An important element is in any case the individuality and its inviolability and the demands for respect from other people. For the Christian People's Party, individual man has an infinite value and inviolable rights. This is fundamental thinking on the part of the Christian People's Party. A general feature of social development is the increasing level of registration and intensive use of personal data. This applies to all transport sectors. The objectives are usually good – they can be everything from increased efficiency to better profitability, user adaptation, better public health, etc. Electronic tracks are formed both in the electronic equipment one uses, e.g. mobile phone, PC, ATMs, and also to a significant extent in the transport sector of toll companies. The information is vulnerable to abuse depending on how well it is secured. The consequences of electronic tracks are becoming increasingly challenging, including within the transport sector. Before that one could be quite certain that electronic tracks were erased relatively quickly. Now the storage capacity has become so large and cheap that one can no longer expect the information to disappear on its own. However, we must ensure that we do not gradually undermine fundamental rights in the service of good. The consideration of fundamental rights can therefore imply that one is restrictive, even though the arguments for weakening privacy may seem strong and legitimate. At least it's important to be conscious. We are facing a raging development, a development that may conflict with privacy and the integrity of the individual. It is therefore appropriate that we take a closer look at our own sector now. Of course, we have noticed that in response to the Committee, the Council of State has referred to St.meld. No 17 for 2006-2007, which the Committee is currently examining, where an alert indicates that a data protection commission will be set up, that one will explore the possibilities for pseudonymous solutions and certificates, and further explore anonymous payment cards. But the Christian People's Party is nevertheless of the opinion that we should focus on privacy in our own area now. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Left's proposal to ask the Government to make its own communication with a broad review of the privacy issue related to monitoring and registration in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e750	Strong privacy has been an important issue for the Left for many years. Privacy is an important part of individual freedom, and without a conscious privacy policy, we can end up in a totally monitored society. I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the support he gave, even though his party chose not to participate in the proposal itself. I have to admit that I have been a little surprised during the process in this case, as I record that some people do not see the problem, or wonder who ‘they’ are – ‘they’ want to use collected personal data against us. In these times of vision and hearing, it may be that someone has come up with different thoughts. It is obvious in my mind that the danger of misuse of personal information increases when personal data is collected in ever-new fields. The transport sector is such an example. The development in this area is happening at such a great speed that it is difficult for anyone to hang on to the turns. Already today we leave electronic tracks all the time, and several measures are on the stairs. Introducing a GPS transmitter into each car would give an improper overview of where people are. My point is: Should this be mandatory, or should it still be a right to move anonymously unless you are suspected of a crime? Do we want a society where you get questions like, what did you really do, since you didn't leave electronic tracks? We in the Left believe that we need to have a debate on these issues. Our basic attitude is that it must still be possible to move anonymously. It's important for me to clarify that the Left is not opposed to new technology. We're not opponents of technology that, for example, will make it easier to pay for or track cars in the event of traffic accidents. The left is occupied by the individual's choice. Not everyone wants to leave tracks everywhere. I hope that more people here agree that there must be a legitimate position in a liberal democracy. It is when these measures become mandatory, and we can no longer choose to be anonymous, that we in the Left respond. It is on this basis that we have proposed that the Government carry out a review of the privacy issue in the transport sector. When privacy is set up against other good intentions, it turns out that privacy has to give up. I admit that it is easier to be privacy-friendly in theory than in practice. Most of the issues where privacy is pressed have good intentions, but that's exactly why we want to raise the debate on how far we want to go and what kind of society we want. Although privacy is to be discussed in the national transport plan and in the consent proposal on the EFC Directive, we believe that the challenges in the transport sector are so great that they deserve their own big message. However, we appreciate the fact that both the Government and the Committee have given a signal that they take these issues seriously. With this I take up the minority proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e767	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e770	Representatives Sponheim and Tenden, in their proposal, ask the Government to carry out a broad review of the personal problem associated with monitoring and registration in the transport sector, and to present this in a separate big message. Particular reference is made to the use of electronic tags as means of payment in vehicles. I have registered the strong focus on privacy issues in the transport sector. The focus has been particularly related to the collection of tolls. Although there are several issues related to privacy in the transport sector, I would like to point out that privacy issues are largely cross-sectoral. I therefore believe that it would be most useful for a potential privacy impact message to have a cross-sectoral approach, and that privacy in the transport sector is an important element of such a communication. I think the data protection issue is mentioned in the ICT message, i.e. St.meld. No 17 for 2006-2007, An information society for all. A clarification as to whether to submit such a cross-sectoral privacy message must, in my view, be clarified by the follow-up of the Government to the Stortingen treatment of St.meld. No 17. In addition, I have seen it as natural to give privacy a mention in the forthcoming consent proposal on the EFC Directive, which aims to ensure that the proposition is presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs during the spring. I also believe that privacy should be mentioned in the next notification of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e781	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e784	To this end, namely the announced and announced EFC proposal, the so-called consent proposal, which is now coming: A bit of what drew attention and strong commitment in the autumn of 2006, was a rather long and comprehensive letter from the Data Protection Authority to the Ministry of Transport, which was just linked to the consent proposal. I just want to briefly quote what the director of the Data Protection Agency says: ‘Unless restrictions on monitoring possibilities are also adopted, implementation will involve one of the most privacy-friendly measures placed on the political agenda of the 26 years of existence of the Data Protection Authority.’ I would like to be assured that at the end of the processing of the consent proposal, there has been a good and, above all, a better dialogue with the Data Protection Authority than that expressed in this letter of 10 October 2006 from the Head of the Data Protection Authority to the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e796	There is no doubt that the EFC Directive requires a careful follow-up and that there are significant balances in the work being done. When it comes to the letter from the Data Protection Authority, it was also taken very seriously in the Ministry of Transport. I myself have attended a meeting where the data controller's leader has been present, and has ensured that the dialogue has been better. The news to me is that one has had a better dialogue, and that both parties have realised that one is dependent on that dialogue to find a solution that is good for both road users and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e804	The government is now implementing an EU directive such as: deals with tolling systems. In an automatic toll station, all vehicles passing are registered either by reading an AutoPASS chip or by video recording. My question is: will the Minister for Transport guarantee that it will still be possible to travel anonymously by ensuring that there are real track-free alternatives at automatic toll stations, i.e. alternatives that do not leave electronic tracks?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e811	In the preparation of a big business in this area, a track-free option is also being developed. That's what the Road Directorate has wanted, and that's what I hope we can do. I agree with the representative Tenden and the left in the intentions that people should be able to travel without being tracked. It also applies to other parts of society, so we might also have to focus on this on other parts of society. So my answer is, yeah, it's going to be working on finding a non-track option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e818	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e823	I think there are important things that have emerged, both from the representative Borghild Tenden and not least from the Council of State. I fully agree with a lot of what both have said, and I look forward to the debate when we get to St.meld. No 17, where privacy is an important topic. But I want to draw up a small example in relation to some of the representatives of Borghild Tenden. There are some of the challenges we will face in the future, especially in the case of tolls or so-called antennas. So you're going to start setting up antenna points along the way, and for every time you run past an antenna point, this is going to be recorded, and you're going to get a bill in the post. The challenge with that is, if you extend it very far, that the next thing is that the police may finally get these registrations from the bomb companies, and in that way they can only send out fees in the mail to the drivers because they have spent too little time driving from one antenna to the other. Obviously, it's an extreme case. But the possibilities that open up here now are actually something we'll be very worried about in the future. That's why I think the debate that's coming is very important. There is a debate I expect there will be a lot of discussion about when we get to St.meld. No 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e830	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e850	The national transport plan, as we know it today, was developed in the 1990s and replaced it, among other things. Norwegian Road and Road Road Plan and Norwegian Railway Plan. The aim of the conversion was to promote Storting’s potential for overall and long-term strategic thinking with more emphasis on target-medium-thinking. There was also a desire for a greater long-term approach to policy thinking and a desire to contribute to a greater focus on objectives and impacts of policy governance in the transport sector and to a lesser extent on individual projects. This in itself is an ambitious objective of a great deal that has always been happy to debate individual projects, and how geographical preferences are largely visible. But there was nothing to say about the level of ambition. The new one was also to make impact calculations of the recommended strategy and alternative devices on key measurement parameters such as environment, road safety, transport costs and socio-economic benefits. I know that the then head of the Committee on Transport, Oddvard Nilsen from the Right, was concerned about this, like the others in the Committee. So my impression is that government as well as government went to this work with good intentions and assumptions. In a report from TØI, Steering, Delegation and Influence? A historical analysis is also being carried out on the treatment of the Stortingen National Transport Plan 2006–2015. It is clear from this that during the spring 2001 deliberation of the first NTP, for 2002–2011, a single committee called for precise impact calculations that could be comparable across modes of transport. The Committee was fully involved in transport policy and felt that there was a lack of technical basis for re-disposals between the investment programmes and the various modes of transport in an informed manner. This trend was also evident in the last roll of NTP in 2005. Some went so far as to say that they did not trust the impact calculations that would govern the implementation of NTP. The above TØI report is very interesting reading. It reveals that independent of government constellations, NTP has not become what was meant to be a goal- and governance tool to help us as professional politicians concentrate on the big lines of transport policy. I think that's why it was important to pull up this rug for some of the intention behind my interpellation. This is perhaps the largest planning process in the Kingdom, and then it is important that it is done in a satisfactory way, and in accordance with the intentions that big business and government have had. In recent years, the environmental perspective has strengthened as an area of interest in transport policy as well, and perhaps especially the major challenges we face in terms of CO2 emissions and pollution. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is crystal clear in its latest report, and only those who are fascinated by gambling with high stakes and high drop heights cannot take this with the greatest seriousness. In this context, it is about the most important parameter we have for life on Earth, climate change. Here on the mountain, our own low-flow sample has presented its recommendation, which concludes with a two-thirds reduction in CO2 gases by 2050. For the transport sector, the challenges are great because they will contribute as much as one third of the total reductions, or 15 million tonnes of CO2, to reach the so-called low-carbon plan described in the sample report. Of course, I am aware that the issue is not new, but the seriousness of the fact that all doubts are set aside means that we must at least establish a precautionary principle on the basis of our policies. The right has indicated that our ambitions must be at least as high as in the EU. There is no small ambition, but at the same time we know that as the world's richest country, we also have greater opportunities than many others. For the transport sector, there are many exciting balances that can be made, but the most important of these is to clarify — as far as possible — the individual actions and policy priorities and results, and, of course, the impact of these measures on overall development and needs across carriers. This last one is important. In this context, it is important to be able to balance priorities and actions against each other, so that, if possible, we achieve an optimal result not only in terms of the environment but also in terms of accessibility, road safety and efficiency. Let me mention some areas that, in my opinion, are well suited to balance. Firstly, a more fundamental balance in an environmental and mobility perspective of bet options within the major carriers. Is it e.g. adequate balance between more goods on the road versus more goods on the road versus more goods on the sea versus road? Most of the parties in this room have this in their programs and celebrations. But where do we find scenarios for how much is needed to stimulate that a desired development actually takes place? I am thinking in particular of the organisation through infrastructure, economic policies and incentives. Another area: I note that the measures taken by the previous government in modernising the railways in Norway are now bearing fruit. But still there is a potential for developing the freight sector so that we can get even more freight on the road, and this does not necessarily have to be synonymous with CargoNet's activities. Here there is also considerable room for alternatives. On the terminal side and in the context of intermodal solutions, there is also a high potential for scenarios that may provide a better basis for prioritisation. Another area is the road standard. In my opinion, we have today developed a normal road standard system on Norwegian roads that is too nuanced. This often has consequences for the number of kilometres we travel to build up every year. We need a discussion if it's such that the four-field road must always be synonymous with the motorway standard as we know it. It is fully possible to imagine a narrower four-field road with simpler off- and on-roads than a 24-metre-wide motorway at 120 km/h design speed, or Class A, as we usually call it. At the other end of the scale: Many low-traffic roads are built in my opinion with too high a standard, roads where the need is often simply the arrival and passage of two vehicles, or simply yellow stripe in the road. At both ends of the scale, road safety and accessibility are essential, not large-scale, land-intensive road installations. It could therefore be interesting to assess this in an economic and environmental and road safety perspective. So to another important area that is strictly within the remit of several committees, namely different measures to promote more environmentally friendly fuels. This is precisely the major challenge for the transport sector to contribute to our national targets for greenhouse gas reductions. There is an absolute need for different scenarios in order to assess the different measures against each other in an optimal target achievement, even above the limits of individual carriers. Another important area is public transport, which undoubtedly has a high potential, especially in large cities. There are many themes that are appropriate for attention in this context. In this interpellation, I have mentioned developments in air traffic in Norway, which have been very large, and where the forecasts of Avinor go straight to heaven, literally. But with the interest that the political environment and not least the people most have shown for a competing option, namely high-speed rail, this is an important theme for scenario design. The high-speed concept to compete with air traffic must serve the major cities of Norway. Between these cities there is an air traffic which is already up to ten times higher than the relative traffic between major cities in Europe – and it is before Avinor’s growth forecast with from three to four doublings of air travel to 2050. There's a lot of air travel! The focus on the theme after we launched our ideas on such a vision in the Right, and after the Minister for Transport made sure that important urban destinations were included in the important planning work she started, there is a wide-ranging scenario balance between different carriers. Is it e.g. necessary to bet on a third runway on the Gardermoen in order to operate a forecast traffic, which can equally be replaced by a high-speed rail, such as. the South Norwegian high-speed ring? The questions are many. My initiative is well-intentioned in the sense that I hope we can agree on the methodology in a strategy paper that is so important to the nation and that the priorities we are making have a major impact on the overall transport image. Then it simply does not keep up with a plan that is not good enough and does not take into account politicians' desire to be able to balance individual areas better with each other. I look forward to an exciting and important debate which hopefully brings us a little closer to the real intention of the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e903	We'll have hope of that!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e906	Work on the national transport plan for the period 2010–2019 is well under way. In my opinion, we have set up a clean planning process that ensures good coordination and participation in all parts of the work. Plan work has also been organised to provide the basis for holistic policy priorities, effective use of instruments and strengthening the interaction between the various modes of transport. This is important in order to achieve efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport solutions. The Government intends to provide the NTP data collection message in December 2008. An important basis for the message is the joint plan proposed by the transport operators and Avinor. They have time until January 2008 to provide their input to the Departments, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The proposal is public and is to be sent to the county councils and major cities for issue at the same time, with a deadline in April 2008. For me, it is important that we have set up a planning process with good involvement from counties and big cities and from user and interest groups. At the same time, we have strengthened the political dialogue between the departments and the counties and the big cities. The work in etatane and Avinor takes place on the basis of guidelines from the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department. We gave guidance on process and content in the planning work in January 2006. These are later complemented by guidelines on target structure and on the management and quality assurance of large transport projects at the early stage of planning, known as KS1. As part of the preliminary work, all modes of transport have been responsible for the development of the core network in a 30-year perspective. towards 2040. Avinor has created a sector layout with the same time perspective. The distributions were completed in the autumn of 2006 and were invited to comment on them by the deadline of 1 February 2007. I assume that there are these arrangements the representative Halleraker is aiming for in his interpellation. It is important to be aware that core network services only point to needs without the need being taken into account in the context of economic frameworks. The distributions will provide a basis for discussing prioritisation strategies within each sector. At the same time, there will be an input into the further work on strategic and cross-sectoral assessments that transport modes will make in their planning proposals to the departments. In the corridor analyses, which are now being worked on by the etatians and Avinor, they are used, among other things. analyse areas of competition and the possibility of coordination between modes of transport. In the final presentation by the Eta and Avinor, the different objectives of the transport policy are to move towards each other. These are objectives related to the emergence, security, environment and accessibility. Measurements are currently formulated in the following guidelines on target structure. In the environmental field, this objective is linked to: reduce greenhouse gas emission reductions NOx emissions to achieve national targets on local pollution and noise avoided interventions in important natural areas and exploit important ecological functional barriers to key cultural memory, cultural environment, cultural landscapes and agro-forestry emissions of petroleum products or other environmentally hazardous products resulting from marine accidents; When it comes to greenhouse gases, sectoral climate action plans are now being worked on. The transport climate action plan will provide clear guidance on the priorities to be set out in the national transport plan. As you know, the Ministry of Transport, in parallel with the core network services, has asked the Railway Agency to carry out an independent assessment of whether it is socially interesting to upgrade or reconstruct sections for more than 200 km/h of running speed. After an international bidding round, a German consortium of consultants was selected as consultant for the mission. The consultants presented the first phase of the work in the autumn of 2006 and advised to proceed with a more thorough distribution of two sections, Oslo-Trondheim via Østerdalen and Oslo-Gotteborg, in project phase 2. In addition, in the light of various recordings, the Ministry of Transport, in consultation with the Railway Agency, has chosen to proceed with the development of the high-speed rail network in South West Norway in a phase 3 of the project. This part of the distribution is designed to cover both the Haukelibanen, launched by the company Norsk Bane AS, and the so-called Högfartsring, proposed in Document No. 8:94 for 2005-2006. In relation to the mission of the previous government, the Railway Agency, an assessment of the Oslo–Halden route to illustrate the high-speed concept, is the distribution mission of this government to take the concept seriously in order to investigate whether bold visions can be moved closer to the realization of routes that are important for the travel pattern in Norway. The distribution work will be completed early in the autumn of 2007. A hearing round will then be carried out before the Railway Agency makes its assessment in relation to the basic material of the national transport plan. The purpose of the distribution work is to determine whether construction and operation of high-speed railways in Norway may be appropriate. The government will then present its views on this matter to the Storing of the National Transport Plan. The government will conduct a holistic transport policy, where we see the individual modes of transport in context. In the National Transport Plan, we present the main features of transport policy to the Government. Furthermore, within the national transport plan, within the economic framework, we give priority to the amount of resources to be spent on investment and operation and maintenance in the future, and allocate efforts between sectors. The work on the plan must be based on a recognition that transport policy will have a wide range of objectives and interests. Transport is a means of achieving national objectives related to value creation and well-being, industrial development and regional development. At the same time, it is important to increase road safety, to reduce environmental damage and to provide all better access to the transport system. The main challenge is to balance the objective of increasing mobility towards the other aspects of transport policy. I am concerned that, in the national transport plan, we take a holistic approach, which sets out the different objectives and looks out for each other. This is one of the things. the background for me in the fall before mentioning supplementary guidelines on target structure. The aim is to improve policy delivery and to allow policy objectives to be better balanced. We will formulate final targets in the Storing message and pass them on to Storinget. Work on the national transport plan is required. There are many stakeholders involved who have cross-cutting interests and we should consider a number of different objectives. Among other things, based on the basic material that we have commissioned to provide, I am sure that we will have a good basis for looking at the various modes of transport and that the environmental perspective will be well taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e962	There was not so much surprising in the articles of the Council of State. But what I may have missed was an answer to my main challenge, which was about what I perceive as perhaps one of the most important things in all strategy work, and which is also a recognised theory relating to important strategy work and decision analysis, namely that alternative scenarios with different outcomes for consequences resulting from action are presented, and through it describes effects as a result of the priorities presented. As I perceived the Council of State, this is a process that she trusts to take place, but that it takes place in the department. I think it is exemplary that we got these long-term plans to be transparent in this road plan preparation. At least that has resulted in us in the right sending our comments to the plans, which is actually the only possibility we have to influence the NTP process every four years. I don't think that's satisfactory. I could imagine, in order to be completely concrete, that we got a strategy paper, maybe about this time in the process, where the Storting really got a chance to evaluate the individual scenarios so that it would be easier to decide how to make the main priorities between the carriers. When the plan arrives, it has been through a broad process in counties and municipalities and many other bodies, and thus has many ties to individual projects and other things. I am more concerned that we need to have a more strategic discussion about where we want the road to go. That's my challenge, and then I'm going to hope that there might be something more in the debate here today. I could also imagine, since I have some more time, to touch into a field that has been up in the debate earlier today, and also in a TV program yesterday, about the tragic events on our road network. If there's not a great opportunity to get scenarios, I don't know. I think it's a little unworthy to blame each other -- who's to blame for what -- I think we might rather have to go in and see what we can do and what it costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e973	I note that the representative Halleraker has a new approach in relation to the national transport plan. In this case, it would be a new approach in relation to most large-scale notifications if one were to provide a strategy paper — and therefore a national transport plan is both a strategy paper and an action plan. Unfortunately, when it comes to handling, it's the action program that's in focus. I've challenged all the county councils on that. I've met all the county councils regionally and tried to raise my eyes with them to what are the major challenges and the long lines. As a former county representative, I myself know how demanding it is, because we have been able to get into the concrete projects. I think it's nice or possible, like the timeline now, to consider such a solution as providing a strategy paper for Stortinget now. I want to show that it's the first time that the root network statements have been published. There's a lot of progress from past processes, where these have been secret. It has given the great crowds, as Halleraker also said, the opportunity to make clear representations at an early stage, which of course will be important in the process. So it is that all political parties here in the United Kingdom have county organisations, and most of them also have county groups — the latter may well vary — which are also important precursors to work on the next national transport plan. If that's possible, I'll ask a question to Halleraker, because in his main post he put a lot of emphasis on the environment. He gave me some. It is a major challenge for the transport sector. But when it was connected to seeing the sectors more in context, does that mean that Right will discuss the transfer of funds from the road sector to road and public transport? Insofar as an environment is concerned, it is well what must be the conclusion that can be drawn from the Halleraker article. In the case of the high-speed railway concept, where Halleraker raises the High-speed Ring, it would also be interesting to see whether Halleraker would support all options that would be relevant to the high-speed rail, regardless of whether it is the High-speed Ring or other sections with which it might be appropriate to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e986	Initially, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important topic, namely the need for real coordination of transport planning and the need to see the different modes of transport in context, not least from an emission and environmental perspective. In recent years, we have put together transport planning in one plan, the national transport plan. National transport plan is one document, but with sectoral plans for the four modes of transport, rail, road, aircraft and boat. The plan has so far contained little or no coordinated transport planning across sectors. The need for comprehensive and comprehensive transport planning is important for several reasons. A cross-policy objective has long been to improve the transport of goods by boat and rail in order to ensure good transport conditions for business and to improve road accessibility. The road director called this a mouthhole on an occasion, because it's been a political goal for a long time, but we haven't done it. I believe that it is not just a matter of political will, but also of good planning that shows how we can achieve it. The need for coordinated transport planning is also important in the development of sectoral climate plans, which will highlight the challenges in each sector and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In this work, we should look at the transport sector as a whole and see what measures we can take to reduce greenhouse gas emissions overall for the transport sector. Now the rolling of the national transport plan has come a long way, and it is being developed, as we have heard, largely after the same reading as before, and with the Road Directorate as the coordinating body. In my view, it should be the last national transport plan drawn up in a sector-by-sector manner. A different organisation of this work should be considered until the next plan is drawn up. Here at Stortinget we have one transport committee responsible for the entire transport sector. In my opinion, it should be considered whether this organisation should also be reflected in relation to the directorate and department structures. I support the inter-pellant's consideration of the need for a clear environmental and coordination perspective in the national transport plan, and believe that a coordinated transport sector will provide a more comprehensive transport planning that sees the transport modes in the context and that can ensure better accessibility for most people, a good logistics for freight transport and a good traffic management overall for the country and to and from abroad. In addition, a comprehensive approach to the climate challenges for the transport sector will allow us to overall reduce greenhouse gas emissions for this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1003	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising a very important question. We're going to hope that it won't happen with this interpellation and the little debate we have today, because I think the interpellant is about something essential if we're going to get in place – let me say – the world's best infrastructure in a 20-30 year perspective. I also think that the inter-pellant is following up what was the intention of the Progress Party in the 2007 budget, where the Progress Party called for renewal in the work on the National Transport Plan. This is in the budgetary position for 2007 in the form of a note, but at that time it was rejected by other parties. In the note, the Progress Party writes: ‘On this basis’ — i.e. the core network investigations of individual departments — ‘these members consider that a comprehensive core network notification in the transport sector for the period 2010-2040 should be presented to the Stortinget in 2007 with proposals for objectives, strategies, main priorities and long-term funding of the core network deployment in Norway’. We followed this up with a proposal, but at that time it only got the votes of the Progress Party. I think that was a proposal that might capture the intentions of the interpellation, but of course without making any premises for, for example. Railways and high-speed trains, which I feel the interpellant does. What is important is that we need accurate statistics on both environmental efficiency and transport efficiency for the various modes of transport. Today's statistics and yesterday's statistics have been deficient and directly misleading. Assumptions about rail, and then perhaps towards high-speed rail, and the environment relative to other transport are still not well documented. But I hope it lies in the interpellation that we need to get documentation. It leads me to something we know, and that the Council of State was also in. Now we have access to the core network investigation, and there we see the needs of the transport sectors within which we operate today. By failing to take seriously these needs that are there today, Norwegian society can lose DKK 60-70 billion per year. years. The needs that are there today are beyond 90 billion kroner to existing railways. That's $230 billion. There is an investment need of some 40 billion kroner for aircraft. There are also tens of billions of dollars to the port and the sea. These are the needs we have to address when we are going to put in place long-term strategies to get, which the interpellant is also perfectly well aware of, optimal achievement in both business development, the public sector, the environment and damage and accidents. If we do manage to get a social account, which I think will actually give us a positive sign if we finance these needs that are in the core network investigations now, I think we've come very far. But then one prerequisite has to be considered, and that is that we believe in these investigations, the documentation and the statistics that are subsequently produced in a cross-political way, so that there is no political achievement in this, which we might have witnessed in a previous debate today – that some are considered a road party and some are considered a railway party, but that one believes in the reports that one gets in that context. I have repeatedly said that the planning process we have in connection with the national transport plan has failed, and I have also ‘looked’ around the fact that large transport projects may need to be excluded from the national transport plan, which we have successfully included in some areas. Then I think we should also look at the planning processes that we have around in the whole country. When operating with 431 municipalities, 19 county municipalities, etc., it is not so easy to get speedy and effective progress to put in place the core networks that we probably all wish to cross-politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1026	It is a very important debate that Mr Halleraker is putting forward here. In particular, I would like to comment on some aspects of the coordination part of what the interpellant has to say. We're here for a piece. We used to have four different sectoral plans that the Storting treats separately. Now we have tried in two ways to deal with the National Transport Plan. For the first time there was little coordination, for the second time there was a good deal better, and the hope is that we will now achieve even better coordination, and, as the Sandberg representative pointed out, we will be able to find a basis of decision that we are quite a few on. What I think is important to get out, these are more overarching, coordinating lines. What can be really done? What are the effects? What is the price in terms of resources and other aspects of this? To give an example, we know that air traffic is increasing very strongly. As the interpellant was about, can we, for example, avoid or delay the unpleasant decision about a possible third runway on the Gardermoen by betting on a speedy train? Another question is, what is real when it comes to getting freight from land to sea? There's a lot of people talking about this, but what's real? And not least, what measures are needed to achieve this transition? Another problem that transport politicians and others often encounter is the question: How can we save as much as possible human lives and suffering in the security sector? Where do we get the most for every million we see in security measures across sector boundaries – whether it's road, whether it's track, whether it's air or whether it's sea? These things are very important, but we who have been involved in several of these debates know that this is what the Council of State itself said: it often drowns in the concrete promises, the concrete priorities, because there is a shortage of things that show up in the individual state and on the individual road, route or airport. I think we're needed – not this time maybe, but in the future – to get a two-part process in the national transport plan. I think that we should discuss these important principles without dedicating ourselves to concrete city names and crowns, and we are forced to have a national transport plan in two ways: a round where we discuss these aspects – those that I call, those that the Council of State and the inter-pellant and others have mentioned – a little in principle, without taking a stand on the concrete promises and the concrete distances, and a round where we discuss an action plan on the basis of this. Both the interpellant and the state councils have been involved in this, and if we can't do it in this round, I think it must be a goal that we get into this. If not, as we always see, we become most interested in the nearness – the individual vows and the individual path. So this is a little encouragement to work further in a very important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1037	Let me also start by thanking the interpellant for an interesting issue – and an important issue, not least when he draws out greenhouse gas emissions and traffic safety as an important factor in the debate. One important observation from me is that it is important to keep Halleraker and others out of government. When they are in government, they never come with any good ideas, as we are in government now, do. But when Halleraker is released by Per-Kristian Foss and others, he comes with creative input into the debate, both today and before, with high-speed tracks and stuff like that. So there's a strong call for the voters: keep the right out of government! Climate challenges provide a basis for addressing the issue of coordination posed by Halleraker. I see that when this government is working on the greenhouse gas problem, there are clear challenges across sectors to get a proper grip on this. And so there's a point. For if we look at the overall climate challenges, there is clearly a certain choice of values in government. This government prioritises the railway high. We also give priority to roads in the districts, while the Right does, to prioritize roads, often in contrast to railways. And the comrades they're going to work with in government are cutting off the railroad tracks. One does not need to create difficult plans to say that it means higher greenhouse gas emissions. Some things can be seen without a plan. One understands that if one cuts in the railway effort, there will be more cars on the road, more car trains on the road, more road accidents and worse climate policies. And that's exactly what I'm wondering -- if one of the right-hand sides is willing to join the game when you're going to taste steak. Why is it that one from the Right's side thought it was stupid to charge rush time in Stockholm, when one knows that it works on greenhouse gas emissions? Why is there a difference between things that work? One doesn't have to create a hard plan for it - one can only look at what they've done. It's working! And 53 pst. by the population, it wants to continue, because it actually reduces noise problems, it reduces greenhouse gas emissions, it allows young people to be in the streets even in the inner city of Stockholm, it is more road-traffic, and it reduces greenhouse gas emissions. So these are actions that work, and you don't need to spend that much time on them. But there put the right foot down and say we shouldn't, despite that one sees the positive consequences it has. It is very important to put an end to the debate on greenhouse gas emissions, but then one must be involved. I am pleased to register that SV's requirement for 50 pst. Greenhouse gas reduction by 2020 has a right-wing approach. But it's when you're done with the percentage and you're going to go over the concrete measures, that Right meets the challenge. Then I think that if it's a matter of putting a lot of money on high-speed trains and a lot of money on the railways, then unfortunately the tax will come before that. For one, priorities are based on what one stands for politically, and taxation is one of the most important issues on the right. Then there's not enough money for everything, there's not going to be that much money for the community, and then there's not going to be any money for the railway line that an airy can talk about in the opposition. There is a real challenge to the interpellant. I could be confused to think that Halleraker represents a new Right, which is to take climate responsibility, and which is to be involved in the concrete things that also go wrong. But I don't have the feeling that Halleraker and Right have become as bright red as that. They also try to do the things that do not cost anything specific, either financially or personally, on the action page. I thought that Mr Halleraker had to respond from Stortinget's spokesman to what the Minister for Transport also asked for. I've said for myself that an alternative high-speed radar is now working out. We have demanded that, and the Council of State has done so. I have a certain idea that there's only one alternative that applies, so Halleraker has to answer if it's such that if an arrangement concludes with another alternative than his right, then they jump off the ballet, or is it so that they stand on the right? With these comments, I support the intention of the proposer, but I think we need to do a few more rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1057	I would first also like to put myself in the order of those who thank the representative Halleraker for having travelled this interpellation. He formulates with it an important challenge: holisticity, planning and coordination – for the benefit of the environment and society. Then I think it's a little strange that the representative Langeland uses his entire post to polemise against the representative Halleraker. And then he's talking about being in the game and taking the stabs. What I'm wondering after the post that Langeland made here, is whether he's really willing to help pay the cost when we're going to coordinate, and if there's any questions about building the high-speed train. It's a huge challenge. At least we need to get the project funding in place if we're going to spend NOK 100 billion over a 10-year period. It's a challenge not just to the opposition. It's a challenge to the government that's sitting there. It is not difficult to find concrete examples of coordination challenges. For example, several mentioned the issue of a third runway on the Gardermoen, which is absolutely something that needs to be assessed in the context of the next national transport plan in relation to the high-speed rail challenge. We have a large number of runway airports in the country, which different governments have tried to look at. Over three periods in the Transport and Communications Committee, I have been involved in various investigations about this. So we're going to have a red-green government in place, which says this is going to be frozen for four years. This means that a debate has been killed in Finnmark, a debate has been killed in Helgeland, a debate has been killed in Northernland, and in Narvik you are set to shut down the airport if they develop the road systems. Here we are facing a major environmental challenge – we could extend some airports and get larger planes and get fewer departures. I hope you will be willing to look at this when you are going to submit the plans. With regard to the challenges ahead in order to get goods across from sea to rail, coordination and overall vision are also crucial. When the various modes of transport are to be interconnected, links must be seen and nodes planned. It is true that the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that a much more offensive environmental policy needs to be put in place. We know that we are facing enormous environmental challenges, and we need to have a constructive, concrete and comprehensive debate on how we can help implement different solutions. And we need to find measures that create a development in the right direction. Today, developments are going in the wrong direction. Today’s development in the transport sector is not sustainable, i.e. that we are unable to meet today's needs without destroying the opportunities for future generations to meet their needs. Here the Christian People's Party is committed to the concept of administrative responsibility, and that we must look at the possible coordination solutions. The threat of rapid and large man-made climate change is one of the greatest societal threats we are facing today. If we do nothing about our climate emissions, we will be able to experience significant damage as a result of climate change in the coming decades. Numerous statistics have been provided to show that the transport sector is a nuisance. We need to reverse this trend – not just by adopting individual measures, which may contribute a little, but by thinking holistically and strategically and adopting a series of measures that together make a big difference and turn development in the right direction. That's why today's interpellation is important. We need to put individual measures in context, so that different proposals are not perceived as competing with others. Finally, the Christian People's Party believes that we need to see the seriousness of the situation we are in. The transport sector is today one of the biggest environmental challenges in the world. We need to be aware of the situation and look at overall measures, not just introducing some individual measures into one carrier, while another carrier leads in a completely different direction. We must facilitate changes in travel habits and new means of transport that protect the environment, and efforts must be coordinated. We must simply mobilize and gather: see the whole and promise together!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1076	I will also praise the interpellant, and unlike various others here in the hall, I trust that he is serious and has great desires and views. Environmentally friendly and intelligent transport solutions are at the heart of what we in the Left are concerned about, and then coordination of the opportunities we have to cut emissions and use energy more effectively is particularly important. The transport sector should have a major responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The aim must be to make the environmentally friendly transport solutions attractive and accessible. The interpellant is occupied with high-speed trains, we know. So are we in the left. The left is very pleased that a comprehensive high-speed network has now been explored in Norway. High-speed trains are comfortable, they compete with planes at travel time, and they are, as has been said, environmentally friendly. It is therefore a little strange that government parties have already concluded that the polluting air traffic will increase, and that it will therefore be necessary to develop a third runway on the Gardermoen. And so this is a government that also sits in SV. The interpellant points out that the core network investigation of the Railway Works and Avinor does not describe a phase-in of high-speed trains. Nor does the Stemnet investigation make it to the State Road Administration. High-speed trains will also compete with car traffic, so this perspective is also relevant in that context. The left is of the opinion that Norway should be as ambitious as the EU countries. The study now being carried out forms the basis for determining these ambitions. Of course, this must be part of the work on the national transport plan. However, it is the case that a high-speed train bet needs to be illuminated from several angles. It is essentially the business economic potential that is now being explored. The left considers that high-speed trains also have other positive effects on society. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the fact that, in the treatment of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the best decision-making basis for the construction of high-speed rail systems in Norway must be available. Such a basis for decision must therefore cover the total social economy of the projects. Therefore, it is important that further investigation work describes issues related to, for example:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t effects of changing travel patterns, including road safety, road wear and environmental impacts of shorter travel times, including possible impacts on the labour market and pressures in urban areas related to business needs for efficient and fast freight transport; It is only in this way that we can actually describe the societal potential we have in developing a high-speed network in Norway. The left also wants the environmental perspective to be included in several aspects of the roll-out of NTP. Closer environmental coordination is also relevant in relation to road traffic. This applies in particular to urban areas. There was concern among many when the government chose to cut off the reward scheme for public transport. If the Government is to keep its promises, it is essential that we step up the reward scheme for public transport in the urban areas. Many can use public transport, but not all. Then it is important that the government uses the opportunity to make climate-friendly biofuels available to people locally. This can be an important contribution towards reducing emissions from road traffic. The left also wants a plan to phase eco-friendly gas ferries through, inter alia. use of ferry concessions. We believe that this action plan should be included as a basis for work on the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. It was disappointing that the majority did not want to support this opposition proposal. The left was in favour of the Minister of Transport's commitment to rail. The main lines of the budget were good, and it is also gratifying that the Minister for Transport has spent a lot of time and energy putting in place the train link to Stockholm. However, it is difficult to understand that the Minister for Transport does not at the same time want to explore the possibilities of high-speed rail between Oslo and Stockholm, while exploring a number of other sections. The left has faith in strengthening the train link with Sweden. Therefore, the Left wants the Oslo–Stockholm route to be investigated for high-speed. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister for Transport whether she thinks this is a good idea. Finally, I want to thank the interpellant again, and I hope this is the beginning of an important process, which the Left would like to join in further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1112	I'm going to join all those who have thanked Halleraker for clearing up this important issue. But it is a very challenging and demanding task to coordinate the transport sectors in a better way than what we are doing now. Of course, it is a potential to do so, and it is particularly important, as many have pointed out, that we are happy to be able to reduce climate change emissions and pollution from the transport sector. I was myself involved and delivered the three previous sector plans. The Stortinget wanted a common plan to see the different transport sectors in context. The first time it was done, we actually delivered three separate sector plans, and then one fourth, which in a way was responsible for coordination. After that, I have the impression that the transport sectors have become more and more daunting each other. It's not that there's a superimposed idea of what to focus on in the different transport sectors in a context now. If we read the introduction to NTP, which we rarely do, we see that this is exactly what has happened. There's a different strategy, which the Council of State was in. It is about road safety, it is about districts, it is about the environment, it is about accessibility. Then there is always an emphasis on the different strategies and coordination between them, for one cannot focus on one thing 100 pst. and not the others. If we are to move forward with such coordination and such a longer-term strategic thinking, it not only demands that our planning documents be improved, but above all demands that we be politicians. Because I rarely feel that we have such a discussion, even if maybe the plan invites you to. The first big business representatives, like everyone else who opens either a budget or a transport plan, are looking for their own concrete projects in their own country. So if we're going to be happy to focus on what we now think is important for the future climate, for example. – because one of the objectives is to reduce these rather dramatic emissions that the transport sector is facing – we may also have to accept that the projects that we have been fighting for and burning for over many, many years as social politicians cannot be realised. There must be a connection between that superior thinking and strategy and emphasis and the concrete projects, and that is why I say that this is very demanding, not only with regard to the plan document, but also with regard to ourselves as politicians. Because we're going to get to the climate targets on the transport side too – it's a very important, good job going on with the sector-wide climate plans, where, of course, the transport sector also has major challenges, including the interpellant – we need to get rid of the road sector and the car sector and see: what can we do to reduce emissions? We can use other fuels, make greater demands on automotive technology, and if we had been a little bit tougher in that area and the requirements had come there, I actually believe that the car manufacturers had delivered a much better technology for cleaning. We may need to have a national bike strategy, we need to bet a lot more on walking and cycling roads, especially in cities, as an alternative to car traffic, and at the same time we need to turn our efforts a lot more towards rail and other public transport. I have to join in what Langeland was in, that there's kind of a new side of the Right we see, if Halleraker is then representative of the Right in his focus on the Railway. So I have to ask, and I hope this is a little bit more than talking, because the thing is that when we took over now, we were facing the railway either getting older, or we had to bet in a completely different way. We have. So it didn't do the right. They prioritised completely other things in the government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1123	Speaking of bets – the President may state that Norway has taken its first gold medal in Japan just now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1126	I assume it's a unanimous wish that it won't be the last one. Some views of the Progress Party: We believe that the work on the national transport plan needs to be renewed. The Progress Party believes that there is a need for better coordination between sectors in terms of transport costs, energy consumption and the environment. The Progress Party believes that transport statistics need to be improved so that no transport sectors or any means of transport can blush to the benefit of the environment. We see it as the interpellant takes up two relationships. One is the renewal of NTP work, and the other is a specific desire to do something about the development of high-speed rail. In the bridge between these two, there's a question to the Right. It's whether the Right believes to prioritize funds from the road to the track. Based on the two columns from the interpellation, it's a natural question and a reflection to do. The Party wishes to renew its planning work on the national transport plan. It has become a heavy, circumstantial process — with a strong and strongly conservative state body, the Road Directorate, in a strong leadership position through the secretariat function for the planning work. At the latest in the 2007 Transport Budget, the Progress Party addressed this, not only through the comment made by the representative Sandberg, but also through proposals for renewal, simplification and more efficient work on the national transport plan. We did not receive any support from any other parties, nor from the Right Party. When the interpellant indicates that the Railway Agency and Avinor have submitted long-term plans towards 2040, etc., there is no significant part to that description. The State Road Service has also put forward long-term plans towards 2040. All the transport modes have done it. To quote the Council of State – and I hope it is right: it is important to raise your eyes quite far ahead. A 30-year plan is important. She said this in connection with the tribal road investigation to the State Road Administration. The investments we're making in the roads today are going to last for decades. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. It is therefore important that when issues of stronger coordination are discussed, the future scenarios of the road network must also be included in an overall assessment, including in terms of energy consumption and environmental perspectives. For the Progress Party, this is obvious, and it is important. A four-field highway between Drammen and Odda will allow people to meet in Telemark with driving time of less than two hours from both east and west. There may be an alternative both to aeroplanes and to high-speed rail, with effective roads which are also green roads, roads with good capacity and safe driving conditions, roads with lower energy consumption, lower emissions, reduced driving distance and reduced elevation climb. Green roads are roads with fewer accidents. High-speed rail is very energy-intensive. Spain is often used as a reference country for such trains. The AVE train, which runs at 300 km an hour between Madrid and Seville, uses the same amount of electricity measured in kWh as a city of 25 000 inhabitants – 25 000 inhabitants, President! When you, like the Council of State, answer – as to my question no. 397 for 2006-2007 – measuring greenhouse gas emissions ‘where emissions occur’, fortunately it does not matter whether we have a power deficit and import electricity produced in a polluting way in other countries, because the power becomes completely clean when it is used for the propulsion of high-speed rail in Norway. The conclusion in relation to the use of such trains in the United Kingdom, on the other hand – to take another example – is completely different, as electricity is produced in a polluting way. So the studies from at least scientific teams in the United Kingdom on a possible high-speed route between London and Edinburgh show that high-speed rail loses — both on energy use and emissions in the fight against normal electric trains, against cars and against diesel-powered trains. We believe it is important that we get a transport statistics that provide more accurate data on energy consumption and environmental emissions, thereby also providing a better and more accurate basis for good and proper priorities in the national transport plan. We believe that we need a renewal in the work of the National Transport Plan, and we hope from what has been said by several parties here, that the next time we come up with concrete comments and suggestions for such renewal, we get support. We did not get that when we discussed the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1147	I think this was a positive and constructive debate by the politicians in the Chamber. I think we got constructive input and far on the way to support innovation. I must say that I am a little surprised that the Council of State, rather than responding to the issues I am discussing today, finds reason to ask myself about individual projects in a large transport context. It shows to me that neither she nor the representative of Langeland have understood what the question really was about. It's precisely when we've got the individual scenarios, with the outcomes that we can then evaluate against each other, that we can go in and say that, of course, we support that because of it, and not because we have some political history associated with a carrier. I want to know the consequences of the choices we are going to make in the future. I think that is a healthy attitude towards such a large and expensive area as transport and transport. And then the Right will know how to answer the challenges that lie in the future. We've been doing that for decades, and we're going to keep doing that. I would like to comment in particular on the contributions of the two largest parties in the Chamber, the Labour Party and the Advance Party. I must say at once that the proposal that was referred to by the Progress Party was very positive. I have to admit that it was in my work with the strategy papers from the transport modes that I kind of saw the light. It was around Christmastime when we sat and prepared the answer to the documents. This was also the state council that they had done this for the first time and made it transparent. I guess that's good. But there was nothing in the process that weighed the various carriers up against each other, and that is what I claim is missing. That's why I think the signal that came from the Workers' Party was very positive, which could clearly indicate that you wanted to improve this planning process in the future, as I had in mind in this interpellation. So I hope that happens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1160	As the Council of State rises, the President may declare that gold medal no. 2 is drawn in OL.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1163	With such good messages, this was an even better debate than it would otherwise have been, but I would like to stress that it has been a good debate on an important issue. It's been good stuff, and I've noted diligently to take with me the recordings that have come, in the work on. I would also like to stress that at every meeting I have now had with the county councils, I have clearly underlined the ambition of the government to make a national transport plan a transport plan and to see the transport sector in context. We haven't closed it before. It has been somewhat better, but the ability to take the political debates across is for the Government to facilitate, but it is also for the county councils, which are an important part of this, and in turn for the Stortinget. We should do what we can to help us get the good debates across the different sectors of transport. It is important for environmental reasons, but of course it is also important for us to be able to spend our taxpayers' money where we get the most back – when it concerns both the environment, road safety, accessibility, the organisation of people with reduced mobility, and all the other target formulations contained in the national transport plan, which the Stortinget will, of course, have to discuss. When it comes to my questions, they weren't so carefully considered. But when I sat in the hall and listened to Halleraker’s post – not on the main post of the interpellation itself, but on elements in the post – I had to do some reflections based on what was said. Then there must be a will behind doing repriorities. That's what my question went on. I think it is highly relevant to today's debate, because if one is unwilling to give priority across, it has no intention of facilitating it. Many have commented on the Gardermo and a third runway, and so I must have a little reflection about it. It is important for me to say that the Government has not decided whether to build a third runway. What I have said, and I want to initiate a debate on to the Government, is that we should give priority to the area that should be reserved, whether it be a third runway in 15 to 20 years, or when it has to be in time. This means that important areas around the Gardermo can be released to nutritious areas, because today we bind large areas around the Gardermo because it can be relevant with a third runway. I believe that, as a responsible government, we need to discuss and take over. So, in the future, it will show if it becomes relevant – and it will not be up to this government to decide about it. It'll be a government a while ahead of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1177	That is when the debate is on case No. Three over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1195	Dear child has many names. Norway has had a whole new generation of kids. Some people call them two-cultural. Others call them alien cultural. Or no, was it maybe remote cultural? Pneumonia immigrants? Children of immigrants? Children with a minority background? In the daycare of May 17th in the country's capital, there are no longer just crests, but the Norwegian flag is worn and the national anthem is sung by all kinds of international faces. We're going to be proud of that and excited about it. It makes the city an exciting place to be. Only at Tøen school in Oslo has over 90 pst. by the students a different ethnic background. It's ramadan, not Christmas. A few years ago, Mohammed was second-hand among the most used first names of newborn boys in Oslo. According to the Central Statistical Office, there are more than 125 languages in the Oslo schools. School is the area of society where inclusion opportunities can be greatest. Here the director's daughter meets the worker's son. Christians, Muslims, atheists and humane cubs play side by side. In the modern common school we have learned about Muslim ramadan celebrations, traditional Norwegian Christmas trees and Jewish Hanukkah dinners. That's good. At a time when we talk a lot about integration, demands, pressure and compulsory Norwegian training courses – carrot and whip – it is good that we have places where the inclusion can happen through learning in a natural and free way. We have to have more arenas for that, and here the school is important. At the same time, we face challenging challenges. It is a fact that children with a minority background come from their homes with worse growing conditions than the average in the majority society. Many of the minority children meet at school as six-year-olds without or with poor Norwegian skills. Training needs are often high, as parents do not have the resources and skills to assist. We also know that many of the parents are illiterate. Modern research also shows that children who are verbally weaker than other children are more prone to violence than others. The sum of this means that many immigrant children are more at risk of developing trends to start criminal careers at an early age. We know that a large percentage of dropouts in high school are young boys with immigrant backgrounds. What else can be done to address these challenges than to start at school itself, at elementary school level? We've also heard about schoolchildren who don't come back after a summer vacation in their parents' home country. We know that many minority parents are strongly absent in their own school days. It is unfortunately a bad truth that many do not attend parents' meetings and conference hours. Swimming, camp and gymnastics are unfortunately the necessities of many immigrant girls being excluded from today. Child protection, which often cooperates with school, is seen by many parents with a minority background as a foreign institution and is perceived as the big, ugly wolf to take from them the kids. Living in the field of tension between many immigrant parents' expectations about conservative traditionalism and the demands of the majority society for modern integration requires strong backs. What kind of speakers do these children have today? We who are responsible politicians have a responsibility for giving these kids priority and not falling out. We must dare to make some choices for those who experience care failure. We have to ask ourselves, where are the boundaries of parental authority in relation to children's rights? And what do we do when a strong minority of Norwegian children do not find room in our welfare society and fall into the ordinary public services we have today? One thing is certain: these children have more than any other children need adults, good role models. The school’s teacher’s loss today should reflect the compound student mass. Teachers with minority backgrounds, I think, will make the school more inclusive, strengthen the famous school-home cooperation, of which the social-democratic government is very concerned, reduce suspicion, scepticism and make the prevention work child protection, police and other agencies do today, for such agencies are actually met with scepticism among many parents with minority backgrounds. We know that lack of language skills is a barrier to school and child protection. It will be less if we have more teachers with a minority background. We know that we have many Somali mothers who are single mothers and who have a group of six to eight. We know that many of them will need a father figure. We know that preschool teachers or teachers are the most important adult for very many children – except mother and father. The Norwegian school today has too few two-cultural teachers. One of the main reasons for this is that very many minors in the academic age unfortunately do not apply to the higher education institutions. That's pretty interesting. It doesn't hold that they don't find it attractive enough. In general, we know that minority youth unfortunately opts for social disciplines such as the child protection study, the Police College, and teacher and pre-school education in favour of engineering colleges, law school and medical studies. Real science is particularly popular to study among minority young people. It's becoming a problem. This can have cultural reasons. Many parents with a minority background have grown up in a culture where institutions such as child protection, social services and orphanages do not exist. Others have heard stories about corrupt policemen who do not protect the victims. And the teaching profession is unfortunately not linked to authority and status. However, being a doctor, an engineer or a lawyer is linked to a higher social class, good pay and status. We know that the institutions I've mentioned are aliens in a lot of these countries. It's an unfortunate culture we have to do something about -- especially when it grows up a whole generation in Norway that needs a multicultural child protection service, which needs a multicultural school, and which needs a multicultural school health service and a multicultural police mission. What will the Council of State do to motivate minority youth in Norway to choose teacher and pre-school education, high school police and other social education lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1223	You have to be extremely careful to correct the President, but there was the Olympics in Sapporo in 1972. I certainly mean to remember that Pál Tyldum went into gold for five miles. At least it was Tyldum that climbed the Norwegian skier in 1972. ‘OL’ was, of course, a ‘slip of the tongue’, but it is a pleasure that Norway takes gold in Sapporo once again. Education is essential for success in the labour market. It is therefore gratifying that, in its mention of minority-speaking youth in Norwegian education, the statistical central agency asks itself the question: Do we see a future success story? In the autumn of 2005, the statistics of the SSB show that more than 13 000 students with a non-Western background were registered at Norwegian universities and colleges. It's going to be 6 pst. by the students. All young people between the ages of 19 and 24 take about 30 pst. higher education. The corresponding numbers for non-Western descendants are 33 pst. Women are particularly well represented. For non-Western first-generation immigrants, unfortunately, the numbers are much lower, only 18 pst. As the representative Khan points out, there are some study offers that minority speakers choose to a greater extent. The SSB's figures show that the most popular disciplines, as said, are science and technology, health and social sciences and economic and administrative subjects. A clear minority of non-Western students choose to take teacher training and police training. Among men in particular, teacher training is not popular. However, there has been a improvement in the recruitment of pre-school teachers in recent years. The SSB figures show that we need to work actively to strengthen the recruitment of teacher training among minority speakers. Such teachers are positive role models for children and students. In addition, through their cultural background and multilingualism, they will be able to make training and education richer. On 12 February, the Ministry launched the Equal Training Strategy Plan in practice! The aim of the plan is better learning and greater participation of linguistic minorities in kindergarten, school and education. Recruitment of minority language students to higher education, and in particular to the teaching profession, are important issues in this. I am therefore very pleased with this opportunity to discuss this issue in Stortinget, and that this debate is also addressed here, for which the representative of Khan is to have great honor and honour. Many and complex measures are needed to improve the attractiveness of understanding. In addition, I would like to point out more general recruitment work in higher education aimed at minority language, recruitment specifically for teacher training, and finally some measures in initial training. It is important to continue recruiting students with a migrant background to a wide range of higher education. It requires greater efforts in guidance and information in the form of cooperation with secondary schools. Also through cooperation with NAV, adult immigrants will be able to gain knowledge of both study opportunities, admissions based on real skills and, in particular, study funding. Several universities and colleges are engaged in targeted information and motivation work for the success of minority language students. Work on the dissemination of experience, such as: The Oslo College has had a special responsibility for it, now part of the National Centre for Multicultural Training. Recruitment and prevention of the absence of minority language students shall continue. Experience with good models will continue to spread to other universities and universities. This is one of the measures of the plan of equivalent training in practice. The University of Oslo started four years ago the project Minorities in Focus in Akademia. There is work here to increase the number of students with a minority background, to facilitate a multicultural study environment, to set up a study offer focusing on multicultural conditions in Norway and to get more minority language students out in the workplace. In 2006, the project cooperates with five secondary schools and an adult training centre to pursue motivational and recruitment activities. The Oslo College has more than 1,300 students with a migrant background. They have extensive experience in recruitment, including: cooperation with minority communities, through networks and contacts with immigrant organisations and student associations. Student ambassadors with a migrant background are now part of the ordinary student corps at the university, who attend school visits and stand at educational fairs, etc. The advisory service also plays an important role in the selection of studies. This is mentioned in detail in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, which is now being treated here in the United Kingdom. Of course, it is important that the advisers have knowledge and competence about the group they are to guide. In this context, recruitment to the teaching profession and other professions in which minority speakers are underrepresented should be particularly relevant. In the strategy for developing skills in initial training for 2005–08, consultants have been identified as a priority group in relation to continuing training. The Directorate-General for Education has published guidance documents on secondary education and educational and vocational choices for young immigrants and their parents. The booklets are simple and informative and can be found in 13 languages in addition to Norwegian. In the case of concrete measures aimed at teacher training, a grant scheme is in place for minority language teachers working in school without formal qualifications or who have foreign teacher training and need additional training. This is also an action in the Strategy Plan. So far, approx. 200 received a scholarship. Nine colleges also cooperate in providing a three-year education for native language teachers and bilingual assistants who need to complete their education in order to gain their teaching skills. This is also an action in the Strategy Plan. The study is structured in such a way that students with a year’s supplementary study can gain general teacher competence. In 2005, it was about the same. 350 who had started different parts of this study offer. In kindergartens too, many people with immigrant backgrounds work as assistants or maternal trainers. It is a goal that more people with immigrant background become rulers and educational leaders in kindergartens. Plans are being made for flexible pre-school teacher training for minority speakers. An example of a college that has worked on recruiting minority speakers is Queen Maud's Memory in Trondheim. A low level of education among pre-school students with a multicultural background led the university to start a guidance course. The measure has contributed to a clear increase in the number of pre-school students with a multicultural background. The most important arrangement has been to offer the study in part-time, as many of these students want to work alongside the studies. In addition, the students have been offered special arrangements in all subjects. They have also been offered guidance and extra follow-up directly after regular education. In addition to strengthening recruitment in higher education and training for teachers in particular, it is important to work long-term in kindergarten and in primary education. Good language training is the key to succeeding in higher education and in the workplace. Therefore, a great many of the actions in the Strategy Plan are equivalent to training in practice! targeted precisely at improving language skills and school performance. The Strategy Plan contains 38 concrete actions. As I said, language training is very central. Early efforts are important, as the Government has also highlighted in St.meld. No 16th@item: We therefore have measures for children in kindergarten, for children who do not go to kindergarten, and for children in primary school. The strategy introduces several measures to improve Norwegian education in schools. Norwegian education for minority students has not been good enough, and the Norwegian curriculum as a second language has not worked after the intention. There are many examples that students have been misplaced in this Norwegian education and that their Norwegian skills have been underestimated. Studies show that many students have followed the curriculum throughout school and never got into ordinary education. At the start of the school in the autumn of 2007, the Ministry will therefore introduce a completely new curriculum in Norwegian for minority language students called Basic Norwegian. The new curriculum must be level-based. This means that the student will be taught according to his Norwegian level, not according to age, as it is today. It is an objective that these students should quickly enter normal Norwegian education. The Ministry therefore develops a standardised screening device to make it easy to determine when individual students are ready to participate in normal Norwegian education. We will also prepare information in the form of guidance material and follow-up training offers for teachers who will be teaching in Norwegian. Equal training in practice! shall be effective in 2009. I have great expectations that it can help us better manage the resources of minority children and young people. The strategy addresses the theme of recruitment of minority language students, in particular the teaching profession, as the representative Khan is one of several important issues addressed. The measures outlined in the strategy require broad cooperation between health centres, kindergartens, schools, homes, higher education institutions and, in particular, decision-makers at all levels. I hope we can all cooperate well in the further work and share experiences and good ideas, in order to achieve the objectives that the representative addresses in his interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1267	Thank you very much for a very informative and informative answer. I have registered that the Council of State is very concerned that the Norwegian school is far too feminine. So it's going to make it more colorful, just so that's said. I'm very pleased with what the Council of State came along. I think it is very legitimate to work with grant schemes, and that there are strategic plans to motivate more people with minority backgrounds to choose alternative courses than they traditionally choose today. Then I want to challenge the Council of State on a point of view and ask if the Council of State has made some reflections about one thing. One thing is that we should get more people with minority backgrounds to do things other than just drive buses, trams and taxis and to be doctors or medical students. One of the objectives of this interpellation is to show that it is important that we have people with a minority background evenly across all walks of life in Norway. It's a matter of principle, an important matter in itself. But then I have a question, and that's: does the Council believe that e.g. a Tamil-Norwegian teacher will give a good signal effect to Aunt Gunda from Frogner, who needs to know that her nephew, who has almost never been away in any minorities, is well cared for by a capable adult, regardless of where this adult comes from? It's probably not so stupid that the big cities of Norway get policemen and women in all colors, who provide civil security, when almost all we hear about minority youth in the newspapers is that they're re-criminals and child terrorists. I dream that in Oslo we will have streets like in London, where we have Muslim women wearing hijab, who are political winners, because this is a reality in London today. We know that very many older ethnic Norwegian women are being rescued and taking an extra roof around their purse when they see young boys with minority backgrounds. Having such measures will mean much more than all the anti-racist campaigns and demonstrations held annually, and the information campaigns that we politicians adopt here at Stortinget. Then I will mention Gran School and Bjølsen School as two good examples, which have bilingual teachers, which have led more girls to participate in swimming lessons, more immigrant children to camp school, and where outreach activities in the homes are carried out in order for parents to attend parental meetings. There are two schools that other schools in Norway should learn from.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1280	I agree with all of Khan's representatives. When we launched this strategy last week, we were at Åsen School in Lørenskog – one of many Norwegian schools that has a large proportion of foreign-language students. It's a school that's done an amazing job over the years. The representative mentions two other schools that have done a great job, but fortunately, we gradually have a lot of good examples of schools that are working with what is really the key to success, the language. Language is the key to success in social and work life and in school, not least. This applies to minority-speaking children who are ethnically Norwegian children. Ethnic Norwegian children who cannot Norwegian well enough will also fail in school. It's also an experience to bring along, how infinitely important language is as a tool for mastering life, mastering the challenges that life and school give. I think, just like the representative Khan, that it would have been an enrichment for Aunt Gunda on Frogner and her nephew to have minority language teachers in school. To put it correctly, Norway has not been multicultural for a very long time. No further back than my childhood, there was hardly anyone else than Norwegian and Swedish to see in Norway and some other tourist who came from England. So only in my relatively short life has Norway undergone a metamorphosis of development, in a positive sense, by becoming a colorful country, as the representative Khan also describes it. That's how we want it. That means, of course, that our goal, through the work we do in my department and through the strategy plan, is to have minority language teachers in school, minority language teachers, minority language teachers in all the professions I am responsible for, but also in many, many other professions, because role models here are absolutely crucial. That is why the representative’s concern is so infinitely important, that one in the important education leading up to this – both pre-school teacher training, teacher training and other important education within it – is able to recruit widely and also minority languages. Fortunately, there are some signs of improvement. I also think it is very important, as the representative is concerned, that we have a vigilance and a care in this regard. Not least the fact that the country's National Assembly is discussing these kinds of questions in plenary is in itself a very important signal that we as a society want such a development. We welcome the fact that more people are taking training as teachers. We're going to do what we can to facilitate economic or other instruments, so Aunt Gunda sees more and more that there are minority language teachers teaching her nephews just as well as an ethnic Norwegian teacher would have done. Of course, the starting point is that we must not waste the talents we have. Norway is full of talents that do not get their talent, simply because there are some codes that do not facilitate them, for example: the possibility of taking general or pre-school teacher training. We need everyone. This interpellation is an important element of a strategy for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1295	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important theme – all the honors. The school shall be a meeting place — a place for inclusion, exchange of shared experience and a place for the acquisition of knowledge. The school shall be for everyone, regardless of religion, sexual orientation, family relationships, skin color and economy. But then everyone must also feel welcome. Optimum care must be taken of the individual’s needs. The school shall prepare the students for the life that awaits, prepare to meet society and become an active citizen of society. One of the school's biggest challenges today is to balance social differences. I am pleased that the Government has put this on the agenda, and before Christmas St.meld. No 16,... and no one was left standing. Early effort for lifelong learning. The communication clearly shows a distinction between minority-speaking and majority-speaking. It's about whether you choose higher education. It's about grades, whether you get a place to learn, a place to enjoy well-being, and how you look at school. In the first four areas, it is clear that minority speakers choose higher education to a lesser extent and have on average lower grades. Minority-speaking boys are the group that comes out the worst when it comes to learning places. Minority-speaking students thrive somewhat worse than other students, but when it comes to how to look at school, minority-speaking students and their parents have a more positive view of school and school than majority-speaking people have. Minority-speaking students, despite low-educated parents, have high educational ambitions. In relation to what can be done to recruit more minority speakers for teacher training, I think the counselling service is essential. We have one too bad counselling service today. The choices you make when you're 18 years old determine your career. Therefore, we need qualified advisors to guide young people on the right path based on qualities and interests. Teachers with a minority background in school are important for many reasons. Mother tongue skills will be more and more important in the globalised world in which language skills become more and more important, but also because being able to speak their native language will be important for the sense of belonging. Teachers with a minority background will be able to help immigrant children improve Norwegian knowledge. Combating racism is one of society’s most important tasks — in cooperation with schools. Different teachers with different backgrounds will be an important intermediate in this big task. But in the question of the interpellant, I think we need to look at integration in a broader perspective. Cultural understanding and cultural competence are important for teachers. More minority speakers in school will make understanding easier. The head of the FUG, the parental committee at primary school, Loveleen Brenna, told a story about a teacher at a high school and the teacher's experience with minority speakers. The teacher had reacted strongly to an Indian girl’s parents calling her ‘ei cow’. But in India, the cow is sacred. ‘Ku’ is a pet name, in the same line as ‘lam’ and ‘pusekat’ in Norway. This is an example of the importance of cultural understanding and that minority language teachers can be the key to this kind of misunderstanding. As the interpellant mentioned in the article, as well as the Council of State, close school-home cooperation is important both for minority-language pupils and for majority-language students. Here, parents are made to understand what school is and what the school's task is. Afternoon school for parents has been tried out at Storhamar school. The school arranges afternoon school for parents three times at school. Here parents get insights into teacher plans and what school demands of parents. Vahl school here in Oslo has several minority language staff, some with an approved vocational education and others who attend higher education in order to obtain recognition of education in Norway. The University of Oslo offers to native language teachers, i.e. bilingual teachers who want to study alongside the job. This is a great offer, which should definitely be put forward further. A growing group of adults lack the right to secondary education. These are those born after 1978 and who have not completed a secondary education or who have fallen away in the course of their studies. In particular, this applies to immigrants born after 1972 but who came too late to Norway to be able to avail themselves of juvenile law. In the Storing Message, this issue is addressed. I hope and believe that the introduction of the right to secondary education for adults over 25 years of age will lead to more immigrants without secondary education starting training and continuing to take on higher education – which will be further worked on by the Government and also on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1321	I want to give honor to the interpellant on behalf of SV to address a very important issue. The problem is kind of important no matter what you look at it. She is important from the stand to the school, from the stand to the students, and from the stand to the minority, which is a very varied but nevertheless – in the statistics at least – a social group. It's a problem issue that's important to the whole community. It's a challenge to get more minority-speaking people into the professions that the interpellant pointed to. I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good answer, which shows that the Government is paying attention to the problem and is actively working on it. Now we are on the education committee and working with St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 on early efforts for lifelong learning,... and no one was left, as it is called. This message points to the fact that, despite the fact that there has been a long political goal, the education system is unable to cope with and contribute to smoothing out social differences. On the contrary, social differences are reproduced. We can't use the education system to a large enough extent as an instrument against it, despite the fact that one can do it in many other countries to which we otherwise like to compare. This message shows, for example: that there is a rather strong link between the educational background of your parents and their tendency to choose higher education. It is that if your parents have higher education, you are more likely to do so yourself. It is also true that if your parents have higher education, you are more likely to choose higher education than higher education. Those who have parents without higher education but still choose higher education, prefer higher education rather than university education. Then it is interesting, as the interpellant pointed out, that minority youth – if I can get to call them that, dear children have many names – or young people with a minority language background show their own trends in relation to the youth group in general. So minority youth is more likely to choose mathematical science if they choose higher education. It's a very interesting move. In many ways, I believe that the big community will take over what kind of signal this is. I think that this poses three challenges. We have a challenge in trying to even out the starting point with who chooses higher education, and who doesn't. I don't mean that everyone should get higher education, and not that everyone should learn as much, but that a more equalizing of differences between social groups compared to who knows what. There are a lot of measures in the main message, and we will come back to that on a later occasion. Then we have a challenge as a society with a view to smoothing out the propensity for higher education or not according to the level of education that individual parents have. I think the advisory service is one of the most important measures here. It pointed to the Council of State in its article, and it pointed to the interpellant in its article. I believe that we have an effective and effective tool if we intend to strengthen the advisory service to a greater extent. Then it's this little paradox that minority youth to a greater extent well mathematically-natural science subjects. There is not a problem. It's very nice that they do it. We need that competence very much. But the problem is that there are not enough people who choose the occupations that the interpellant pointed to, and from my point of view, right now with regard to general and pre-school teacher education, there are too few with minority language backgrounds who choose this type of education. I'm glad that the Government has developed a strategy plan, and I'm glad that a search for different kinds of positive incentives that can make this more attractive to this youth. But I also believe that a significant part of this is a status highlight of these types of occupation. Actually, I think that the message we get from minority youth is: these jobs don't have high enough status, we're looking where we have the best prospects. It's not an unnatural choice, but I think it's the signal we get from the statistical differences that we see. We all have a job to do when it comes to helping raise the status of these incredibly important jobs in a very large integration context. Then an interpellation and a debate on this in Stortinget is a small step on the way. I'd like to thank the interpellant for having a bit of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1344	I agree with the interpellant that there is a need to get more teachers with a migrant background into school. These are important not only as positive role models for students, but also, I think, in order to take advantage of that cultural background, that language competence, and not least the global perspective that minority speakers can contribute to Norwegian school. The Interpellation is a follow-up to the Government’s ‘Action Plan for Implementing and Inclusion of the Immigrant Population’ on inclusion targets, set out in the 2007 budget, and the Strategy Plan. One of the objectives here is to raise the proportion of employees with a minority background in primary and secondary education. To solve the problem that the interpellant is dealing with, I think we also need to take some steps back to look at some reasons and some contexts. In the interpellation, it says: ‘More minority children come from their homes with worse growing conditions than the average in the majority society. The absence of immigrant parents’ participation in their own children’s school days, low Norwegian skills, high educational needs and trends towards starting up a criminal career are challenges today’s multicultural school encounters. These children need good adult role models. The teacher’s staff should reflect the compound student mass.’» Perhaps the question we're going to ask is, what is it that children of minorities should choose differently from their parents, with their expectations and dreams, in order to get better growth conditions in their own homes? What about the role of parents and home for the choice of the child? Are we right when the answer to poor growth conditions, the absence of immigrant parents’ participation in their own children’s school days is that we need to take new measures in school? I think it's too easy to categorize your parents as a poor resource, and then we give them up a little bit. Should we not instead take action against parents? Is it true that the so - called poor parents are hopeless cases that cannot be dealt with? I think we have to start focusing completely differently. The starting point should be a good home-school collaboration that can compensate for the inequalities in the pupils’ home background. Research shows that all parents, regardless of background and education, can contribute positively to children’s motivation and learning outcomes. All parents can play a central and active role in children’s learning. Parents’ interest in the child’s training is much more important than their parents’ understanding of what the child is learning. We have to pass that on. You are a resource for your children, regardless of your own level of learning. From this point of view, we do not discharge parents' responsibilities on the basis of categorisation, but instead we focus on how we can manage to develop a good home-school collaboration to compensate for the inequalities that are initially there. We need to focus even more on developing good home-school cooperation and empowering all parents to support, motivate and encourage their children. If all the strengths of the weakest students are added to school time, school and their responsibilities, this social cohesion does not guarantee — perhaps on the contrary, in recent years. Parents who are aware of children’s education will continue to stimulate their children, while those who themselves have little education and do not see the value of schooling will more easily leave homework and schoolwork to the school and its arena, and thus contribute to, research, to slow down the child’s learning. Awareness of the role of home, both at school and at parents, empowerment of all parents, and knowledge of the benefits of good cooperation between home and school could lead to a greater degree of social cohesion. One measure may be to strengthen the competence of a genuine and meaningful home-school collaboration in teacher training and in teacher retraining. I believe that minority models in school work best if they interact with the child’s home. Parents are the most important role models. Thus, parents' attitude towards school will also be crucial as to whether a student will start a teacher's education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1368	What we are discussing here in practice is the school in Oslo. It is the place in Norway that has the largest school system, the place in Norway where 35 pst. students have a linguistic minority background. I go into that school, I want to go without going into the statistics, but just based on my wanderings, find students with a minority background who on the one hand are among the very best, and on the other hand very many of those that the representative Saera Khan has described in his post. Then there are basically two issues. One is, as we have been told by the Council of State, that among the very best, there is a very high proportion of people taking higher education. It is slightly higher than the average in the Norwegian population. Then we should sit down and ask the question: what is it that some more of these actually choose the professions in which the representative is engaged? I'm going to focus especially on the teaching profession. Something I've learned. I've been to the motivational seminar of Pakistani Student Communities year after year and have seen how to present role models. It's quite obvious when you're sitting there, that people are weighing on status. It makes sense there, like anywhere else in life. I think you have a cultural ballast. You come with a ballast from a country that is poor, and there needs to be someone who doesn't explain why real science is important. For example, in a very rich Norway, one has to explain. Young girls who are gifted, why real science is important. But we've learned from Camilla Schreiner's research that if we can tell these young girls that the real subjects make sense, we'll be able to recruit them in areas where we can't do it today. I would encourage the Council of State to examine more among those who choose higher education, what is needed to motivate more of them to, for example. to enter the teaching profession. I want to focus on that, because it's especially important. Part of it could be to take the excellent examples that the Council of State referred to, from the Oslo High School or elsewhere, and decide to go after completely clear and concrete recruitment courses. I allow myself to use myself as an example. A legitimate woman named Lillian Bye, principal of social school in Trondheim, looked at me a few decades ago and said, "Hey, Odd Einar, you're going to be a high school lecturer. It was the Norwegian version of ‘Uncle Sam wants you’. It was very clear. The lady gave a cash reason, I trusted it and have never regretted it. I've met principals at schools in Oslo who have many of these that belong to the very best. I've asked, have you ever told any of your good students that we would like to have you back in the teacher group? I get the answer that no, they haven't actually done that. I believe that by sitting down and discussing recruitment, how we can get more people to join the teaching profession through research and in cooperation with those who have the motivational seminars, you will get answers – in combination with the excellent actions outlined by the Council of State, among others. based on the competence built up by the University of Oslo, but also by the University of Oslo. I also believe that there will be examples in a dialogue with Oslo School. There is no doubt that this school system is producing extremely good results. Some of my experiences are dramatic improvements in school-home co-operation in many of the urban areas that have minority shareholdings. From being almost absent, someone has suddenly begun to bet. Where you've invested over time, something happens. Something happens in the consciousness of parents. They don't feel like outside. There's something happening in the consciousness between school, parents and children. Taking the best examples I think is a very good point. It's enough that those who labor are struggling because they don't get the language skills with them early. Then we are at the other end of this, namely how we can test the language skills and provide a ballast in life at an early age of four-fifths through health station control, kindergarten and other municipal practical ways. And then we're going to give this to you so that more people can do it. I also want to walk up the Grorud valley, I want to go to Rome school. The school in Rome has a particularly large number of Tamil students. They have a principal who systematically recruits professionals with such a background. I've been in a classroom once and I've seen a professional from India who had top skills in special education, with an ICT system to help a multi-functionally disabled young person with a minority background learn math. It was an unusually successful connection of a good person and the right place. I have also seen in the same school an untraditional principal find a Soviet room with Norwegian-Pakistan background in a reception class. As he said, the lady is so sparklingly good that I have to get her pedagogical education. And then we have a teacher. I believe that by drilling and looking at the practical examples, you will get a contribution to the recruitment that the representative Saera Khan addresses. I fully agree with her that in a diverse society we need more role images, and we need untraditional role images in relation to what we are used to. It is very positive that the debate has been raised. But I'll probably recommend everyone here to go into Oslo School, where there are a lot of good examples that we can draw on, and then there's also a lot of challenges that we have to take seriously, and that the representative described in an excellent way in his article.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1387	From this pulpit, I have once stood there talking about immigration. It's not that many times we've been here talking about a multicultural society, about inclusion and diversity. I think it is very good that the representative Saera Khan has raised this debate, and it deserves attention. It's not random that the interpellant has chosen the school as the starting point, because it's right, as the interpellant says, that the school is the arena in society where the possibility of inclusion is greatest. The kids come to school when they're young. Some also come later when we talk about minority groups. But anyway, where they spend their day, that's where they're going to get the knowledge, that's where they're going to get the knowledge, and that's where they're going to be able to accept the knowledge. It is the knowledge that must be the basis for our success in relation to integration. There are many reasons to worry, and to say that so far we're not getting very lucky out of all that we've done up to now in this field. The 2000 PISA study showed that minority children did much worse than majority students. Recently, I came across an OECD article that also said that minority youth falls out of school to a much greater extent than ethnic Norwegians. I mean, there's a lot of cause for concern. I heard the Council's response and the suggestions he had for action. When it comes to being in a training situation, much can be done better. NAV was mentioned, continued recruitment, targeted information work, and there was much talk about higher education and the plan for equivalent training. The counselling service and study choices are also very important. It's a cross of thought that there are a lot of people who don't get that far, and who fall out long before. We have different immigrant groups, and they're going to have different offers. Some come from cultures where ambition is great, where the prerequisites are good, and where it is quite natural to get into higher education and succeed with it. Then we also have immigrant groups coming from countries where there is a great deal of illiteracy, where the assumptions are much less, and – it is right as the representative Saera Khan describes in his interview – where the children at home do not get the support and follow-up they should have. Here we have to work in different fields. Higher education and recruitment, yes, and not least refresher education among teachers who are already in school is a very important area. But I think it is important that we in the future try to achieve more role models, and that more people go into important professions where they are currently underrepresented, and then we will succeed better in the Norwegian school with minority children. We all know, and we have said it once, that the main basis for good integration is Norwegian education. It's giving children an offer according to abilities and assumptions. Here, in fact, I think that the individual school and the individual teacher still have challenges. I come from the municipality of Skien, and I have been accepted by immigrants for very many years. One of the schools, Stigeråsen School, has within 30 pst. Immigrants, so it's not just in Oslo that this is pretty dominant. They have worked very well in many areas, but other schools, where there may be fewer immigrant children, do not have the resources to deploy or have the great professional competence of large schools in large environments. There's got to be a lot of work here. Good school-home cooperation is incredibly important. Then we are also involved in the interpretation service, and something so simple as that interpreting service needs to be strengthened because communication between school and home needs to improve. In a good school, we're going to demand some of the students, and we're going to be able to stimulate the students. The knowledge lift gives assumptions for that. I believe that the focus in primary school must be very strong in terms of how we can get minority children to be as good as the ethnic Norwegian children, and not to drop out more of high school or high school than the ethnic Norwegian children. If we can raise our children and get them all up on a more even level, I think we'll actually solve a bit in relation to role models, and it'll be more natural to get more representation in the different professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1410	The interpellant points to a number of challenges we face in terms of immigrant children, or children with a minority background, in primary school. She pointed to parents with poor or lack of Norwegian knowledge, and the need for homework and follow-up. She pointed to girls' participation in activities such as physical and camp schooling, and she pointed to generally difficult or absent school-home cooperation. These are important challenges to take seriously. Many schools do a good job, not least those schools that put particular emphasis on school-home cooperation for foreign-language students. Interpellant is concerned that teachers with a minority background will make the school more inclusive and equipped to tackle these challenges. She's definitely right about that. Teachers are important role models, and teachers with a minority background will be able to provide the school with a lot of positive input, but it hardly solves all the challenges. As the representative Dagrun Eriksen said in his speech, we need to look at measures that can strengthen the role of parents and improve school-home cooperation, in particular focusing on the mothers of children. Better and strengthened school-home cooperation will bring benefits both in the short term, in order to improve individual schooling, and also in the long term, in order to influence individual pupils' further choices in relation to higher education. If parents have a positive and close relationship with the school, this will affect their pupils and their choice in the long term, both in relation to the choice of higher education for immigrants, whatever they choose, and in relation to the type of education they choose to take. We can't solve all the challenges in school by introducing immigrant teachers. Some schools have spent a lot of time on their parents and on school-home cooperation and have had very good experience with it. This should be done by all schools in Norway. I disagree that it's just an oslo problem. It's mostly an Oslo problem, but as a principal at a school in Sandnes, Rogaland, I can tell you that there were 27 nationalities among my 400 students. So for the reason that immigrant youth does not choose teacher training or other occupations such as child protection workers, pre-school teachers, police, etc. I agree with the representative who said that it is great that they choose higher education, and it is understandable that professions are chosen in medicine, science, etc., because there are international professions, which have a great reference to professions in other countries. It may also be that it is about pay and status. It may also be experience from own schooling with only ethnic Northmen as teachers and lack of role models. It can definitely be a reason. But it is also so that many professions are inherited. In some families there are many who become teachers; in other families there are many who become lawyers. With regard to that challenge, it is clear that a strengthened counselling service will be of good help and break a circle in which parents absolutely do not have higher education and where children with a minority background choose among all professions. We need people with a minority background in all professions in society, both to eliminate xenophobia and to promote tolerance and inclusion, because it is about broad participation and inclusion. This may be the main reason why one should get more teachers with a minority background. I want to repeat what we have to do in the short term: if we are to better solve the challenges of primary school today, we need to bet on parents, and we need to bet on school-home cooperation in the first place. Then I want to add a small challenge to the Council of State. There is a lot of effort in kindergartens, in the mothers of children in kindergarten and in elementary school. That's good. But how much do you spend on the kids who come to school on the way? There are a lot of kids coming to Norway when they're 11, 12, and 13. Have any targeted measures been put in place for the particular group that does not go via kindergarten, but goes straight into school, and has parents who like to lack language skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1429	I am very pleased that so many have participated in this debate. It gives cause for optimism. I really hope that you use the counselling service and have campaigns, strategy plans and grant schemes so that you can work purposefully to increase the recruitment of minority youth to social, political, and teacher schools in particular. I wonder if the Council of State would like to draw on the experience of the rest of the world. We know that many other European countries with experience of inclusion and integration through generations have addressed this and done something about it. Germany and England can be mentioned as good examples of that. And will the State Council include minority organisations and minority communities to make more of their young people choose this type of profession? At all, I think this debate is about one thing, and that is to return the authority of the teachers, return the authority of the policeman and return the authority of the child protection worker, simply give recognition and honor to those who do an incredibly important job in view of the educational impact they have on our future generations in multicultural Norway. Thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1440	Let me also thank you for a good debate on a very important topic. And let me take the representative Khan on the floor. Yeah, I think that was a very good idea. I'm going to take care to invite minority language organisations to the ministry, so that we can go through how we can work together to create more role models for these important professions, as the representative has mentioned. I'm taking that challenge on a tight arm. We're gonna make sure of that. Language opens doors in general. The mastering of languages, the mastering of Norwegian, is also the key to this. That means that a lot of things have to be done when young people get into their age, of course. But among those who have been here for more than two generations, more with non-Western backgrounds now choose higher education than the usual Norwegian youth do. This shows that there is every reason to be optimistic about the future. There are many things that we've done, and like others have done, that have given results, so we also have to see that there are positive features in this. The effort we are now making through the big news, not least in terms of language, is very crucial for us to succeed in the future. It is clear that when several young people are in control of Norway, there will also be many other ways of education that are open. Not least, I think the teaching profession can seem more natural to choose for more people. In the big news, which has been mentioned by many, and in the strategy plan, we have many different actions that are really about this: how young people should master Norwegian society through language to have all these options open. I believe that this debate has been a good contribution in this way. Many ideas are aired, many thoughts are aired, where we have a common horizon for more children to master and succeed both in school and in life. Not least, we need to have more role models in those professions where today we do not have as many people with minority language backgrounds as we would like. These include police, preschool teachers and teachers, but there may also be others – taking a profession as a journalist, a profession as a newsreader on TV, a profession as an actor, any profession that can be a face to youth, not just a face to minority-speaking youth, but a face to Norwegian youth. A great deal of this is profoundly concerned with the demystification of something that lies a little bit within us. It just shows that every youth is a regular youth, which can be anything if the opportunities are provided for it. There will be an interaction between us as authority and the many out there, which must be an important part of this. That's why I think Saera Khan's proposal for a meeting with minority language organisations to go through this and education to professions like teachers, preschool teachers, police, etc. can be a way to go. If we from the department can help more people to see the opportunities offered by teacher training, this is a small and good contribution in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1453	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1467	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1483	In this proposition, the Government is asking for permission to launch a project for new accommodation for the rescue helicopters at the main Bodø Aviation Station and for the power to increase the cost framework for the replacement of wings on P-3 Orion maritime surveillance aeroplanes. The 330 squadron is the Air Force Rescue Helicopter operator. More than 1000 tasks are carried out annually. The primary tasks are to carry out search, rescue and ambulance missions. In addition, support is provided for special operations. The Squadron operates helicopters of type Sea King, and consists of four departments: Sola, Ørland, Bodø and Banak as well as an outing at Rygge Air Station. Bodø Main Aviation Station is one of the largest departments in the Air Force, is one of the sharp ends of the Defense and produces air power. The rescue helicopter service in Bodø is maintained in today's hangar B. The building, which dates from 1955, is not designed to perform helicopter operations. It is currently in very poor condition and has a significant need for upgrading. Hangar B also does not meet the essential health, environmental and safety requirements. On the basis of instructions from the Labour Inspectorate and in order to continue to operate rescue helicopters from Bodø, a pilot project was launched in February 2006 to improve the maintenance facilities. After an overall assessment, the Ministry of Defence has found that the best solution to meet the need is to build a new building with two maintenance docks and a plastic hall for parking the third helicopter. The Committee agrees with the Ministry of Defence's conclusion that a new building is being built with two maintenance docks and a plastic hall for the parking of the third helicopter at Bodø Main Aviation Station. The Committee notes that the project will have a construction time of up to 22 months, with the planned completion by the end of 2008. Furthermore, this case deals with the approval of an increased framework for existing material projects, Chapter. 1760, replacement of wings on P-3 Orion maritime surveillance aircraft. Andøya Air Station is the base of the 333-square drone operating P-3 Orion maritime patrol aircraft. The main tasks of these Orion aeroplanes are the monitoring of military maritime activity, the control of fishing resources and submarine search. Due to its large reach, the squadron's aircraft are also involved in many search and rescue operations in the northern regions. Since the phase-in of P-3 Orion in 1969, more than 110 000 hours of flight have been flown without serious accidents. The 333-square is the only Air Force squadron that has been in continuous service since it was established in Scotland in 1942. At Stortingen's treatment of Innst. S. No 226 for 2005-2006, cf. St. pp. No 72 for 2005-2006, the government was authorised to start the replacement of wings on our Orion aircraft. The project was approved with a framework of 720 million. 2006-kr, corresponding to SEK 729 million. 2007-kr. This framework was based on the creation of a cooperation project with the authority of another country. The Committee understands and takes note that the Government has found it necessary to recommend the launch of the project on its own. The Committee notes that the project framework then needs to be increased by 179 million. kr. The Committee is very concerned that this capacity should be operational and will therefore support the Government’s proposal to increase the project’s cost framework. At the same time, careful monitoring of cost developments is very important, and keeping the size of the population informed about developments. The propulsion party has been involved for several years in the technical condition of P-3 Orion maritime surveillance aeroplanes and has therefore repeatedly proposed that an assessment be made of the condition of the aeroplanes. Furthermore, the Progress Party has pointed out on several occasions that it is important to implement a plan for the acquisition of new surveillance aeroplanes. The Progress Party is therefore very concerned that the improvements that are now being made to our P-3 Orion maritime surveillance aircraft need to be seen in the context of a future replacement of the material.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1504	The Soria Moria Declaration states that the presence of the defence, sovereignty and the exercise of authority in the northern regions must be strengthened. The declaration also includes the defence’s contribution to good preparedness for environmental crises, ability to monitor, resource control and preparedness. In the case of the new and amended investment projects in the Defence, new facilities for the rescue helicopter service at the Bodø Main Aviation Station and the increase of the cost framework for the replacement of wings on P-3 Orion maritime surveillance aircraft are included. Both are elements of the government's increased bet in the northern regions. In this context, first of all, it is important that the rescue helicopter service at Bodø Main Aviation Station is provided with safe accommodation. In this way, we are involved in ensuring the best possible rescue helicopter service also for the northern parts of the country for the future. Secondly, we see the importance of implementing the replacement of wings on Orion flights alone, despite the increased cost framework, because cooperation with Canada on this seems more uncertain. Maritime surveillance aeroplanes are important in relation to the surveillance of the north. As we were made aware of the last time we dealt with the matter, Norway would risk facing a reduced airborne maritime surveillance capacity from around 2008, and without such a capacity from 2016 if we do not make a wing change on the planes. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee agrees and is concerned that our Orion capacity should be operational and therefore supports the project and the Government's proposal to increase the cost framework for the replacement of wings on the Orion aircraft. This will give the planes a lifetime to about 2030. The Government’s Declaration of Accession places emphasis on the north as Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. In order to safeguard Norway’s interests and assert our sovereignty, effective monitoring of the areas in question is necessary. I am proud that our government shows this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1519	The defence Orion aircraft has been mentioned for several years in connection with the necessary upgrade. It's also been the case for the Defense Hercules C-130. With regard to both of these types of aircraft, the Ministry of Defence has provided assurances to the Storting that these aircraft have been in a condition that would guarantee operational capacity for a year to come. Proposal from the Progress Party to launch an acquisition process for new transport and surveillance aircraft has been voted down and almost ridiculed by the Defence Management on the grounds that we have sufficient capacity in the fleet we have today. Now, on the other hand, reality has also acquired the leadership of the Defence Department and the Ministry of Defence, and we now see the result: lack of capacity and high costs. The Advance Party now hopes that the Government will realise that today’s Orion fleet is ripe for a replacement and that the Government will start an acquisition process for the corresponding capacity as soon as possible. I can also mention our fighter planes, i.e. F-16, which also has to and must be replaced. Overall, the aircraft is in a situation where the equipment is old – yes, very old – while the tasks are waiting. Something has to be done here, and then it is not enough just to change the wings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1530	I am very pleased that a joint committee endorses the proposals in the proposal, which is about creating better conditions for the rescue helicopter service in Bodø and extending the cost framework for the replacement of wings on P-3 Orion. It's true that the P-3 Orion planes are one of the most important surveillance capabilities we have in the northern areas today, and also in the Defence. With its operational capabilities and enormous reach, it will continue to be many years before these aeroplanes can possibly be replaced by other capacities. The background to the Government's recommendation to increase the framework is, as has also been said, that other nations that had intended to be with us about this work have now withdrawn. The enhanced framework to which the Committee has joined will provide the aeroplanes with a structural life span by 2030. With regard to the government’s investment in the north, it is also specified in the 2007 budget through a significant increase in operational activity in both maritime, air and land strengths. I note that in addition, the Advance Party wants a plan for the acquisition of new maritime surveillance aircraft. For that reason, I would like to inform you that per year. today are not new platforms on the market having the total capacity of today’s maritime surveillance aircraft. The United States has properly launched a programme to develop a more modern capacity, but this seems to be operational at the earliest around 2020. Otherwise, I would also like to tell the representative of Bredvold that I understand the concerns of the planes. These are important capacities. As far as the transport flight capacity is concerned, it has been shown that a process should have been started earlier. But we now take the consequences of that and will come back to it when we get something further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1543	As has been said here, we're all a few people about this. But it may seem that the Progress Party is not fully aware of what they've been up to. What we're actually doing in Stortinget today is getting a good and lasting solution when it comes to the north and surveillance planes. But then one from the Progress Party sees a need to go even further – beyond 2030. For all I'm going to admit that one has to plan for a long time, but what we know today is that already in 2030 new technology can have taken over. We may not even need to monitor aircraft from 2030 onwards. This is a permanent solution, and it's a good solution. That's why the comment that comes from the Progress Party becomes a little weird. What we should otherwise take over here in the hall is why we're going to get an extra $179 million. kr in the case of aeroplanes. Are we good enough to count, and are we good enough here in the hall to follow up the investments that are being made, so that the investments don't unnecessarily go beyond the balance we want in defense, and so that one also has money for operation? That's where we just have to be even more good-looking and housekeepers with the money we have to afford. Now we will get good help from the 2007 Defence Study, FS07, and of course also from the selection that is working on this. But we here in the hall have a big responsibility when it comes to making sure that we're able to house, that one manages the daily operations at the same time as one has an investment program that is also related to it. But the one must not go beyond the other. Today, we're going to have a lifetime extension of the Orion fly. It's a very good contribution to the balance that the Defense so badly needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1552	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1560	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 and 2 and points 5 and 6. In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no votering theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1570	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1594	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The cancellation consents to the implementation of road investments in expanded Tromsøpack 2 as explained in the case. The decision requests the Government to refer to State full funding as soon as possible and to justify implementation as planned with State advance.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1627	During the debate, Borghild Tenden has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a broad review of the data protection issue related to monitoring and recording in the transport sector and to present it in a separate wholesale notification.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-22.ana.ud2340e1738	Thus, today's map has been processed.
