ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e56	For the sake of order, the President shall refer to the Committee's recommendations, even if the President believes that not all time will be spent, as it now appears. At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e63	Norway signed the bunker convention on 26 September 2002. An overall committee has joined the Government’s proposal that Norway should now ratify this Convention. The Bunker Convention lays down rules on liability and insurance for pollution damage caused by the discharge of bunker oil from ships which are not oil tankers and are not covered by previous conventions on the same subject. The ratification is now helping to clarify the insurance obligations of shipowners and will improve the safety of the loss and the cost to victims of accidents involving ships and bunker oil discharges, or in the event of an emergency discharge of bunker oil in order to prevent their release and damage to the keel water. From experience, we know that even in the case of smaller emissions, the costs of oil protection operations quickly reach several million kroner. It is a fact that most cases of oil spills in Norway have been the very release of fuel oil from ships that are not oil tankers. The accession of the bunker convention will mean that we seal this dirt hole, and that all ships can be placed under responsibility and subject to an insurance obligation against any damage caused by emissions. This eliminates the risk of economic loss to economic operators who are being harmed and injured. And equally important: this ensures the ability to cover the bill after oil spill cleaning in vulnerable natural environments and coastal areas. For a country such as Norway, with significant shipping traffic along our long coast and significant coastal settlement and industrialisation, it is of great importance that this Convention can enter into force as soon as possible. The Committee is also pleased that the Bunker Convention provides that the injured party may claim compensation directly from the insurer and that the insurer will normally be obliged to pay the amount even if the registered owner cannot be found. However, there is an exception when the damage is caused by the owner's intentional mistake. The compulsory liability insurance under the Bunker Convention covers liability up to the limits of the 1996 Convention, as laid down in the Maritime Act. In fact, most ships which have compulsory civil liability insurance under the Bunkers Convention will also have supplementary insurance. The Committee agrees that the rules of the Bunker Convention on the direct right of injured parties must also apply to insurance which is additional to the compulsory liability insurance under the Bunker Convention. The Committee supports the Government’s proposal to introduce the same rules on liability management in the event of bunker oil spillage, as is the case in the Maritime Act. This is important in order to prevent problems and delays associated with measures to prevent or control pollution. In conclusion, the Committee is committed to providing effective protection against damage and loss of discharges from ships and considers it appropriate that no exemption from the obligation of insurance should be granted to ships, even if they are engaged exclusively in domestic voyages. The rules shall also cover ships owned by the Norwegian State and used exclusively in State, non-commercial activities. This means that exemptions are granted only for State ships owned by a foreign country. However, the rules on liability shall also cover such ships, in respect of damage done here in the Kingdom or in the Norwegian economic zone. The Committee recommends that Odelstinget give its opinion on the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e92	The case spokesperson did good for this matter in an excellent way, so I won't go into it any more. But I would like to pay tribute to the case manager for both the quick and effective handling of this important matter. There's also a group committee, as they say, that's behind it. It is important to clarify that Norway has a long and vulnerable coast, and emissions of e.g. fuel oil may have serious consequences. With this ratification, you will be able to clean up the vulnerable natural environment, to eliminate the risk of economic loss and to seal a hole that has been in the legislation. It is important to have effective protection against damage and loss of discharge from ships, and it is also important that this is put in place as soon as possible, something we advocate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e101	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 110]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e117	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 112]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e133	The reduction in the passport fee for adults is another step on the way to establishing a fairer tax system, where the most expensive contributes most to the community and where the fees represent the actual costs. In the summer we made a reduction in the price of passports for children, and now we complete by reducing the price of passports for adults. Let me make it clear that this also applies to emergency passports. The red-green majority, like the Bondevik government, does not want to use passport fees as balancing items to facilitate taxation for those who already have the most. Under the Bondevik II government, for example, the fees for children from 163 kroner to 420 kroner, which we could not accept. Similarly, the red-green government has also put on the brake in relation to the price evolution of the legal fee. During the Bondevik administration, the price of the trial fee increased sharply, while we have left the price on site resting after we took over. This work is a follow-up to the Stoltenberg Government principle that the fee should not be more expensive than it actually costs to perform the service. In addition, this is also part of our fight against poverty, because the legal fee makes a major contribution to the economy of victims of debt. While the Bondevik government reduced the tax for those who used to have the most, and increased the tax, the red-green policy is to let those who have the most, pay the most in taxes, and reduce the fees and charges for people the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e146	Very briefly: I will also pay tribute to the Government for this matter. Actually, I think they deserve it. The fact that you have a policy where you want to set a cost base for what you have to pay for a service seems that the Progress Party is a good policy, and in this way the sitting government will have to pay for it – perhaps in contrast to the previous one who probably would rather use it as a purely fiscal fee to earn more revenue to the state. How the need for this was, I should not be told, but I would say that Norway does not go any worse even if you actually reduce the passport fee and some other fees. That's good. What the chairperson of the Judicial Committee also said about a good tax and tax policy is perhaps more opinion-based than on the rationale for lowering the passport fee and the legal fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e153	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 116]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e169	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e176	It will be interesting to hear what the Minister of Justice thinks about this matter! [[The City Council of Storberget was at this time the only Council of State present in the Chamber]] The Economic and Social Committee has examined amendments to the veterinary and other animal health legislation. In short, this matter is about transferring responsibility for satisfactory veterinary coverage across the country from the country to the municipalities. Today, it is the State that has the overall responsibility to ensure a nationwide animal health service. The Ministry wants municipalities to be given a greater responsibility to ensure adequate access to services provided by animal health professionals. For this to be possible, the Government proposes an amendment to the second paragraph of Section 1. The Government justifies the proposal that a weakened financial basis for clinical veterinary services makes it less attractive for veterinarians to establish themselves in several districts. The government indicates that in 2004 an opinion was issued by the Sagelvmo Committee, which recommended that the municipalities assume responsibility for the veterinary services. During the examination of this case, the Government has conducted a hearing. The Economic and Social Committee has also recently held a hearing on the case in which the Norwegian Veterinary Association and the Norwegian Bondelag took part. In both the round of consultations conducted by the Government and in the Round of Consultations of the Economic and Social Committee, many negative opinions were received in connection with the responsibility of the municipalities for the veterinary services. The main emphasis of the municipalities which gave their opinion at the hearing did not wish to take over this task from the State. In addition, the Norwegian Veterinary Association therefore believes that the country should continue to have overall responsibility for ensuring a good veterinary service throughout the country. Norway’s Bondelag stated in the hearing that they were strongly opposed to the transfer and that they were concerned about ensuring satisfactory veterinary services across the country when the amendment enters into force on 1 January. Of course, the government parties in the committee support the Government's proposals. They have made a new wording to the second paragraph of Section 3a, which underlines the responsibilities of the municipalities in the case. The members of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left support the Government's proposal, while the members of the Advance Party have a different view and want the State to continue to have overall responsibility. The members of the Progress Party have put forward a proposal that underlines this. It is critical in our days to transfer new tasks to the municipalities. We read daily in the newspapers that the municipalities are struggling to carry out the tasks for which they are already responsible. We read about the poor municipal economy and the problems of the municipalities with priority between the tasks they have. Therefore, the Progress Party is critical that the municipalities now have another task to do. We're doubtful whether they're able to solve this problem, at least in the short term. In recent days, I have had a number of telephone calls from worried municipal politicians who have been dealt with the matter by the chairmanship and local government, who are wondering what this matter is. My impression is that the treatment of the case has not come very far in the municipalities. It is worrying about the importance of ensuring good veterinary coverage and animal health. The Progress Party therefore believes that it is best for the Food Safety Authority, which already has good competence in this area, to retain the task, so that we are still ensured a good veterinary service for those actors in society who need this type of service. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e204	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e207	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a sort of thorough review of the case and also for having made clear comments in the pen that it has been easy to understand and relate to, and it has been easy to disagree with them. In fact, there is reason to note the total absence of confidence in the ability of municipalities to solve tasks that the Progress Party makes visible in its comments in the setting of the case. Then to the realities. To date, the State has had overall responsibility for ensuring the national animal health service and the organisation of a clinical veterinary watch. This law gives municipalities more direct responsibility than the State has had, which means that they must take action to ensure satisfactory access to animal health professionals in the municipality. They shall also be responsible for organising a veterinary watch other than normal working hours. This is in line with the principle of responsibilities for the service as close as possible to the users. That is a principle I agree with. I think it's the municipalities that know where the need is greatest. I'm not saying this needs to be a simple problem in all municipalities. It is likely to be simpler in municipalities with well-developed intercommunal cooperation than in municipalities where this is not so prominent. However, compared with the responsibility of municipalities for primary health care and the organisation of medical care and medical cooperation, I believe that competence in finding the best solutions for veterinary coverage is better in municipalities than in the state. I therefore believe that this reform will be a good arrangement for both animal and animal nutrition in this country. I'm glad that the opposition, apart from the Advancement Party, joins in this setting, which I'm not surprised by, because the grip that is now being done seems to be what best takes account of professional and rational considerations and will be most forward-looking. And it's important to remember. This is done to get a better veterinary service across the country than what we have today. As an old rapporteur, there is always a bit of scepticism about the financial settlement that follows in the wake of a task transfer from the state to the municipality. I believe that this must be done in a proper way, by ensuring that the state secures the funding and transfers the funds used for clinical veterinary services to the municipalities. That's $12.5 million. kr to the approximately quarter of the municipalities with the lowest number of animals, in addition to the 4.5 million. kr to cover administrative costs. I think this is an acceptable scheme for the municipalities. We have, in a joint remark in the vote, underlined that municipalities need to be guaranteed the economy in order to carry out the new tasks in a good way. The interface between state and municipal responsibilities in the service must be given attention. It is therefore important that the Food Authority takes responsibility for establishing a good dialogue between itself and the veterinarians – a dialogue that they should actually have today. It is also important that the experience and knowledge of the Food Safety Authority with regard to the watch regime are well transferred to the municipalities. It is important for example: in order to ensure the best possible protection of animal health and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e222	The former president of the United States Ronald Reagan spent a lot of time riding his ranch. One of his favorite expressions was: "There is nothing better for the inside of a man than the outside of a horse." Many of us don't share Reagan's political point of view, but are still some in that he has a point here. There are many people who are really happy in animals, and who want to have the best possible veterinary services in the vicinity. This does not apply only to those who have animals for recreational use. Good veterinary services all over the country are crucial to our agriculture. Farmers depend on veterinary services to manage livestock. The animal's welfare also has a self-esteem value in itself. We have a very clear responsibility to treat animals in the most good and caring way possible. This is therefore a cause for concern when it has been found in recent times that it is not economically attractive for veterinarians to establish themselves in some districts. This may be detrimental to the prevention of animal diseases, which, in turn, may cause problems for livestock and agricultural activities. In light of this, the Bondevik II administration selected to set up a selection to propose solutions. The Sagelvmo selection concluded that the municipalities should be entrusted with responsibility for ensuring satisfactory veterinary services. This Council was well founded on the objective of satisfactory veterinary services throughout the country. The proposal was also in line with the principle of placing the responsibility for services at the lowest level of defence. When the Government now makes this proposal, it has the support of the Christian People's Party. I think that the municipalities have good intentions to find good and practical solutions to ensure the best possible veterinary services throughout the country. The proposal is quite correct, as several hearing authorities have pointed out quite correctly: there is no legal secret that specifically stretches under the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure veterinary watch outside normal working hours. The Norwegian veterinary association, which otherwise supported the proposal, was between those who were concerned that such a legal home must be in place. I am therefore pleased that the plural number is now in favour of such a house of law. The Christian People's Party also places strong emphasis on the peasantry's views. In addition to the request for a law home, the Bondelag expressed concern that municipalities would have sufficient financial resources to provide good veterinary services. The Norwegian veterinary association and many municipalities have probably also been concerned about this. So the majority point below in the proposition setting that it is important for municipalities to have good financial conditions so that they can carry out the new tasks properly. There is also reason to stress that responsibility for the response to infectious animal diseases and the follow-up to animal welfare matters remains the responsibility of the Food Safety Authority. The Christian People's Party, on the basis of this, ends up in the broad plural that supports the present proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e246	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a clear presentation of the case. The conversion we are going to adopt today in the Veterinary and other animal health professionals Act will strengthen access to such services in areas where the nutritional basis for veterinary practices is poor. The legislative changes are therefore important for animal welfare and animal health around the districts. Municipalities are now responsible for ensuring adequate access to services provided by animal health professionals. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee has further clarified the municipal responsibility for the veterinary services in relation to the Government's proposals. The recommendation states that municipalities should provide a clinical watch service other than regular office hours. It provides safety for livestock users and for animal welfare. I noticed that the representative Haugen, who characterized himself as the ‘old rapporteur’, expressed some concern about the financing of this matter. I would like to say, as a slightly younger old rapporteur, that this has also been a strong focus in the Centre Party's group. We are very concerned that the transfer of responsibility for veterinary services to the municipalities is fully financed by the state, which is now proposed. We have to assume that this ringing is going to continue. I believe it will provide a clear improvement that the municipalities are given this responsibility. Local authorities know better than central authorities what needs the service meets locally. It is important that municipalities have room to find local adjustments, individually or, where possible, in cooperation with other municipalities. We're looking forward to seeing the effect of that. I am pleased that there has been such a constructive dialogue between the KS, the Veterinary Association and the authorities in the matter. The actors are already familiar to me in a good process of following up the new scheme. This is essential for the wider process of finding good solutions for animals and animal owners. In order for the conversion to function as intended, it is also essential that the interaction between the Food Authority and the operating veterinarians is good. A good flow of information between actors is necessary, inter alia: in order to ensure the preparedness for infection. I assume that the state and the supervisory authorities will facilitate good practice in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e263	The aim of the amendment to the legislation currently under consideration by Odelstinget is to strengthen access to veterinary services. In recent years we have seen that in many areas of the country there is a poor nutritional basis for veterinary practices, and thus it is also not attractive for veterinarians to establish themselves to practice clinical practice. Many concerned advisers and rapporteurs have been in contact with the Department in the hope that we can help strengthen the veterinary coverage. I am therefore pleased that there is broad support here in the Chamber for a legislative change that will be important to farmers and in addition to animal welfare and animal welfare in the districts. The certainty that it is possible to obtain veterinarians who practice is of great importance for all animal owners. The amendment of the legislation entails the establishment of a specific legal responsibility to ensure adequate access to services provided by animal health professionals. Responsibilities are placed at the lowest effective level in the municipalities. Until now, there has been no legal responsibility to provide general veterinary coverage in individual districts. The State has been responsible for organising and financing a clinical veterinary watch system other than normal working hours, but no one has been responsible for daytime access to services. Some municipalities have used voluntary incentives for veterinarians, while others have considered it difficult to prioritise such voluntary measures against other tasks. The government has followed up the legislative amendment with a proposal in the budget proposal on new earmarked funds of 12 million. to the municipalities in order to be able to discharge their new responsibilities properly. At the same time as municipalities are now responsible for providing adequate access to services provided by animal health professionals, responsibility for clinical veterinary watch is transferred from the State to the municipalities. The clinical veterinary watch was marked by unrest and conflict before this government took over. On the basis of a request decision by the Stortinget, the watch regime was determined by a separate sample. In February 2006, we negotiated a new agreement with the Norwegian veterinary association based on the selection procedure. This has calmed down the watch regime. The veterinary association has followed up its obligations under the agreement in a good manner and actively worked to get the members to conclude the watch agreement. There seems to be a broad consensus that the watch regime we have today is working well. In my opinion, it is essential that we have put the conflicts about the watch regime behind us when the responsibility is added to the municipalities. I have noticed that the number of committees is in favour of adding to the bill we have proposed, in order to clarify that the responsibility of the municipalities for access to services also includes responsibility for clinical veterinary services. The Ministry negotiated an adjusted watch agreement with the Veterinary Association in October this year. This agreement forms the basis for the agreement recently concluded by KS with the Veterinary Association in order to ensure a good continuation of the watch regime under municipal responsibility. Through earmarked transfers, we undertake to fully compensate the municipalities for the costs incurred by the watch regime, as organised when the municipalities assume responsibility. In my opinion, it provides the legislative change supported by a large majority in this Chamber, clear leadership to ensure a good supply of veterinary services throughout the country. Municipalities have the best conditions for finding good solutions adapted to local needs, either alone or in intermunicipal cooperation. I am sure that this law, when adopted, will prove important for agriculture in rural areas and for our work on good animal health and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e279	As I mentioned in my post, I have great concerns about the implementation of this case. As I also mentioned, I have received a number of enquiries from municipal politicians in recent times that show that the municipalities have come very short on this matter. I would assume that there are many municipalities that now in the pre-Christmas period do not have enough time to deal with this matter so that they can set up a good enough system from 1 January. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he is now sure that he has a good enough overview of the situation in the municipalities regarding the establishment of this case, and, if not, whether the Council of State will take responsibility for any animal tragedy that comes in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e287	We have had a very good process with KS on behalf of Norwegian municipalities on this matter. KS is on board in view of this as a good solution to decentralise an important service offer against Norwegian livestock users. KS considers this to be well-suited to be under the responsibility of the municipalities. With regard to the situation occurring after 1 January, the greatest difference is the use of more resources in this area. That is the greatest change, and a change that will benefit the livestock owners who want to make use of veterinary services. Municipalities will be able to go into concrete action and use resources in a way that is completely different from that of the State, which has been, in itself, a more passive part of it, to the extent that it wishes to extend the services offered by the veterinarians in its municipality or in inter-municipal cooperation, because it is provided with means specifically to strengthen weak veterinary areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e294	Now, the local economy is quite poor in a lot of municipalities. We still don't have the full overview, but only in Troms, a state that I know well, the municipalities have to cut their budgets by about 200 million. NOK due to increased interest rates and increased compensation of employees and pensions. And then they still get transferred more tasks that will cost. When the fight is between school leaving, reducing health care provision and other welfare measures, does the Council of State believe that municipalities will give priority to animal welfare ahead of human welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e299	The question that was asked may initially seem to bear the impression that there is free money being transferred to the municipalities. It's not. These are earmarked funds that are sent to Norwegian municipalities, and the question is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e304	I think maybe I'll follow up on the previous question, because I don't think it got a serious answer. Let me first stress that the entire committee is very concerned about the veterinary system and that it should be as much as possible, but we disagree on how to get there. But let's look at the funds that are set off: it's set at 4.5 million. kr to the administrative expenses of municipalities to compensate for this scheme. So it's going to be 10,000 per cent. municipality, i.e. two day's work to work on this. We know, after input we've received, that there are many municipalities that have not yet started this work. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he can guarantee that the period set up in relation to this scheme will not go beyond animal welfare in the country. I will also follow up on Korsberg's question: does he think municipal politicians will give priority, with such scarce resources, animal welfare ahead of human welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e309	I can elaborate on the answer to the question that has been asked twice. The problem here is that there are earmarked funds sent to Norwegian municipalities to have a veterinary service around the country. In addition, we now grant extra money that municipalities can apply for in order to strengthen veterinary services in particularly vulnerable areas. There is a strengthening of the veterinary supply in Norway; it is a strengthening in particular of the veterinary supply in the most vulnerable areas. So how the representatives of the Progress Party can come up with a proposal that strengthens veterinary services, which increases resource use towards this sector, as a measure to help reduce access to veterinary services, reduce work in relation to animal welfare, is difficult for me to see – I don't see that link.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e314	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 116]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e324	The odelsting shall then be added to the case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e677	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e688	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1225	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1235	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1275	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1285	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1293	During the debate, the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to continue the current organisation of veterinary services.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1336	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1349	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1363	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05-lower.ana.ud2608e1374	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
