ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e24	Two permit applications are available: From the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo on the extension of the approved maternity leave until 27 November and thereafter on welfare leave from 28 November to 7 December.From the Workers' Group on welfare leave of the representative Hill-Marta Solberg from 12 November until further notice. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the meeting of the alternate of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the remainder of the representative Olav Gunnar Ballos, i.e. from 12 November to 7 December for welfare reasons. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representatives, for Finnmark County Johnny Ingebrichtsen and for Nordland County Knut Petter Torgersen, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e59	On behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Kvassheim, Gunvald Ludvigsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the national centre of competence to counter health damage related to chemical use.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e64	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e67	On behalf of Jan Tore Sanner, Elisabeth Aspaker, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and I, the undersigned, will present proposals for the modernisation of the state's construction and property activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e72	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e96	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following sta Councils will meet for oral Question Time: Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr State Council Life Signe Navarsetestaatsråde Knut Storberget The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main question, from the representative Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e115	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Today, it seems that representatives of the government parties are going to join us in the traditional opposition of the industry about who is most opposed to the foreign minister's policy. In this competition, we aim to be the constructive opposition. Last month the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave a lecture in Oslo Military Society, where he, among other things, spoke. said: ‘The need to have a strengthened military presence in the northern regions is about the natural presence of any coastal state must have in our modern times as traffic increases and more flocks towards our waters.’ Very well said! We can put two lines below this conclusion. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has made himself a Northern Minister. It's a lot of commitment and a lot of promises. As the Foreign Minister himself says, strengthened military presence in the north is important. Monday came the defense study. It shall be duly treated. But since the Foreign Minister thinks a lot about these questions and is concerned about them – he is knowledgeable in this area – it might be interesting to know how the developments we are now seeing in Defence, not least exemplified by the defence study, harmonize with the foreign minister's goal of a strengthened military presence in the North. Is it not true that as long as the defence is deprived as it is today, the declared aim of the Minister of Foreign Affairs is only an illusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e131	First, I would like to say that there is no opposition to the Government's foreign policy in the Government. The government stands strongly united about it, and it comes to expression almost daily. Then I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that the representative is reading my lectures in Oslo Military Society so thoroughly. I think maybe he should read even more thoroughly, to look at the drawing of the challenges in the north as a composite picture, where we go from a reality where we focused on one military threat to a complex reality of many risk factors, including the military, where energy, transport, fish, climate change and increased attention are part of the whole picture. It requires a wide range of responses from the Norwegian side, and a good interplay between civil political and military means. I don't think the military tool is the main response to Norway's challenges in the north. That is why, in my lectures, I have tried to bring forward a balanced message, that in a coastal state responsible for sea areas with great attention, potential rivalry and much to keep track of, the military belongs at home. The review tone in both the defence study and defence policy selection is to emphasise and nuance the new importance of the northern regions. I look forward to a major political debate in Norway in which all sides embrace the broad outline of the guidelines for Norwegian defence, foreign and security policy in these areas over the years to come. And that's a tone, both at the head of defence and at the selection of defence policy, with a new emphasis on the north, focusing on the areas where Norway has the most to follow in its neighbourhoods. So I find, perhaps not surprisingly, that the priority we are doing in the north, the complex picture and the attempt to meet this with a series of instruments, including military presence, is well in line with the analytical and professional work of defence authorities and political authorities when they look forward to the defence of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e144	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we need a whole. And the military is only one tool – yet an important tool. It is true that parts of the Defense may now have to look more north, but the developments that we, for example. is of great concern to maritime defence, which is so important for monitoring the major maritime areas. We share the concern expressed by SV's defence spokesman, Bjørn Jacobsen, in the Class Battle yesterday: when you concentrate the Maritime Defense to Bergen and propose a closure of Olavs protection, how will it harmonize with being operational and operating in the north? And does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not agree that we need a maritime defence that covers not least the vulnerable coastal areas we are talking about, precisely in the light of the environmental challenges and the general increase in activity in the north that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has well described?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e151	It is promising that Bjørn Jacobsen and Morten Høglund will begin to work together on these questions. [[muttering in the hall]] I won't, of course, start a discussion, just as little as I think someone else is in position for it now, about base to base, fast to speed, in this context. There is going to be a heated debate with many interests, from both regional policy, defence policy and security policy perspectives. But that both of these studies point to the north, I think is a clear sign. So I want to add that the presence at sea is important. Having an up-to-date, modern marine environment is important for Norway — with sea areas six times the land area in size. But according to Admiral Grytting at Landsdelskommando North Norway, there is not one challenge in the north that is only military, and only the military is the answer. As a coastal state of our size, with the important NATO anchoring we have, we should be very careful to define that the military is the answer and the only thing Norway shows in terms of coastal management, resource management, etc. But this is what we are going to have a major debate on in months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e160	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e163	The Northern Region bet for the government is about a lot of promises and new disappointments. The representative before me took up one aspect of it, namely in relation to the defense. However, there are also other aspects, and the Council of State itself has expressed on several occasions that knowledge and research are to be naved in the North Region initiative. It also repeated in its previous reply that there are more things than defence that are important to the north, including knowledge. Then it's very strange to welcome what we now see in relation to universities and colleges, just in the three northernmost states, which have had to endure in the 2007 budget to cut tens of millions. After all, it is tempting to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how it might be possible to do that priority, and how it should be a bet on the north areas if the wheel hub itself falls out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e168	The details of that question should be answered by the Minister of Knowledge, I believe, who is in charge of universities and colleges. I think we're going to be very wrong if we say that it's year-to-year spending on the budgets of some universities that decide whether Norway has the knowledge to meet the Northern Territory challenges. I have always stressed that the North Region bet is not an East Finland bet, it is not a Finnmark Troms, Nordland bet, it is a Norwegian North European bet on what is happening in the North. The fact that Norway has knowledge of resource management, energy development, fisheries, climate, the environment in the north, and that we should be in the leading class on it, is the hub of the North Region bet. So I think we're going to be able over time to make sure that our apprenticeships are able to be in front of it, from the new industries such as bio-prospecting, where we're about to set up a new knowledge programme between business and research, and then we'll probably look at the research budgets and education budgets in the future that we're able to manage it both professionally and in cooperation with the knowledge networks also in the business community and in the rest of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e176	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e179	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Minister of Foreign Affairs when he outlines the broad perspective of the Northern Region bet, and that was also the starting point when the strategy was presented in Tromsø, with a larger number of government councils on Northern Norwegian soil than ever. Unfortunately, from the point of view of the Christian People's Party, this has become to a large extent the territory of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This is also evident with regard to the summary made in the draft budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So it turns out that what we've been able to do at the North Zone bet is 196 million. kr. The same thing I could have found for Telemark County and called it a Telemark bet. My question is, where has it become of the broad perspective? People in North Norway wonder where it has become of the other state councils who were to be involved and contribute to this becoming a real and powerful North Norway bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e186	The interesting thing is that we now come from the centre-right side of Norwegian policy and call for money, subsidies, as a response to the challenges facing the north. That is not the position of this government. We need to bet on good projects, development over time. We have in our time spent fresh money on north-eastern projects. If we were to make the Telemark budget for the north, the representative, Sahl, knows that if we just add up the increase in the municipal economy, we're in the tens of billions class. We've spent over half a billion dollars on concrete north-eastern projects, and I'm proud of the summary of the measures we have in St.prp. No 1 on it. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a minority in it, because of course we do not have projects, as the other departments do. I think we stand for about 20 pst. of the means. But they will over time be incentives to move forward both in terms of knowledge, economic development and what my field is all about, diplomatic work towards other countries. It costs a lot of money to thank God, and we are then able to get a lot of political attention and insight by the way we engage neighboring countries in the region, and others who are interested.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e191	Anne Margrethe Larsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e194	As mentioned, the Foreign Minister had a speech in Oslo Military Society October 10th this year stating that he was not concerned about the increased Russian aviation activity in the north. He further stated that the need to have a strengthened military presence in the northern regions was about the natural presence of any coastal state in our modern times. I do not think this is evidence of any recognition that the strategic landscape in the northern regions is changing rapidly in and with the Russian reconstruction. I believe that our relationship with Russia should be based on two elements: cooperation and firmness. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share my concern that our ability to show firmness is weakening, given the reduction of the defence described in Defence Study 07?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e203	It's not right that I said I wasn't worried. I said we don't have reason to see the pattern of practice that's targeting us. There's a difference in that. But it's clear that Russia now has a much more active pattern of exercises in the air, on the water and under the water, is an expression that Russia is forward-looking, they're back to the pattern they were in the past. We must follow that very closely, and Norway as a neighbouring country to Russia sees this as a development we need to have a very sober view of. I am also given the opportunity in the NATO Council next week to brief on our perspectives in the north, including from that perspective. Am I worried? Cooperation and firmness are the line of Norwegian Russia policy. I fully agree with that. Am I worried that the firmness is bad? I'm not worried about that. We're stuck in the fish in the north. We can show ourselves both with consistent behaviour in the way we enforce authority and the way we are present at sea, and the whole debate on defence in the future will also take the form of that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e210	Per Ove Wide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e213	Like Norway, it is to be expected that other nations too will closely follow the defence and base structure of Norway. In view of the fact that Russia is now operating an aviation activity along the Norwegian coast that we have not seen since the Soviet era, and not only that, but also an active marine activity and a strategic build-up of the forces of land struggle in its northern regions, it seems strange that Norway is building down the base structure far north of the country, otherwise something that must be contrary to the Soria Moria Declaration. According to FS 07, if you want to follow the defense chief's proposal on the closure of bases in the north, we in our northernmost state will only be left with the border guard and the Home Guard. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think this is a sensible foreign and defence policy signal to send to our biggest neighbour in the East, in relation to what they are doing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e220	I assume that the representative Width does not attack the defence chief's right to promote his view of the situation he sees on a professional basis. It is an integrated document that he delivers and for which he writes, and for which he can take credit, as much as you have to see it. I repeat that Norway is now going to have a thorough process, politically, professionally and militarily, of how we should set up the Defence in the coming time. I also repeat: the northern regions will be central because Norway is a coastal state, because we have the neighbour we have, because we have the alliance we have. So I won't go into commenting on one base to the other base, the second garrison to the third garrison. I don't have a basis for that. But I think I can be sure that the political positions in Norway have so much in common that the northern regions are important to us. That's where we meet challenges that require a complex presence of political, military and civil activity. It's going to form the basis for a broad consensus in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e229	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e232	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Since the submission of the State budget, the Minister of Justice has used every opportunity to boast of the police budget. In the interest of better knowledge, the Council of State has repeatedly demonstrated that the Joint Police Association should be very pleased. The truth is that the police's largest trade union sent out two press releases when the budget came in. The last one, understandably, has tried to keep quiet, because it is explained that there are about 120 million missing. in 2008 to continue the operational level of the year. All those who can read budgets have discovered that in the police’s operating budget – after different designation – there is actually less pay left in 2008 than this year. A real downfall of about 100 million. kr is very serious, which was confirmed in a meeting with the police chief of Oslo yesterday, who informed that he must hold more than 100 unoccupied posts until next year. The Minister of Justice is misinforming people, and the problems are raging in police Norway. ‘Don’t rain with help tonight — the police are asleep’ had northern lights on the first page a short time ago. Kioskies locked in armed thief. The police had to drive 140 km. Traffic victims were in the way for almost two hours before the police arrived. The list of unsatisfactory conditions could have been lengthy. The point is that it's no longer a matter of course that people should get help from the police when they need it. New working time regulations from this summer push the budgets further. The guard areas are growing, the call-out time is increasing. The police themselves are now warning that the call-out threshold has become too high. We have to be prepared for a furious audience when the time of the raid crawls up to an hour and a half, the police in Rogaland pronounce. The gloss picture Storberget has tried to draw, the police now do not recognize themselves in. So how will the Minister of Justice explain that a bill by the Joint Police Association has been made shows that the police, with the government's draft budget for next year, are going to have a reduction in operational resources of 120 million. kr, with the consequences this has for the police in Oslo and the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e244	It should be done, however, to read the draft State budget for the justice sector in the way it is now doing. So it is a budget that proposes an increase to the justice sector of nearly DKK 1.9 billion. I understand very well that even the Police Joint Union in its first press release writes that this is the Minister of Justice on the right track. It is SEK 1.9 billion that will help to increase the police force across the country, and that will contribute to quite as much investment, investments that we have not seen in the field of justice. It's the government proud of. It is now taking both legal and economic action to bring about a major DNA reform. It is financed by the draft budget that lies there, with more than 60 million. kr. The fact that you're now adding 400 million. kr on the table in order for the Norwegian police, including the Oslo police, to have a completely new emergency contact, is absolutely crucial for the police force we expect. The fact that we are taking action in relation to gangs, and the group that is established in relation to prostitutes and the trafficking of human beings in Oslo, are clearly important bets. What's our challenge is that we need more policemen. There are almost 50 job vacancies in Oslo that you want to fill, and for which you actually have the funds. If you enter the country, there are between 80 and 160 job vacancies for which you do not have enough applicants. One of the problems is that in 2003 and 2004, there were too few police students, so that we have had too few graduates. There I think that especially the Right will go in line with the decisions they made when they sailed into government, and be glad that the Government has now chosen to run the maximum admission to the Police College, with over 430 students, who will be able to help us in the future stand in a completely different situation than the one we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e251	It is good that more people are being addressed at the Police College, but it is not good for the police to receive an operating budget until next year, which means that very many posts will remain unoccupied. It is true that more police officers come out in the future, but there is also an opportunity to have a more active senior policy. It is possible to employ more civilians in the police to relieve police officers of civil tasks and to concentrate on what they should do: to move out when the public needs it, to investigate everyday crime, to do more preventive work. These are balancing posts when we talk to the police now. So I ask again: what is the Council of State going to do in 2008 to prevent the public from getting no when they call the police? How is he going to bake a bigger justice budget to ensure that people get the help they need from the police in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e258	Firstly, the government has a commitment to make good police budgets. That is why we are creating growth in the police budgets. Already in the revised national budget six months ago, we proposed an increase to the Oslo police force, which then received 30 million. In addition, the expenditure incurred in connection with the NATO Summit was financed, extra money was paid to non-resident management, so it is not correct that the Oslo Police have cut some of their budgets. The last thing we saw about the Oslo police was the Bondevik II government's last proposal for the state budget. The same is true of the police. So when we look at the increase in police and prosecution authorities over the last three years, including the 2008 budget, there is an increase in police and prosecution authorities of nearly half a billion dollars. I have difficulty seeing that it can be described as a cut in the economy of the police. It helps us get guns, vests and cars in place, while at the same time recruiting both seniors and more civilians to relieve and get more policemen into the streets, as we all agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e263	There will be four follow-up questions – first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e266	The lack of resources in the police is very worrying. Close operational budgets have forced vigilance cooperation and ever-increasing districts. This, in turn, leads to a long recovery period in the event of serious accidents and serious crime. Once again, this is something that undermines people's confidence in the police and people's security. State councils have been very unwilling to say anything about response time. Every time the Progress Party takes this up, he is unwilling to indicate a response time. Then my question becomes to the Minister of Justice today: What does the Council of State think is an unacceptable response time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e273	It's a reasonable academic problem, to be completely honest. In this rather poor country with relatively large distances, it is difficult to set one standard response time. It can look wrong in any direction. What I have said, and the Storting has also joined, is that we should have a review of getting the response time in the Norwegian police down. That's why it's so important what the government is doing now, that you both strengthen the operational capacity of the police and train more policemen, so that you actually have people to move out when someone demands it. It is also important that we have a far greater opportunity for civilians to deal with civilian police tasks, so that the more police duties can be carried out by trained police officers. I'm also convinced that the DNA we now receive, which we implement from August 1st next year, will help to free up police capacity locally, you will be able to get hit faster, faster clearance, so that you can actually drive out in the streets, as we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e282	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e285	I don't think there's any doubt that the Minister of Justice has a lot of will to bet on the police. The question is whether the ability is there to an equivalent degree. And when the Minister of Justice mentions the budget of the Bondevik II government, I think I can simply refer to the budget that the Stoltenberg government has presented, where it itself provides an overview of what has been allocated. In the last year of the Bondevik government, there was a real growth of 3pst. in the field of justice. After this government's own writing in the budget, the real growth is down to 1 pst. And I don't think you go to many police districts to see that the operating situation is extremely difficult. So my question: when Finn Abrahamsen finds it necessary to leave the police at the age of 59 – he's at his best age, he says himself – and the police think it's okay that he goes off, what can we do to make sure that those who want to work in the police, who have experience and capacity, actually become in the police for us all?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e292	As I briefed the Storting about yesterday in an interpellation debate, there are many things we can do and will do to get more seniors to stay standing in their positions. It's important to increase the number of police officers, but it's also important because the seniors have experience skills that I think Norwegian police need more and more. What we've pointed out is that we want to use, among other things, wages and salaries as a means of raising seniors. We also want to use working time and holiday arrangements to get more seniors to stand in position, and we are now looking at the possibilities for a different type of work distribution so that it becomes more attractive for those who have been in the police case for a long time, to stand longer in office. I also said yesterday in Stortinget that these are measures that we are going to come back to Stortinget with as soon as possible. We're totally dependent on it to just get the manning capacity up. But the most important thing for the police force of the future is, after all, how many police officers we train. And there's a problem, because there's too few graduates today. That's why I think it's an important step the government has taken, when you increase the recording as massive as we've done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e299	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e302	The fight for citizens' security is now taking place, and it will take place tomorrow. It is absolutely essential that we in this country never have a country of weight. That is why the Left wonders what kind of strategic grip the Minister of Justice will take to meet this. A strategic approach is, of course, getting more policemen. Training as many people as you do now is very good. The left wants you to move on, but I'm not going to make it a topic today. What I want to do as a topic is something that we can do now, and that is: while we wait for the police to be trained – it takes three years, it takes us to get good people, we can hire people in civilian positions and release policemen, so they don't do what these civilian positions can do. I know, for example. that in Oslo there are civilians who accept reviews. Is the Council of State willing to make a strategic commitment to an escalation, as the Left wishes, in civil positions every year so that we know that these civil positions can simply ensure that we have more policemen who can be out there among people and increase citizens' security? It's a strategic approach, and we'll look forward, and we can raise it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e312	As I said earlier today, and as I also said in the Storting yesterday, the government is working to get more civilians in to relieve the police-trained officials. So it's a strategy I think is absolutely necessary now. I also agree with the questioner that the fight for security is taking place every day, it is happening now. Therefore, the decision taken in 2003–2004 regarding admission to the Police College is what we are now harvesting from fruits. It was a low recording. That's why it's important that we get the recording up. I also want to say that the government in these days is working to look at the possibilities to expand the recording at the Police College – in addition to the already high recording. That's the maximum in relation to what the capacity of the Police College is. The situation — and the need — is totally dependent on it, especially on the new police working time regulations. We also need action now. That's why we believe that getting more civilians in will be important, while we have an active commitment. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e323	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e326	The Minister of Justice's problem is that he jumps from tear to tear, whichever case is in the media. I agree with Odd Einar Dørum that the security of people is at the heart of the policy. That task fails the Minister of Justice when he is not willing to make concrete proposals to secure more policemen in the streets. Extended admission at Police College is very good. The Minister of Justice says that action is being taken to increase the number of civilians. Well, this is a budget question. If it were the case that the Minister of Justice actually wanted to release more policemen so that we got more police in the streets and more security out in the districts, he could have proposed appropriations, so that it would have been possible to employ more civilians in positions within the police where it is actually possible. My question is, when does the Council of State say that he is ‘working’, when do the specific proposals for senior measures and more civilians come into the police? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e337	It is not the case that measures have not been promoted in the draft state budget for next year to include more police staff, rather the opposite. That's what I've been trying to explain. We have corrected the cuts to which the Right contributed – among others. against the Oslo Police — in the last state budget when they were in government. Most recently, the revised national budget has increased the appropriations for the operation of the police in general, but also for the Oslo police. It's a growth that we want to continue next year. I mean, the $60-70 million bet. kr is not to jump from tue to tue, as the representative Sanner says. So we are in the process of a major reform on DNA testing, which will help to release resources in the police districts, and which, of course, can be used to increase manpower. But when we're in a situation where there's a shortage of cops, we have to find solutions with civilians to relieve. That work is already in progress. Among other things, we have arrests are under way in some police districts where we take civilians. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] So here it works.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e344	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, it is a sign that the speaker will stop talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e347	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e352	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e355	I'll give the Minister of Justice a chance to talk a little bit more. Trust enjoys Norwegian police, fortunately, but in too many cases the police cannot provide the assistance that the citizens need and that they actually have reason to expect. I will mention two examples, such as: TV 2 has presented. An hardware dealer who has repeatedly taken criminals on the peach gets the criminal to sign that he recognizes the relationship. The notification is equally complete – not once, but every time. Another example, which is even fresher: an organisation that is initially to work on integration receives significant public funding for this. The Directorate for Integration notes that public funds are being misused here. They review, spend a lot of time and effort on it, and report. Then we can watch the television show that the police in Oslo are saying sorry, they're not prioritizing that kind of thing, and they're dedicating the matter. My question to the Minister of Justice is therefore: Does he not also feel that there is a limit to what people will accept before it goes into the sense of justice, when criminals are not actually punished, but indirectly rewarded for the untruths that have been committed? Does the Minister of Justice agree that we are now, regardless of governments and budgets, in a situation where we are dangerous near a border where we put people's general sense of justice to a serious test?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e366	I agree that in the cases where the perpetrator is known, where the issue of culpability is reasonably clear, and where serious criminal offences have been committed, the police should of course rectify it. The individual cases that have been brought forward – without going into them worth mentioning, I do not have the competence or the ability to do so – are not lucky for the police. So we have a situation in both the police and the criminal services – I also want to mention it – where more things are actually solved. You do it faster, more efficiently and, to my knowledge, better too. There has been a development for which the previous government will also have to be honored and which will help us to gain that side of the activities of the police and justice sector in order to assess the type of confidence to be given to the sector. It's important. The same applies to criminal services, where we often hear about the few failures that occur, whether there is an escape or drug use in prison. But the situation in criminal custody is getting better and better. The reconciliation queue is now more than halved, despite the fact that the government does not release the prisoners earlier. We've tightened up on practice, show the last numbers. It is important to have an overall view of assessing trust and results against both police and criminal justice. This sector is so up to those degrees depending on confidence that we have to be particularly vigilant against the kind of results that we have seen in the newspapers lately. I hope and believe that precisely the measures that are now being taken to improve the percentage of information – in particular the DNA effort – will improve the police's ability to solve more of the crime that needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e377	I think there are very few around in the whole country that have little trust in the police. Most people have great confidence in the police. What many dots know about is the obvious lack of capacity that is in many places. I don't think we're getting away from the fact that the operating budgets are incredibly tight, no matter how we turn it around. I would like to draw the Minister of Justice's attention to another matter that we now have in the run-up. There are potential serious sexual abuses against, in part, young children. We had a few years ago the Pendulum action, which was also supposed to straighten out possible abuses against young children. A third of the cases were ordered for various reasons, including for capacity reasons. My question is, in view of this big issue we might have under way, can the Minister of Justice guarantee that we will do what is in our power to reveal this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e386	I can guarantee that we will do everything in our power to attack this type of serious crime. I am pleased that the Stortinget was gathered around the last budget effort to strengthen the efforts of Kripos, in particular in order to clarify the issues of child abuse and to reveal several of those behind, among other things. assault pictures. There the government has done in particular two things that we think are important. Firstly, we aim to establish a police station on the Internet – this is given special means – that will work actively to identify who is behind the images of abuse, and we have intensified international cooperation, among others. by strengthening Interpol's work in Lyon by between 2 and 3 million. kr, precisely directed towards this work. I'm glad it seems that in the last case you now have a better grip around as serious matters as this actually is, than what we've had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e394	There will be three follow-up questions – first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e397	This will not be a budget debate. Nevertheless, the Government has a goal of resolving 36 pst. by the criminal cases in the country. That means 64 pst. of the cases will not be clarified. As far as police personnel are concerned, we are the worst in the Nordic region. Both Sweden and Denmark are much higher than us. It's great that the Minister of Justice is now betting on increasing the admission to the Police College. But there must also be resources to employ these police officers once they have completed their education. The Norwegian police can't afford it today. Yesterday, in a hearing with the Oslo police chief, it was stated that the Oslo police had to reduce staffing if they were to stay at the 2007 level. My question to the Minister of Justice will then be: What will the Minister of Justice do to keep the police in Norway at least at 2007 level?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e406	I think we need to assess the power and resources of the police from a broader perspective than just looking at the actual police appropriations. They're increasing. There's no doubt about it. It may be bad to realize about the opposition, but it is the case that police appropriations have increased. Then it's also crucial to give the police better tools to solve more crime. I've mentioned DNA, which is a huge effort on our part, and I've mentioned the emergency network. It must be invested in safety equipment and weapons, but also in cars. We're going to get up to date with weapons and vests by 2008. I have mentioned many times that we want to increase the recording, and I think it is also important to look at how we organize the police work. The measures taken to combat recriminal crime in Oslo, which has been important to the Government, have contributed to the emergence of a very serious crime, in a way that is different from what you might have traditionally done in the past, especially in relation to the ability to withdraw money and follow the flow of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e415	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e418	The trust in the police depends on the ability of the police to respond. Cooperation between police and other public bodies, such as the social security system and the customs system, is enormously important in order to detect and effectively pursue criminal relations. In a meeting with Oslo's police chief yesterday, we heard that he had had a dialogue with the social security system that they should not report more cases than the Oslo police could handle. At the same time, this fall we have heard of two cases in which the Tollvesen notified the police – one case involving a record seizure of doping drugs and another case involving some Romanians in possession of mini-bank fraud equipment. In both cases, the police replied that they had no capacity – they could not move out, they could not follow up the cases. Does the Council of State feel that this is satisfactory? What does he want us to do to achieve better cooperation between public authorities – so that not a government does not reveal what can be criminal matters, while the police on the other hand do not have the ability to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e427	Firstly, there is a resource question. That is why, once again, I believe it is important to strengthen the police's budgets and provide opportunities for increased staffing, as we have had in the past today. At the same time, we have a challenge in relation to cross-sectoral cooperation between the police, the social security system and the tax system, but I would also like to say in relation to child protection authorities, which have often been looked at, among other things. professional secrecy rules as an obstacle to cooperation. I think that we have to break down those boundaries to a greater degree than before, whether there are real boundaries in the law, or there are limits in our heads, that we imagine that this is the way it is. For example, I want to do this. promote the establishment of Barnas Hus in Norway. There, the police are working with other authorities to detect and help with child abuse. This is a very good example of how to get more effect not only in police research but also in rehabilitation. It can be a good model for other areas in the fight against crime. We're opening two Barna's House now before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e434	Bea Lymph – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e437	We have major challenges today also in our northernmost country in this area. In Finnmark, we all too often experience that the police do not have the resources to move out in connection with serious incidents. We have very large distances within the county, the population lives very widely, we have different languages to deal with, and a lot of jobs are unoccupied. In such a situation, the chief of police in West Finland, Arild Aaserød, has thought a new one in the fall. According to the media, he has proposed to solve the manning problems in the police, among other things. by providing fit locals with a lightning course in police work so that they can maintain law and order when police resources do not extend. According to the same media, Deputy Police Director Vidar Refvik says that we just have to count on a long time off for the police in Finnmark. Does the Minister of Justice share these points of view – that in Finnmark there may be a solution to the use of some kind of civil protection, and that we only have to accept a long withdrawal period, which can often be several hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e444	In the Soria Moria Declaration and also in the first acts of the Government in the first year, we made it very clear that the power exercised by the police in Norway is to be handled by the police as a public agency. I believe that this principle has only become more important and important, especially at a time when we see the crime scene becoming more complicated, and in many cases also more serious. But it is also important because we see that the police handle methods and means that make it necessary to have specific competence and special emphasis on enforcement. That's why I think it's totally unacceptable to think of a direction in which we're developing, among other things. Civil protection to deal with serious criminal acts. This is the task of the public. That's the government's task, that's my task. That's why it's so important to strengthen this effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e449	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e452	My question goes to Navarsete State Council. There is one – we can say – railway growth across the country, where everyone is talking about launching exciting, beautiful and new visions, where South Norway, at least if everything were to be launched at the same time, would look like a holed sweat cheese. I think this is a great commitment, which I share. I share the dreams of a South Norway with an effective railway effort. For a former chairman of the Bergensbane Museum and railway enthusiast, this is great. I know the story of the proud moment when this room made a decision to use one state budget on one project of sharp voting, as we say, where the two parties that were here stood against each other, and where Oslo stood against the rest of the country. But I have to say that I am a little surprised that environments – people, politicians – that in the past would not spend 1 million. kr on the railway, now will spend many hundreds of billions on railway operations. But we also have to be happy about that and give expression is great. But then there's a saying that it's better with a bird in hands than ten on the roof. I'm afraid in the future, in the railway discussion, we're going to stick with railway seminars and not with railway development. I'm very concerned about how we can translate all this great railway enthusiasm and all the dreams of new railway technology for the benefit and – I would say – medium-term projects, which enable us to slowly, but safely, be brought towards a new rail-Norway. And I have a concern that there will soon be only a discussion about the great visions, and not about the reasonable appropriations, bets and projects ahead. So my slightly open first question to the Council of State goes in this direction: what thoughts have the Council of State made about how all this railway enthusiasm can be translated into concrete initiative in the next few years? How can the ten birds on the roof become one bird in the hands of the council?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e466	For a long time, there has been a strong focus on high-speed trains in Norway. There have also been discussions in this room, and it is as a follow-up to them that I commissioned a German consulting company to go deeper into some selected projects. The previous government was busy having a closer look at this. It started with Oslo–Trondheim and Oslo–Göteborg, and was later expanded with the high-speed ring in South Norway and Haukelibana, which are two projects that have different interests behind them. The report, which I have received from the German consulting company via the Railway Agency, which has been the performer of this work, shows that the high-speed rail can be realizable. These are the words that the Council of State has used in its presentation. But I have also said that there are many uphills before one can possibly realize this, and there are many discussions that need to be done at political level. The first discussions will be on whether to go further into matter, because the answers we have now received are not good enough to decide whether to go in for a building. They're an intermediate station to discuss whether to go into closer distributions, which will cost separation with money, and of course will also take some time. The response will be provided by the Government in the National Transport Plan, to be submitted in December 2008. Until then, I hope for an open political debate. Until 1 December, the report is out of date – yes, it is also out of date. It is open for everyone to record to the Railway Agency. Furthermore, as I said, I want to have this matter in the public debate. But not least in the discussions the Government is going to bring forward, this will be a big theme. So the state council hasn't made up a point yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e473	I thank you for that answer. My question went even further, in terms of what we can get to the next 5–10–15 years that are very good for Railway Norway and for the environment and climate, for which we need to find important solutions over the next decades. Then we can dream about the new Railway Norway a generation or two ahead. It's like, no matter how you move here, the big challenges lie in getting out and out of the capital in almost every direction. Anyway, these new forward steps will have to go out and out of the capital. In any case, projects out and out of the capital will be useful for medium-term railway development. For example, SV won a heroic victory in negotiations with former State Council Opseth on the Ringerik Tunnel in a trade with the Lærdal Tunnel – I think it was. The Ringerix tunnel is a good example of how to significantly reduce the travel distance to Bergen, how to provide Oslo with significantly more efficient surrounding areas, and how to start in the future. Where does the Ringerix Tunnel stand in the head of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e480	Some of the most positive things about the report we've been given on the high-speed rail are, of course, a confirmation that it makes sense to intensify the planned projects that are not least located in the intercity area. That's what this government is doing, when we've increased the budget to the railway by $1 billion, and so it gets speed on the development of the railway, not least in this important area. We also prioritise the funds so that we can complete the major projects, instead of launching many projects, which will then be very slow to complete. When it comes to the Ringerix Tunnel, it's an important project that hasn't been prioritised that far. We are now following up the existing national transport plan provided by the previous government, but which fortunately is in addition to funds from the bulk of the population and followed up by this government. So the Ringerix Tunnel is in my head a very important project in relation to short travel times between Oslo and Bergen and not least to important surrounding areas to Oslo, and he's going to be reconsidered in the next NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e487	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e490	Now I'm interpreting the question from the representative Sponheim more in relation to what the government wants to do with today's railway, and not the high-speed idea. But let me still follow it up. I note that the Council of State says that the answers now available are not at all good enough to make a decision in relation to high-speed trains in Norway, and there I agree with the Council of State. But I ask the Council of State to see what is in today's edition of the Newspaper, because there it is signalled from the negotiating comrades of the Central Party and the sitting government in the field of climate communication, that both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to make a coup by already deciding to build high-speed trains in Norway at approximately NOK 300 billion. My question is, what are the thoughts of the Council of State about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e499	I have registered the essay in the Newspaper today, and then the Council of State thought that the three parties have forgotten very quickly what it is like to sit in government, and that one must have a pretty good basis for making such a big decision. A decision is made whether to build a high-speed rail in Norway. It has quite a lot of consequences for existing networks, which have to be clarified, and of course for trasés, for the environment and, of course, not least, the economic consequences. Of course, they are free to take this into account in the debate on the climate communication, and there they will meet constructively from the Government. But I think we need a little bit more time and a thorough discussion before we can make a final decision about building start.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e504	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e507	I don't think the climate comrades will demand that it be built high-speed, but the council will have to wait and look at the requirements that are coming. Some of the things that can be done about, however, is the Westfold Railway, which runs on a trasé from 1882, and where veteran railway enthusiasts from all over Europe meet to drive the old line, which is today's trajectory. The new line from Barkåker to Tønsberg has been designed, but was not mentioned in one word in the state budget. In Vestfold, there is a railway uprising in the red-green parties, a casting representative of Gullvåg and an alternate representative of Egeland from SV breeds in the newspapers about the lack of bet on Vestfoldbanen. Why does the Government deprioritise the development of the Westfold Railway, which is so important in the climate and environmental discussion, and which is part of the intercity triangle in the East? After all, the representatives of the government parties promised NOK 6 billion to the Westfold Railway in the previous election campaign. That's not how far a crown has gone into development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e514	It is wrong that the government is depriving the Westfold Railway. What's right is that we're prioritizing the completion of the projects that you've started. Unlike the legacy I received from the previous government, where a priority was to start a project, we want to complete a project. The choice we're facing here with the limits, which are actually much right than they would be under an alternative government – where we even take a little of the lag from 2006 in next year's budget – is to reduce the rate of expansion at Sandvika-Lysaker, Lysaker Station, to start up other projects. That's what I think is bad social economy. The completion of the major projects in the west corridor will not at least benefit Westfold. Then, of course, Vestfold is going to be started and finished, but we have to do one thing at a time, and I choose to finish big projects instead of starting at very many people who will be standing half-finished for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e519	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e522	We probably haven't forgotten what it means to sit in government. In meeting with the Transport Councils, we are constantly reminded of it, so we don't have the opportunity to forget it, to say it like this. I'm going to drill a little bit more into what we have to do before the high-speed bet comes. Indeed, it is assumed from the German consulting company that what is in the future in the NTP must be completed before one can initiate the high-speed operation. This involves double tracks in the west corridor, completion of the Vestfold track, interconnection with the Sørlandsbanen, construction of the Ringerik tunnel, new double tracks Oslo-Ski and double tracks Eidsvoll-Hamar, all in place before 2020. This is a solid challenge, it also sees the Christian People's Party. My question to the Minister is therefore: is it possible to resolve this without finding back to the Soria Moria idea of project financing and funding in addition to the annual budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e532	Of course, it depends on the size of the annual budgets. What is in the lead from the consultant company is that, as was pointed out, the plans for development, not least in the intercity area and on other major routes, must be completed before starting on a high-speed rail. Of course, it is possible to do within the existing budget, but then that budget must be increased. It has this government taking hold of, we've already increased the budget by $1 billion. My work, and the government's good work, obviously depends on us intensifying railway development, because it's important. It's particularly important in the people's regions, where far more than today can travel collectively if we get an offer with higher frequency and better capacity. It is the objective, and it requires project funding, whether the budget framework is large enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e537	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e540	My question goes to Navarsete State Council. We are now well-known – both within the Government and I thought that it was also very well known within the Storting – regarding the core network investigation that was presented both to the government and to landfill in December 2006, that we have huge deficiencies in our infrastructure. The Stemnet investigation points out that we have a lag of NOK 230 billion on our tribal roads, that the existing railway actually has a lag of approximately NOK 90 billion, and we see daily deficiencies in road and rail. In this context, I record that the main focus of almost all other parties is on high-speed trains. It's almost become a hallelujah mood around the country, yes a religious revival almost, where you only think of high-speed trains. Despite the fact that the political environment is fully aware that the existing infrastructure is in the process of becoming obsolete. It's almost a crisis. Our tunnels, 974 in the number, have a lag of $2 billion, our bridges have a lag of $3 billion. When the Progress Party then makes serious proposals to take this back in 20 years instead of 50 years, we are almost characterised as unprofessional who will blow up the Norwegian economy. My question to the Council of State is: is there any possibility of building high-speed trains within a 20-year period amounting to DKK 300 billion, and at the same time re-entering our existing infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e549	It is quite right that the representative, Mr Sandberg, says, that we have great challenges because our priorities have not been high enough by changing governments over a long period of time. The best must not be the enemy of the good one, and one must be allowed to figure out the high speed path as a future bet. One here must think about the short and long term. I don't think anyone's going to see a high-speed train completed within 20 years. What we see in the 20-year period is to complete what the representative Sahl calculates, which will be part of a possible high-speed bill, which is part of the current action programme, which is to be expanded at the next NTP. Here we must have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We need to focus more on maintenance, we need to upgrade existing road and rail networks, and we need to take the infrastructure investment needed to move forward. The government is working on this, and in the work we now have with the National Transport Plan, we are forced to be able to stockpile our thoughts so that we can think of two thoughts now in the short term, but not least distinguish between bets that we are going to have in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e558	Everything is about a future bet. The core network investigation states that at the current rate of investment in existing infrastructure it will take 50 years before we get an acceptable standard on the network. Then it's interesting to measure it against maybe having to bet billions of dollars on high-speed trains, because then you have to choose at some point: do you have to have both in the bag and in the bag? Should the existing infrastructure be forgotten? Should the regions not be covered by high-speed trains be forgotten? Do you have to forget ways? Should the existing railway be forgotten and bet on a high-speed train? I think it is absolutely right that the Government and the Council of State should signal to the Norwegian people before they get a coup in the climate announcement. Today, both the Transport Economic Institute, the Norwegian Environmental Protection Association and not least different economic professors go out and call the investment on high-speed trains unprofessional. Then I think maybe you need to signal more where you want to bet, in order to get a good infrastructure in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e565	There's still talk of a bet on a high-speed train here. As of today, we have no bets on high-speed trains. We have a statement from a German consulting firm that mentions the possibilities. That statement raises a lot of questions that we have to go deeper into. I think we should let talk about a bet that at least isn't there yet, but that can be there once in the future. What I want to make quite clear is that it is completely unmistakable that we should neglect the development and maintenance of the road network in this country, which is such an important blood vessel system for the whole country. It is also unmistakable that we should forget about existing networks. Just the last one is interesting because one in the report states that a lot of the existing network has to be upgraded anyway before one can think of a high-speed path, and before it can be used in such a bet, if one chooses to continue with it. But this councillor, who probably doesn't sit in the chair when there's a possible bet on the high-speed track, because I think there's a bit ahead in the loop, will at least be very clear on it. So that discussion I reject.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e572	For the sake of time, the President will accept two follow-up questions – first Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e575	The Council of State has followed up the proposals of the previous Government to carry out high-speed trains in an excellent manner. She also listened to signals from the Right and Stortinget and made sure that Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Kristiansand were included in the investigation. We must not turn this debate on high-speed rail investment into a business economy issue. It's getting too simple. These are ideological and ethical issues related to social construction and the environment, how the high-speed rail can contribute to increased mobility and value creation and, in particular, what such a project will mean for the development of Norwegian technology competence and research. But this will probably require new forms of organisation and funding. Recently, a report on OPS, Public Private Cooperation, describing significant gains, implementation rates and other aspects of transport investment was submitted. When the State Council is now working on the high-speed issue, will it also enter into assessments of any OPS organisation to resolve such a large, historic task?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e584	I answer a question about the existing plans that will be part of a high-speed concept in Norway. I think they can be realized within the existing budgetary system. At the press conference when I received the report from the German consulting firm, I said, and I know that if a good deal of going into a high-speed concept, it will challenge our budgetary system, because it will require so large outlays over a few years that I think we have to assess whether we have to look at other types of funding, such as. project financing will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e589	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e592	I am very pleased that the Minister now expressed what we have been engaged in in the Christian People's Party, namely that if we are to realise high-speed trains, we must look in the future at opportunities for a different form of funding. But as I said in my previous question, if we are to realize the already existing plans, so that the basis is to be there to get high-speed trains started, the Christian People's Party believes that we must also look there for new ways to invest. Then it's an excellent idea to re-examine the Soria Moria idea of project funding, which also points right here. The Minister then expressed herself so that she would probably not be able to participate in the high-speed operation in Norway. That is what this representative can sign on. But I wonder, isn't it that we won't get any signals in the NTP about this? For it is very important that there are some signals about which direction it is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e602	As I said to a previous question, the government will answer what assessments we will make in the coming years, in the NTP that will be presented in December 2008. It will answer whether to go into more detail design, and will of course also answer whether the Government sees it as appropriate to realize the high-speed rail in Norway in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e607	The size goes to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e610	My question goes to Navarsete State Council. The Bondevik II government opened up for the realisation of major road projects in a new way. OPS funding or so-called Public Private Cooperation was provided on three major road projects. This means that the builder is given the responsibility to build the road and at the same time the responsibility for operation and maintenance for 25 years. In the Right’s view, all three projects, E39 Klett–Bårdshaug, E39 Lwagal–Flekkefjord and E18 Grimstad–Kristiansand, have been successful examples of Public Private Cooperation. When the red-green government took over, OPS was put in a drawer. The scheme was to be evaluated and the new magic word was project financing, which the representative Sahl was also involved in. The representatives of the government parties were very enthusiastic about project funding, which would speed up progress and improve efficiency. The surprise was therefore great when the government itself in the Yellow Book last year, page 102, punctuated its own Soria Moria formulation by saying: ‘The Government considers that road and rail investments should continue to be granted in accordance with the budgetary principles in force and that no debt financing scheme should therefore be established.’ On the same page, the Government writes: ‘In the case of the OPS model, it is not appropriate to propose further use of this scheme until the evaluation of projects under way.’; The evaluation is now available and is very positive. The evaluation suggests that construction time will be greatly reduced, that resources will be used more efficiently, and that users and builders are very satisfied. With this backstop, the question becomes simple to the Council of State: Will the Government propose that OPS projects become an instrument for the implementation of large-scale transport projects in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e629	The Transport Economic Institute and Dovre International delivered an evaluation report on the three OPS projects on 25 October. The evaluation report shows that there has been a benefit through the rapid implementation of the projects. However, the report does not show any financial gain at OPS. OPS is another way of financing a project, where the greatest gain is that one has financed the entire project, so that one does not have to wait for the annual budget for the continuation of road or rail projects. On a previous question today, which went on the railways and on the Westfold, I gave an answer that shows that I have to follow up the thinking and the positive experiences of OPS, by having full respect for the implementation of already started projects and by securing the budget resources of the individual budget years, so that it does not become like a sadly experienced experience in the past, a patchwork when it comes to road projects, where one builds a little here and a little there, and then a wait for new budget resources. It's a technique that I want to continue, where at least one achieves the win by OPS, and where one completes the project within the budget framework and thus does not get the second, more negative OPS experience, that one absorbs the funding of the projects many years in advance. It commits to the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e636	Right will end road construction at half speed. That's what we've actually experienced in recent years, because there's been a lot of money. It has neither the previous government nor this government nor any other responsibility for it, but that's the way we've set up the road development projects here in the country. For example: the one OPS project that has now been completed, says the project manager that it was done in four years, while normally it would take eight years to implement it. The funding is different. We know that in other countries it is possible to borrow, among other things. in the case of a State, in order to obtain more reasonable financing conditions. It is, of course, the main problem for an OPS project today that loans have to be raised in higher interest rate private financial institutions. The question is then: does the Government wish to move forward now when the OPS evaluation has arrived and seriously consider whether new forms of financing can be found within the OPS regime but with more favourable financing conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e645	There's no money shortage cork in the Norwegian state or in society or today, so I guess that's not where our biggest dilemma lies. In today's road and rail development, we have a challenge when it comes to the level of costs, which is not about lack of money, but about the fact that we have a market that is quite hot. Unfortunately, prices have gone up a lot as a result. The evaluation of the OPS project was ordered as part of and part of the basis for the Government’s work on the National Transport Plan. It shall be submitted in a period of one year. Unfortunately, I have to tell the representative of Greece that he has to wait for the NTP to get the answer that has been requested. But it is clear that in time for that presentation, I want to look at all aspects of OPS and project funding and discuss them, so that one can provide an answer to the Storting for what is actually being requested here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e652	There will be two follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e655	Let me first say that the last ten minutes in Stortinget have been uplifting. Many signals from the Council of State seem to me to have been very positive, both what goes on the plans for the high-speed rail system and what goes on project financing and use of OPS. In fact, I interpret the Council of State to the point that the Council of State wants more of both project finance and public private cooperation. So when this evaluation is to be carried out and, where appropriate, presented to the Grand Council in an appropriate manner, I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is also possible to extend the idea of Public Private Cooperation to cover several transport modes in the context – i.e. to think intermodally, with both port, railway and road in the same project, and also in the context of Public Private Cooperation. This would lead to great progress and progress in addressing the major challenges of all the delays we have, and not least it would create an efficient and rational transport system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e660	Thinking intermodally and seeing the different modes of transport in context is something that the government is very busy about. We are working very well with the Ministry of Coastal and Fisheries in the preparation of the next national transport plan, precisely to see the different modes of transport even better in context than one has until today. Then I must say that the representative Sandberg might have interpreted the council positively. But I'm always happy that we can have good dialogue. It's always nice, at least when it's for big business representatives. When it comes to OPS, I say that I want to look at the positive effects, i.e. what goes on in a faster implementation time. I didn't say that OPS is necessarily the answer to that. I'm busy having an efficient road and rail development that is the greatest profit for society. The OPS evaluation then makes some input that it is important that we take a closer look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e669	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e672	It's good that we can end a hectic question hour with a good mood and a feeling that we're on a positive track. I also saw the response from the Minister for OPS, which we have basically been through in several questions, as positive in the sense of assessing the different positive aspects of this. There have been several things mentioned here, as rapid performance. It's been about economics, where it's probably not that much to win. But there is one more side that I want to ask the Minister about, and that is the responsibility of an entrepreneur to maintain the road for 20 years after the road is built. What does it have to say for quality? We have experienced recently, especially with the tunnels, that the quality of construction has not been so good. Is it the case that this report shows that the quality is improved when the same contractor is responsible for the follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e680	It would be a mistrust of the industry that performs various tasks for the State Road Administration, if I were to make the connection that if the builder himself is to be in charge of maintenance, he would do a better job than if he were to deliver a project to the State Road Administration. I really hope that I'm a connection that we shouldn't do. I hope that the Norwegian developers and this industry of entrepreneurs are so serious that we should not make such a connection. We've had some unfortunate events in tunnels and on projects, but I don't want to do the connection that the representative Sahl is doing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e685	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e691	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn. Question 6, from the representative Tord Lien to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr to the Minister for Transport, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Questions 22 and 23, from the representatives of Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Anders Anundsen, respectively, to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has left. These questions will be answered before question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e708	We go to question 1, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister of Finance. Svein Fletten is not present in the hall, so this question falls away.The question was raised later, cf. page 357.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e729	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e743	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e750	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «The Government, after consulting proposals for amendments to the accounting regulation, which require municipal and county authorities not to keep accounts in accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Act. The General Organisation of Trade and Sevice Industries considers, in letters of consultation dated 19 October, that this could give such establishments a competitive advantage in areas where they provide services in competition with private individuals and that it could lead to cross-subsidies. Will the Government ensure that the proposal ensures a level playing field?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e759	Let me first make it clear that what the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has proposed is that municipal and state-owned enterprises should not be obliged to comply with accounting laws, but that they can comply with municipal accounting rules. I would also like to make it clear that when we talk about municipal companies that run the industry, we mean companies that sell services in a market, with the aim of making money. Thus, the Ministry’s proposal does not apply to companies operating welfare services which are financed by public funds. In any case, such undertakings shall not comply with the accounting laws but shall be liable in accordance with the local authorities' rules. The Ministry's proposal is based on the principle that municipalities should be free to assess whether businesses engaged in economic activity should comply with the accounting law. The size of an enterprise's commercial activities may vary, and municipalities should be able to assess the best-management accounting for the purpose of creating the enterprise. I would like to stress that the choice of accounting system must be of a wide variety of considerations, not just to be able to compare with private companies. Basically, this is a question of how the municipalities should organise and control their operations, and I think that the municipalities themselves are the best ones to evaluate it. HSH is busy with the fact that private and non-profit enterprises have equal conditions to compete with municipal enterprises. In its hearing response, HSH draws particular attention to its members who operate services in the fields of health, care and culture. As mentioned, the Ministry’s proposal does not apply to municipal enterprises that operate such welfare services. In any case, such undertakings shall comply with their accounting rules. Consequently, the Ministry’s proposal will not change the conditions of competition for the activities referred to by HSH. When it comes to the question of cross-subsidisation between enterprises funded by public funds and enterprises that make money in a market, choice of accounting system will not affect this either. The Ministry's proposal does not open up illegal public support. In any case, the municipalities must comply after cross-subsidies are illegal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e772	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that it is important that politicians have good governance information. That's what this is all about. I would like to take a concrete example. The Church's Bymission was involved in a test project on municipal home services in Oslo. They protested, because they thought the premise for competition was wrong. Then, Secretary-General Sturla Stålsett of the Church's Bymition spoke to the Finanzavisen on 29 October: ‘Then it is important that there is no form of hidden subsidisation in our competitors. If not, prices and quality are reduced on an unclear basis. We are concerned that there is transparency, equal conditions for all." Does the Council not see that this type of different basis of comparison provides a poor governance base for politicians and that it can weaken public service production if private, including welfare, are not allowed to do so on equal terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e784	I see that it is important that there are transparent conditions in this area as well. But let me make it clear that the questioner is based on a note that is now listening and that does not apply to this area – which does not apply to welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e789	My question is about competition on equal terms. A related field in which very important in the field of public service production is the regulation of public acquisitions, which I assume the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is familiar with. After all, the public sector buys services and products for more than 200 billion kroner each year. There is a tender threshold of SEK 500000, and the Government has written in the Government Declaration that this threshold should be raised to EU level, which is EUR l,8 million. kr. This means that large parts of public procurement will be exempted from competition. This could easily lead to increased problems of camaraderie and corruption, which could lead to higher prices and lower offers to the population, and would lead to lower conditions for business to compete. Does not the Council of State not see that this type of competition policy weakens the well-being of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e798	Of course, the government is busy following the current legislation, and otherwise at any time specify that it is as clean and transparent as possible. At the same time, there are enough political lines in this room on which freedoms the municipalities should have to organise their own activities. If I don't think completely wrong, this has been a theme several times. On the right, the municipalities want to apply accounting laws as far as possible, while today's government, with more – a broad majority – thinks that municipalities should be able to organise their operations in line with local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e805	The size goes back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e812	The question really went away when the questioner, Svein Flätten, was not present when the question was advertised. But the Minister of Finance has nevertheless gone a long way and said that she can be here for a few more minutes and answer the question. The size is grateful to the Minister of Finance for this benevolent attitude, and the President has, after much doubt, chosen to let the doubt fall to the benefit of the defendant, Svein Flätten – so he gets to ask his question anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e815	I thank not only the Minister of Finance for his goodwill, but also the President. ‘The definition of commercial parks by the Directorate of Customs and Fees has, among other things, given Kongsberg Business Park significant reductions in electricity charges. The attitudes to these issues hinder the development of modern parks with integrated electricity supply and thus efficiency gains. In autumn 2005, the previous Minister of Finance asked the Directorate to look at the legislation in order to achieve more purposeful definitions, but nothing has happened. Does the Council agree with its predecessor that the matter should be followed up by the Directorate and, if so, when?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e824	Under today's electricity charging legislation, industrial enterprises may pay reduced rates under conditions of correct registration according to the statistical central agency's sections. The problem for business parks is that enterprises providing joint services to industry that are themselves registered in code that grants a reduced fee are excluded from the relevant codes. The purpose of linking the delimitation of the activities considered to be industry in the context of charges to the classification of economic activities is, inter alia, to the classification of economic activities. that it shall not be necessary for the network operator or charging authorities to assess the type of activity carried out by each undertaking. The Ministry is currently examining the possibility of changing the rules relating to commercial parks and the rights of district heating producers to a reduced fee. This raises specific issues of EEA law that need to be carefully assessed. The background to this is that exemption or reduced rates for industry are initially regarded as State aid under the EEA Agreement and can only be granted within the framework approved by ESA in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e838	I thank you for your answer. Does this mean that the department is now investigating this coding, this definition, and that the directorate is not in it? If so, as I understand it, when can we expect the Ministry to have its work completed – possibly its clearances from the EEA legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e845	I dare not say a deadline to Stortinget now. It's true, as Svein Flätten says, that it's now the department that looks at this. We are well aware of what the representative fleet is discussing, this food park in Kongsberg. We also have other examples of the same thing, where, on the basis of an appropriate organisation in commercial parks, it has been found – what to say – to work out certain tasks jointly, but this is not the case in the ESA legislation approved in 2004. That means that we have a job to do, but we can't forget that we're creating solutions that become problematic in relation to the EEA. That's the background that this is a work that takes some time. But we are aware of the problem, and I will come back to Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e850	I thank you for the follow-up here as well. I have a final question about this: what dialogue does the Ministry have with the food parks in question? These are kind of complicated situations. The different business parks have different situations. Is there any form of consultation or other dialogue that makes their problems clear to the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e857	If further contact with these food parks is necessary to elucidate the issue, we will of course ensure that this is the case. So far, I have understood that the problem is quite clear. The question here is whether it is possible to design a regulatory framework that does not raise issues of EEA law, and that makes it possible to resolve these issues within an understanding with ESA, which means that we do not have problems with our own perception in retrospect. However, if further information is needed, we will of course contact the food parks concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e862	We go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e869	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘For many years, the war-disabled home at Bæria in Kongsvinger served as a good place to get to when you needed it after effort, often with great stress, out in the world. Today the defense has not been given a corresponding suitable place, but it has been promised that it will be taken care of. How far has the Defence come in this work, and what has the Council of State done?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e878	Participation in international operations is demanding. The events of the last few days for our troops in Afghanistan seem to underline this very fact. The personnel participating in operations abroad in Norway should therefore feel confident that they will receive the follow-up they need. In recent years, we have done a lot to strengthen the follow-up of these personnel. A separate veterinary administration unit and an outpatient clinic have been established as a contact point for medical follow-up. Our veterans should be provided with advice on social and social rights, they should have access to professional health services, and they should also have an offer of recreational and well-being accommodation. The Government will facilitate the provision of such an offer to veterans by international service. I myself was at Bæria on May 8th this year, and in meeting with the veterans, I felt how important it is to be able to meet to talk about experiences and to process the impressions of the service. A welfare and recreational offer means too many, and the defence as a responsible employer must also be able to facilitate this. A welfare and recreational centre could contribute to an overall follow-up of the veterans. The Centre shall not be a health institution but a welfare service for veterans in order to meet them for mutual support and friendship. Different alternatives for the location and operation of such an offer have been evaluated by both internal and external working groups. The Ministry of Defence has now entrusted Defence Buildings with the task of developing a complete pre-project for a welfare and recreational centre, with a deadline by the end of the current month. So we're looking at a bunch of different options to get the best solution for a center like this. Defence construction assesses properties belonging to the Defence today and possible private solutions. In particular, the Ministry has requested that Bæria be seen as a possible location for a recreational and welfare centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e891	I thank the Council of State for an informative and good answer, as I interpret it, where I see a hope that it will be a solution. Now, unfortunately, this is not the first time I have asked this question in the Questionnaire. I had this up on 14 May 2003 and 13 October 2004, and still it is for investigation, unfortunately. There is no doubt, as the Council of State says, that there is a need for such a place. That's why I'm now raising the question for the third time. I really hope that there will be a solution within a short time – I noticed that the Council of State mentioned before the end of the month we are in now, November. I also interpret it there that Bæria can be a good place to be for veterans. The place was established in 1959, and the Council of State has been there. Can the Council of States promise that something will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e900	I want to say that we, and I, have actually worked on this matter just to get it into a good track. At the same time, I would like to say that it is important – even though Bæria has a special position in many veterans – that we do a total analysis. The defense owns, after all, very many properties. We have to consider whether these can be an alternative. We must also, if we are to take over Bäreia, have a proper state report on the challenges facing us, both for operations and for investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e905	Once again, I thank the Council of State. I just mentioned that in 2003 and 2004 I also stood here and asked about the same thing. I interpret the answer from the Council of State to the point that now something is going to happen, in respect of those who sacrifice everything they can sacrifice, in the work of peace outside the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e912	Yes, as I said, it's a pre-project on this in progress. There is a deadline set for November to give me a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e928	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e936	My question to the Minister for Transport is: ‘Before the Storting has dealt with and adopted amendments to the Road Traffic Act, new provisions on driving and rest periods have been drawn up. The Regulations shall apply from 1 August 2007 to all drivers of goods carrying a lorry with a gross vehicle weight exceeding 3,5 tonnes. In addition to a great deal of eagerness after EU adaptation, Norwegian authorities have also stepped up the regulations with spe­cific measures. How will the Council of State ensure that new driving and rest arrangements take good account of strange conditions in the transport industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e945	The new rules on running and sleeping time are important contributions to make it safer to use our roads. At the same time, they shall provide drivers with an acceptable working environment and a level playing field for carriers, irrespective of where they are established. In order to achieve these objectives, it is crucial that all parties to a transport operation facilitate, primarily through realistic planning of transport operations. The main elements of the new rules have been implemented in a new regulation on driving and sleeping time for road transport in the EEA, established under the current rules of the Road Traffic Act. Different parts of the new rules require changes in laws before they are adopted, and I will therefore present to the Stortinget proposals for such changes in road traffic laws during 2007. The purpose of the Regulation on running and sleeping time is to provide the most possible level playing field for the whole EEA area, including: because the individual carrier must be able to comply with the same legislation independently of each transport, driver or vehicle from which it comes. For this reason, there is very little room for having national special arrangements. The Ministry of Transport attaches great importance to not operating EU integration in extraneous situations, and a great deal of work has been done to keep under Norwegian law by way of derogation from EEA legislation in Norwegian territory. Proposals for the type of transport for which there should be exceptions in Norway have been widely heard by the public. Based on the input from the hearing bodies and on the concerns of road safety and drivers’ working environment, the derogations in force in the past have taken effect from 1 August 2008. The rules do not take full account of specific needs in Norway. I've got too many of them. make representations on the need for exemptions for the transport of live animals in addition to the new rules. I have established a temporary derogation for such transport and will work towards the EU in order to obtain a permanent derogation that takes into account the peculiarities of the transport of live animals. It has also come to record the need for increased running time in winter due to difficult driving. I don't see that this is as topical. Being a driver in Winter-Noreg can be demanding, and for the sake of road safety it is particularly important to take breaks and rest. The time needed to implement a current port has to be resolved when transport planning correctly. It is also particularly important that drivers have rest and rest places along the road network where they can take breaks and rest. It is therefore important that the Governing Body facilitates the existence of an adequate supply throughout the year for the number of seats and their satisfactory quality. I have therefore asked the State Road Service to allocate the status of supply in Norway in relation to our nearest neighbouring country, and to ask for a review of practices relating to the closure of individual rest areas in winter. I have also asked for an explanation of the specific plans of the State Road Service for the development and construction of rest and rest areas for [[State councils coughing]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e962	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is still remarkable that what I would call EU adaptation is so busy that, in parallel with the treatment of the so-called consent proposition in the Stortinget, a regulatory body has actually been drafted and sent out to the hearing. The party of progress still seems to be an unwise, unnecessary and regrettable practice. Then the Council of State has shown in its response that there are a number of issues related to existing legislation. Then is my first follow-up question: if it is necessary to look at some aspects of the regulations that have actually been introduced, is there also the basis for waiting a little for new regulations to apply, to continue to apply old rules, so as to review thoroughly the legislation that has been introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e971	I'm sorry -- I have the flu, and it makes me a little more troubled right now, but I'll try to answer it. We have postponed the implementation of some parts of the regulation until 1 August 2008, precisely to give ourselves room for action to review and adapt the agreement and disposal of personnel and driving resources, etc. to the rules of running and sleeping. [[The City Council coughs.]] We want to involve the relevant actors in the process until 1 August 2008. We are in good dialogue with the loading car association and others, and should continue to have it to ensure that we take into account any side effects that we did not have a good enough overview of when this regulation came into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e978	Thank you again! I'm sorry I have to bother the Council of State with an additional question despite a bit of troublesome voice and throat. I understand that, but I want to ask a little follow-up question. I still notice that parts of a piece of legislation that has just been introduced have been exposed for one year. This indicates that you have had a little too much speed, been a little too eager and not quite taken over the recordings that have been made. One of the recordings that has been made applies, inter alia, to: change in the exceptions, which I see as a strange sharpening. It affects, among others: the maintenance and supervision of roads, a very important area, which will affect transport and traffic across the whole country. So I repeat the call for the entire legislation to be postponed for one year, so that you get a thorough review of the proposal that you have previously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e985	Our dilemma has been that many of the recordings we have received came after the hearing period and after we put the regulation into effect. Hence, we have deferred some of the regulations. It may seem that some carriers and others have not been fully awake in the hour, because we did not get those recordings in the hearing that we have now received. Nevertheless, we wish to be flexible and take care of this. We need to have a good dialogue in the future. [[State councils coughing]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e990	The president gives a little pause while Borghild Tende gets ready for the next question. After a short break, said
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e995	We're ready. We might have had some more government councils here, so one could have relieved the Minister of Transport a little bit. Let's try it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1002	‘Traditional private car use is choking the Norwegian metropolitan cities, especially during the rush period. Collective action in our largest cities is of course important, but in addition to collective action, increasing investment in intelligent transport systems is an international trend. [[ITS]] Does the Council of State think this is an exciting trend, and in that case what will she do to facilitate this in our largest cities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1009	We're trying again! I am pleased with the question to Borghild Tende about what is being done to facilitate the use of ITS, intelligent transport systems and services in the largest cities of Norway. The ITS is an important tool in the work of the Government for better efficiency, security, accessibility, user adaptation and environment throughout the transport sector in Norway and when it applies to the rest of the world. The work includes: linked to the national transport plan. As part of the basis for NTP, a working group involving the Railway Agency, Avinor, the Coastal Administration and the State Road Administration have produced a report. The report has been converted to the book «Intelligent Transport Systems [[ITS]] ITS Norway is working on ITS competence and networking both in and between transport sectors, between governance, business and research, and through international cooperation, coordination, standardisation and harmonisation. In the ITS Norway unit, governance, business and research are members throughout the transport area. The Ministry of Transport has supported the establishment of ITS Norway. In order to ensure continuity and security of work, the 2008 State budget, for the first time, has been proposed for 1 million. kr to ITS Norway. They shall continue their efforts to facilitate ITS. ITS accounts for a lack of action and tools. All the use of modern information and communication technologies in the transport sector is covered by ITS. The ITS may facilitate a better transmission of information and thus improve cooperation and coordination in order to achieve the objective of a more efficient, environmentally friendly and safe transport sector. It is therefore important that actors put ITS into use where it can contribute to achieving such objectives. For example, ITS can facilitate the transport of goods from the car by rail and boat through a good logistical system of good information flows. It may also facilitate better electronic ticketing and travel information. This will strengthen public transport in relation to the use of own cars. ITS is a tool to make better use of the infrastructure and to facilitate road pricing and easier toll payment. The ITS may continue to wait a short while for clocks to help. I put great emphasis on ITS work, and in October I attended the fourteenth ITS World Congress – ‘ITS for a Better Life’ – with the talk ‘Green and Safe Transport’. ITS can Deliver Tools Required’. Congress was held in Beijing, where I also attended meetings about ITS in the Department of Road and Sea, for railways and for telecommunications. As pointed out by the representative Tenden, the ITS may be an element of imaging arrangements. For example, ITS can be used to check the availability and reservation of vehicles. The car use threshold is higher for an attendee in a car collective than for one with its own car. If the option is to buy your own car or car no. two, participation in car-collective less traffic and better environment. This may be a positive trend and even an area where ITS can be a good tool. Such a scheme is of a private nature and must therefore also be established within private – I should call it – collective schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1030	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have noticed that the Council of State has been in Beijing and has been given a good shot on the Internet site, where it said that Liv Signe Navarsete was concrete and interesting in his speech to the Congress. My follow-up question will then be: What concrete plans does the Minister for Transport have in the ITS area of our capital in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1037	The Minister of Transport does not have a separate action plan for ITS in the capital, but we have many areas where ITS is – and where we are working for it to be – a good tool for the whole transport sector. The most nearby, which is also a current tool in the Oslo area, is AutoPass. It is an ITS success, it is user-friendly, and it provides better basis for toll planning and management. Similarly, Shortsea XML is a system that strengthens the transport by ship to reduce the transport by car. We also have areas where we work so that ITS can reduce problems related to speed, to noise, to use safety harnesses in cars, to avoid front collisions and to avoid running off the road. I would like to answer it more after the follow-up question, but now there was no time to go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1044	Thanks for the answer. The Committee was just in Japan, where they focused heavily on ITS. So my next question must then be: will the Council of State be a driver? As I understood it in Japan, it was so that state, state, municipality, i.e. the region, cooperated, and that the state was also a driver both within it with car distribution and in other areas. So my questions are, can the Council of State promise to be a driver in this field, and will it be visible in the coming NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1053	The answer to both questions is yes. I want to be a driver in developing ITS as an even better tool in the transport sector. In order to give a concrete example, a system should now be tested where an actual warning can be given if the car comes across the opposite lane. There is an intelligent system in the car that is connected to the marking in the middle field, which allows a warning to be given. Merge into sidebars to prevent iterations. It is clear that such hijackings into road safety work can be invaluable. In addition, I am very positive about going along the lines that the representative Tenden takes up, i.e. how ITS can also become a tool in the car distribution system. I would like to go both in front and be a driver to further develop this system. I'm a technology optimist, and I think it's a lot to pick up both in efficiency and in traffic safety in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1068	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The European Commission presented on 25 September this year a Green Paper on urban transport policy dealing with different aspects of the growing traffic problems in larger cities, such as accessibility, environmental problems, safety and funding. The Green Paper is out for consultation until 15 March 2008. The Commission will then present concrete proposals which may also have EEA relevance. What will the Council of State do to allow a wide-ranging debate on the issues raised also in Norway as a basis for Norwegian involvement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1077	Today, we have major challenges related to environmental and transport problems and road safety in our major cities. A well-functioning transport system is necessary to ensure functional and environmentally friendly major cities. There is a need to curb the growth of car use and to increase the share of public transport. Traffic in big cities has a high number of cyclists and pedestrians, and it's a challenge to build a coherent walking and cycling road network in hilly city streets. It is important to facilitate traffickers and traffickers, and the Government is investing in measures aimed at vulnerable road users. The government has a high priority for urban policy. Urban transport policy is an important theme in the work on the next national transport plan. The Ministry of Transport has received the Green Paper on urban transport. The Ministry intends to send a question to the Commission on the matter before the deadline of March next year. In order to facilitate debate on the matter, a link to the Green Paper will be foreseen on the Internet pages of the Ministry of Transport. Interested parties will be invited to make their contributions to the Commission in this connection. A letter will also be sent to central actors inviting them to comment on the Green Paper and requesting the Ministry of Transport to receive a copy of the Commission's recordings as part of its own work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1086	I thank you for the answer, which I see as positive. I think it's important that, in addition to the development of our own policies, we also have a look at what's happening around us. We share many of the same problems, and we might also have something to add to the follow-up to the Green Paper. But the most important thing is that we check out which parts of it might come back in the form of directives and thus influence our own policy design. Then I think it is important that we also have that debate with us. There is one element of the active European policy that the Government has taken the initiative to bring the Storting into being at an earlier stage than in the final phase of the work on directives. The question is whether the Council of State will also try to involve the Storting, in particular the Communications Committee, in this preparatory work, so that they can also have a word in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1095	I fully agree with Mr Hansen that it is important that the Stortinge can also express its view of different regulations in the EU. Our dialogue with the Stortinge goes largely through the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, where the Minister for Trade has also met to raise various issues that are important to Norway, and on which it is important to be able to provide information and input. I don't have a position at this point in time as to whether this is a matter for the extended Foreign Affairs Committee, but I'm going to take the tape with me and evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1100	Then I thank you for the additional response, and I will save the vote of the Council of State for further answers in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1109	‘The school leisure scheme at Okstad school in Trondheim would recently travel to Røros, but the NSB refused to carry a group of 58 school students on the train. Instead, SFO had to rent a separate bus for the autumn trip of the year, which also led to a more expensive journey. The information manager of the NSB responds in the Address Paper that they do not want larger groups on the train than they have capacity for and that they do not have wagons and equipment not in use. What can the Council of State do to enable the NSB to respond more fully to such needs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1116	The NSB has a system where schools, school leisure arrangements and kindergartens can use available capacity on the train at a very favourable price. It's positive. It teaches our young people to travel collectively. This offer has a limit of 40 people. The NSB has stated that Okstad's school-time arrangements wanted to include a group of 58 people, 18 people more than the limits of the scheme. The school free time system at Okstad school offered to pay the 18 persons outside the group scheme of the NSB, but for the purpose of train capacity the NSB chose not to meet the request. I think that NSB should be more flexible in handling this request, and I want to deal with things with NSB in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1125	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I suppose I can also save the Council of State a bit on a busy day. I'm very pleased that the Council of State will take this up with the NSB. I have to say I reacted very quickly when I saw this in the paper, and came to remember my own schooling in the 1950s when the whole school went on a school trip by train. Then I never heard anything about that there was any problem. So today you have to limit yourself if you're going to travel. You wanted to buy a group ticket here, and that's where the error occurred. If you had bought a single ticket, you would have put an NSB in a bracket. The question is how to make sure that you do not get into such a trick that you have to say no to a group of school students. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1134	I found it a positive move that the representative Lånk reacts to this kind of lookup. I understand that the school has reacted to this. Of course, when we have a public transport offer, there should not be restrictions on the number of people so that a school class cannot get to and from. So I want to take this up, and I also want to discuss with the NSB how we can make sure that this doesn't happen in the past. It gives a very bad impression. I feel for the kids who didn't get to travel, so I am deeply sorry on behalf of the NSB. What we can do with it is take it up and try to make sure that nothing like it happens in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1141	I thank you again for the answer. I am sure that the Minister of Transport will do his utmost to ensure that this will not repeat itself. There's another point here. The fact that an information manager in the NSB has to go out in the paper and explain such a situation, is pretty embarrassing for him and for the NSB as well, so I hope we avoid this for the future. I have great faith that the Council of State will do its utmost to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1152	‘A carrier operating from Gardermoen recently refused to provide a disabled person with a pre-booked journey. Disabled users of the Fly train feel that they are asked to wait until later departures because there is no time to pull out the disability promotion on the train. What forms of reaction are available to carriers who do not facilitate the use of their services by disabled persons, and what will the Council of State do to promote the development of a universally designed transport service?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1159	I thank you for putting the search light on an important question. It is very bad that passengers with reduced mobility or disability still experience being refused to travel by public transport. I am busy strengthening the formal rights of passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility, but the example of the Sundsbø representative shows that transport companies have a long way to go in the practice of current legislation and the usual practice of customer care. The Ministry of Transport follows closely the practice of accessibility in transport, and I point out that political leadership has already commented on the first mentioned matter in the media in a very clear way. For aviation, the rights to this passenger group have to a large extent been provided by a voluntary declaration designed in cooperation between the European Commission and the ECAC, the European Civil Aviation Conference, in 2001, to which some large and willing carriers have joined. The Ministry of Transport has included these requirements as a requirement in the standard contract for the supply routes. In order to improve this, I am working on designing a new regulation that prohibits discrimination against travellers by referring to reduced mobility or disability. The corresponding legislation has also been developed in the EU. The rule is that you listen to it these days. The new legislation will be a clear improvement in today's system, including: by the fact that the responsibility will lie with the airport operator in front of the individual carrier. Furthermore, it will be possible for the Air Species Authority to verify whether the air carriers and airports comply with the Regulation and to sanction any infringements. Finally, the passenger himself will be able to file a complaint with the new air complaint subject, which is under establishment. When it comes to ensuring the rights of passengers with reduced mobility or disability, including the use of other public transport, I look at the work on a new anti-discrimination law that the Government intends to present to the Parliament of Spring. In the case of the Fly train, I will address the question of the missing use of ramps to take wheelchair users on board in a private letter to the Fly train.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1176	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and especially for the fact that it was so much concrete in terms of measures to do something to ensure disabled universally designed transport systems. Both the regulatory work and the anti-discrimination law were mentioned here, and it was said that the airline could also expect a letter on the issue in question. Unfortunately, the two examples I mentioned are not the only ones I can point out. When you first raise such a question, there are many people who apply. Here I stand with a clipping from NRK Buskerud, where a lady says that NSB makes her disability. She points out that it is absolutely impossible for a wheelchair user to get to the Drammen station. Ticket lockers, dorms, outdoor areas – nothing is organized so that it is possible to get there. "NSB makes me the handicap," she says. I'm afraid we're in a situation where this is the case, and my follow-up question is related to what kind of reaction forms we need in order for us to be able to stop this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1185	When it comes to the last issue of station design, there is a question that lies directly with the state, where we are now working according to different guidelines than before, and that it should be fully accessible to all. Unfortunately, we still have a long way to go before this is done — even when it concerns the design of the station area at existing stations. The sanctions available here per year. today, is not very large. There is not a proper sanctioning system for this type of behavior, nor should it be necessary. It should be both normal service and good manners to ensure that all passengers come with us, regardless of whether you have a disability or are physically handicapped. So what I want to do until we get the new code in place is keep a bigger focus on this. I want to take it up again with the transport companies that are under my department, and make sure that it is implemented again in their daily routines, that one should take out ramps, that one should ensure that people come on board, and that people should get needed help. In the short term, this is my answer. So if it doesn't work, we're going to think about whether you have to go in with your own sanctions. I sincerely hope that it will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1192	I fully agree that we have to hope that people's manner and service position are what should ensure our improvement in the area. Then I also look forward to the introduction of an anti-discrimination law that will formalise both the obligations of carriers in line with those of the community, and the responses that society will have to have to follow up the issues of individual users. But that's something we'll probably be allowed to work together on in the future before it's presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1199	I fully agree with the assessments of the representative Sundsbø here, and I look forward to constructive cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1208	‘In the autumn election campaign, it was announced that several of the local traffic stations will pass, a positive news for the districts. User availability and a comprehensive offer are important for the population. The traffic station in Flekkefjord has ten employees. They get to keep their offers, but these are significantly reduced in terms of. hall inspection and uphill operation of motorcycles and tractors, which must now be carried out in Kristiansand. Could the Council of State provide the traffic station with a more complete content with the possibility of an ambulatory sensor or those certificates on site?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1215	The services provided by the State Road Service are important to many, including in the districts. In working on a holistic service provision plan at the traffic stations, I have therefore stressed that users will receive a good and available supply throughout the country. There are therefore now far more facilities available than those followed by the closure plan under the previous government. The availability of the individual traffic station must be adapted to local circumstances in order to provide flexible and good solutions. This is best done by the Swedish Road Administration in consultation with local users and municipalities. In general, the state road system will give priority to a reduction in waiting time for driving tests and approval of running gear in halls. The State Road Administration reports that today at Flekkefjord traffic station there are about four annual works divided into five added ones. These are mainly related to groundhandling, driving test for passenger cars and work on road safety. In addition to the control of heavy goods vehicles, Flekkefjord traffic station had a fully-fledged service provision before the 2004 efficiencies plan was launched. Technical checks for light goods vehicles were mainly closed in 2005. Yet, for a period of time, there have been such controls one day a week. The demand for this service has been small, while it is necessary to maintain the supply. Thus, the state road authority does not propose to carry out technical checks at the traffic station in Flekkefjord. In line with the agreement of a meeting between Vegvesenet and the municipality in August of this year, where I myself was present, the State Road Administration will also offer practical pilot test for the tractor at Flekkefjord traffic station. Furthermore, Statens vägvesen will facilitate the practical driving test for A1 motorcycle from the coming season by using sensors from Kristiansand traffic station.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1228	I thank the Council of State for the answer. These were positive signals, and I'd like to follow up on the last thing you mentioned. Traffic stations have, as mentioned above, been given a gradual reduction in their offer and it provides less user availability. Just in the List and Flekkefjord regions, this has led to a motorbike ride-up in Kristiansand or Egersund, which means a distance of between 15 and 20 miles, because you do not have a sensor. This is a socio-economic and environmentally poor solution, I think. You mentioned that there could be the possibility of an ambulatory sensor. Will he be able to come to Flekkefjord a few days per. month and make the necessary uphill journey? This would be a constructive and flexible solution for very many traffic stations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1237	The President will take note of the fact that the speech is to be corrected via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1240	As I have understood, the State Road Service, which is responsible for the organisation of details – I am asking for respect for the fact that the Council of State cannot go into the details of each traffic station – is the point that there should be a sensor coming from Kristiansand traffic station to Flekkefjord to carry out the run-up there. I mean, it's a rational way to do it. It is easier to move a sensor to Flekkefjord to pick up and take a straight run in one day than to move the other way, which will mean much more transport. We are all concerned about reducing both the amount of transport and the transport burden for the individual. This is also about the time and time resources of the runner. That's how I've perceived the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1245	I take the answer from the Council of State to the districts. It's positive. The existence of local traffic stations is an important signal to the population. But a building also has to have a content. A reduced offer, usually with an opening time of three days per. week, has created uncertainty for the future several places. What are the plans and visions for future traffic stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1250	On behalf of the Government and the Ministry of Transport, I presented a holistic plan for the traffic stations for a time. There we have done a good deal of the proposals for closure from the previous government. We are talking about the closure process in autumn 2005. We have spent time afterwards outlining the need for services around different parts of the country. There is no doubt that at the time the previous plan was presented, one overestimated the changes in people's patterns of action, among others. Internet usage. But one has not come so far that one does not yet need traffic stations. There is no doubt that our pattern of action is constantly changing. In this way, we must be open so that the need for traffic stations can also change in the future. It is the State Road Service that must follow this and make proposals for possible changes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1255	Then we came to Question 13, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport. The observer will note that Arne Sortevik is asking two questions in this issue, which is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. But because of relationships that the representative himself does not have, the questions have been postponed twice before. That is why the President is exempt from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1264	Thanks for the clarification. Unfortunately, the problem has probably remained in the waiting time we have had to have. ‘The current work on height improvement in the Haukeli tunnel and the Røldal tunnel poses major problems for the transport industry and for industry. Periodic closures, poor reversion solutions and insufficient information provide considerable delays, reduced safety and consequences. driving and rest periods. This project still appears to be a scandalous project. Will the Council of State immediately ensure that temporary solutions are improved and progress made in cooperation with stakeholders?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1273	First of all, I regret that the representative Sortevik has had to put his questions to the vote. For various reasons, government councils have not been able to meet up to the previous question hours. I refer to previous answers to questions about the resolution of the Haukeli tunnels, the latest answer to question No. 1311 and No 1311 1336. Saka is also mentioned on page 75 in St. pp. No 1 for 2007-2008 in the Ministry of Transport. The repairs are carried out in full on the E134 over Haukelifjell. Unfortunately, it is not possible to carry out this work without having consequences for traffic management. Because of the poor default and sometimes very high conversion paths, problems get bigger when the weather conditions are difficult. On the basis of the fact that the road users perceive the signs as unclear and misleading in connection with the tunnel work, the Ministry of Transport asked the Directorate of Transport to change the sign so that it is now easier to understand and not to suggest traffic rejection. I have now been informed that the State Road Service will also review its information procedures to ensure that the best information on the situation is available at any time. This includes, inter alia: road traffic control centres should be able to provide accurate information on actual and anticipated conditions at any time. I have also been assured that the Swedish Road Administration is working to minimise the negative consequences of the repair work. As a result of snow blowing in ours, work was delayed by about two weeks. six weeks. In order to maintain as much as possible the original plan to take the necessary action in the current year, a maintenance contract has been concluded with the performing contractor. Remaining work is in the final phase and includes in the most important electrical work. Additional finishing in the final phase will be unlikely and will have little effect. Work is scheduled to be completed around 15 December of this year. The state road system will open for column running through the Haukeli and Røldal tunnels when winter is set in, and will not allow column running over Animals at snow cover. The decision is taken to ensure the safety of road users. I know that the State Road Administration Region West has invited a meeting in Röldal today to inform you about the status and progress of the upgrading work and the traffic management in these tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1288	Thanks for the answer. I note with satisfaction that the State Road Service subsequently takes some action that can improve a difficult situation for those who use the Haukeli connection. What is regrettable is that cleaning up and improving grips come after long periods of frustration and many complaints from users. Therefore, a natural follow-up question to the Council of State is that she is satisfied with the state road authority’s management of this project — a project that goes back to landfill treatment in the previous period, among others. with consultation in Stortinget, a project in which we have had a one-year postponement because the State Road Administration put more work into the assignment than there was a basis for decision-making, and where poor and poor information has led to many complaints. Are the Councils satisfied with the handling?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1297	The Council of State is primarily satisfied that in a month’s time – and so on – we will have completed the work on these tunnels. I am glad that we must not, as it looked for a while, postpone parts of this to the next year and put on the drivers any further problem. Then there have been many ‘snuars’ on this project, and there may be different reasons for it. I don't want to put all the blame on the State Road Administration because it's time to get the project completed. I mean, the state road system stands for quality in the work they do, also in the repair of the Haukeli tunnels. I regret that the information work was not good enough, and that we had to follow it up from our hand. I hope after the rounds – to say it this way – that we had this summer, that they have always felt that they have been better equipped, and not least that one has avoided a rejection effect, of which the local residents along the road – not least the travel life – were busy. So in general, I want to sum up the project so that it has had a long way with a few laps along the way that we would like to see done, but when we are there, I am very happy that the project is completed on 15 December this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1304	Thank you again for your answer. I also share the feeling of satisfaction that we are now approaching the end of this. I find that the Council of State meets me in this way that there has actually not been a simple way in the Road Administration's handling of this road project. It may be appropriate to have a close and good dialogue with users in advance on how this is to be done and implemented in a way that creates the least possible problems for those who are using the road. Unfortunately, this example and this project indicate that there is not enough focus on having such a dialogue in advance, but are coming to an end, after imposing major problems on road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1311	I believe that the state's road authorities have had the very best intention of having a good cooperation with both the road users and the road users. There may be a lot to say about how that communication has gone on, and as I said, I don't want to blame all the government's travels because it may not have been optimal, but I'm at least glad that there's a meeting in Röldal today, where one now informs about the further progress, the conversion that will result from the fact that it is now going against winter. I hope that meeting will be perceived as it is, i.e. a good attempt to provide good information in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1320	There's a lot about Haukeli, and my question is in many ways a supplement to the previous one. ‘E134 is the road artery between the East and the South West. There is an upgrade in both the Haukeli tunnel and the Röldal tunnel. Because of snow the bypass is now closed. Hourly waiting times in both tunnels are poorly notified and cause unsustainable delays, particularly affecting commercial traffic. What does the Council of State do to ensure adequate and up-to-date information and warnings for road users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1329	I refer to my answer to question 13 from the big-time representative Arne Sortevik. The answer to the representative Vallersnes' question is the same as the answer to question 13, so I don't want to repeat it. It is not possible to carry out the remedial action without having consequences for traffic management. The bypasses have a bad default and are sometimes very high, which leads to bigger problems under difficult weather and conditions. As I also answered previous information questions, road traffic control centres should always be able to provide accurate information on actual and expected conditions. In addition, the state road authorities have taken initiatives for the information meeting in Röldal today, as I mentioned in the reply to the representative of the city of Arne Sortevik. Among those invited here are managers, transport companies, businesses and many interest groups. I hope there will be a positive and constructive meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1338	There are two problems here. The first is the extended installation period. I'm not going to go into it. The second is the resolution of problems that arise in the meantime. It was Wednesday, October 17, at 5 p.m. 23 that the bypass over the Animal Sclerk was closed due to a slight snowfall. There have been quite a number of messages to us about the situation that occurred. But those who were on the road were not informed – either through signs or information, nor through the Roadmap. There were then three hours of intermittent driving, which is both a European road and a national transport corridor, and with wagon trains in line. This is the daily logistical transport year of an entire region. What can the Council of State elaborate on the information obligation of the Road Traffic Reporting Centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1351	Of course, the Roadmap Centre shall be up-to-date with regard to changes that are essential to travellers and shall be able to provide information on them. I'm sorry what happened, that they didn't get the information they should have before the bypass was closed. Now snowfall is coming fast. The fact that a person was not informed in advance is one aspect of it, but that one did not get that information through the Road Mapping Centre and the traffic controllers is not good enough. I think that the State Road Service has learned from the process that has been here, because there has been a slightly twisted process of repairing the Haukeli tunnels. The most important lessons of this and other projects must be that a work is put in early information, and good information, directed at the groups directly affected by the work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1356	I thank you for the answers. I just want to give you an additional consideration. Whether there are general guidelines or general instructions to which the road traffic centres relate and how they are then practised and, if they do not exist, whether they will be developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1361	There is a code for road traffic control centres. I don't have it concretely leading me here, so I can't reproduce it in detail, but there's such a code, and it's a relationship. Then, of course, you have to consider whether it's good enough, whether it captures all the events that it's referred to here, where a bypass was linked. Because it is a kind of event that, naturally – I think – should be the responsibility of the Road Administration Centre to communicate to the road users. But I'd like to go inside and look at the legislation that's leading, if there's any improvement that should be made there in order to capture this type of event.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1375	This question falls away, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1382	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In line with a broad political majority both at municipal and county level in Eastfold, the Stortinget has repeatedly agreed that the first project now under way on Eastfold is to be the railway solution in the tunnel through Moss. Locally, very large amounts of money are invested in confidence that the authorities would follow their own promises. The 2008 State budget does not propose any funding for further work. Does the Council of State consider it acceptable to treat an entire urban community/region in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1391	In the submission to the national transport plan of the previous government, there were no proposals for the launch of Haug-Onsøy or any other major investment measures on the Eastfold Railway south of Ski. After the large majority, against the voices of the then ruling parties, decided a sharp increase in the frames of both road and rail, there was room to take Haug-Onsøy into the plans. Following the wishes of the Østfold County Council, the Stortinget decided in the context of the 2006 state budget management that Sandbukta-Moss-Såstad should be given priority over Haug-Onsøy, although the project would cost twice as much as Haug-Onsøy, more specifically approximately 1.6 billion in 2006. The railway station together with the municipality of Moss has worked on a new main plan for the railway tunnel through Moss, as the planned station position had to be moved due to the fact that the safety requirement for railway operations has now become more stringent requirements for the location of stations on a curve. As soon as I am aware, this work is about to be completed, and detailed plans for the project have to be developed. The detailed planning process requires approximately 30 million. kr, and no funds are allocated to this in the 2008 government budget. The reason is that, within the 2008 railway network, I have chosen to prioritise the continuation of the operation and maintenance of the network to which the Government provided for in the 2007 budget, and also to have the most rational progress of the large railway projects that have been launched. I have a lot of understanding that people and businesses in Moss want to go on with this project. That we have now received a government that has increased the annual investments in the railway by more than 50 pst. Compared to the previous government, which prioritizes resources so that they can be used as rationally as possible, so that the projects that are under way can be started earlier. I hope this can be a source of inspiration for the representative of Engese's work on the Eastfold Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1404	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which unfortunately is not so much to thank for, because I have to say that the disappointment that both I and a combined Eastfold bench felt when we saw that not even these 30 million planning funds. The kr was in place, was quite formidable. I have registered after that the state budget was presented, that the Danish government representative Steinar Gullvåg from Vestfold has stated that he is tired of defending broken election promises. Now there are probably a lot of us on the Eastfold bench who are quite tired, even though we haven't gone as far as to use such strong force expressions. But when will the Council of State come to the Grand Council with proposals on these planning methods, which, after all, are relatively modest amounts in the big context? This project is in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1411	As I said in my previous answer, I have prioritised having a rational implementation of already started projects. It would be very easy to just add some planning tools to different projects around, but that means that you also have to have a start-up plan. The reason why no planning funds have been added to the 2008 budget is that one does not see that the launch of this project is up to date in 2008. When we get that far, the planning means of course have to be set at their disposal. And as I said in my main answer: I have a lot of understanding that both in Eastfold and Westfold is impatient to see the plans that lead the iron track in these states, but we have a big project in the west corridor now that needs to be completed, and that I have chosen to put full pressure on, and that means a lot to the winding-up of a population area here in the intercity triangle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1418	I think it's important that the Council of State takes on board that we now have a quite unique situation, where the popularity of travelling by train is strongly increasing. On the Eastfold course, for example, I think the last year was 15-16 pst. traffic growth, passenger growth. It's a situation that you have to take care of, because we all, not least from an environmental policy perspective, want more people to travel by train and fewer journeys by car. And then I have to say it is sad to record that the Council of State is not more offensive in this field. I travel a lot by train myself, and I record that on some of the departures in the rush traffic does not even have all the passengers sitting. This is not the case when you are going to make a train trip of perhaps up to one hour. So my last question is, will the Council of State address this issue and make sure that all the passengers that are now flowing to the NSB actually get their seats?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1425	On behalf of the Government, I will not accept criticism of this government's railway bill. We have increased the investment budget by 50 pst. We have increased the operational and maintenance budget, which is particularly important for maintaining good regularity on the railways. We have concluded agreements with the NSB, which will increase capacity by up to 15 pst. in rushtida. We are having a little trouble with it in 2008 because of the locomotive situation, but I hope that one will get the increase that is in our agreements. We have a completely different offensive railway policy from what the governments of the past – to speak in plural terms – have had. It's high time -- I'm not saying it's enough. For this reason, we are also working towards a national transport plan to obtain additional speed at the Norwegian railway operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1434	I hope the Minister for Transport still has a little voice again – there have been many questions today! I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘E18 between Tvedestrand and Arendal constitutes a very dangerous route. The need for a new 4-field motorway on this route is now completely precarious and should start as soon as possible. Too many people die every year without meaning in traffic in South Africa because of it. lousy road standard in the part of the country. The number of traffic fatalities in the South is both unnecessary, tragic and scandalous. Can the Council of State respond when it is appropriate to initiate the deployment of E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand in order to reduce traffic death?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1443	I am pleased with the question from the representative Andersen. We are now entering a time of changing and often difficult conditions. The question gives us the opportunity to remind each other about the responsibility we have as drivers when we go out on the road. Not least, it is important when we go into the Christmas season. In the case of E18 in East-Agder, the Stortinget has, in line with the leadership of the East-Agder Pack and local authorities, its view of the E18 priority of remedying the E18 between the Telemark border and the Riser and between Grimstad and Kristiansand. E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand is part of a concept currency arrangement for the Langangen-Grimstad section that the State Road Administration has now begun. External quality assurance will then be carried out, so-called KS1. Later, there is consistency and local authority planning. Finally, control plans shall be drawn up for the chosen line. One will also consider different funding solutions. It is difficult to assess the timing of planning in advance. It will include: Depending on the time they spend in the municipalities and the county they're in, they need their level clarifications, but a realistic estimate will be about five years. A major extension of the route was not prioritised in the national transport plan for the period 2006–2015 when it was adopted in 2004. As I answer questions from the representative on the same case on 7 March 2007, the route could be assessed in connection with the national transport plan for the period 2010-2019. Both in the 2009 budget and in the 2010–2019 national transport plan, targeted road safety measures will be assessed pending major development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1452	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to make it very clear that the start of the construction of the E18 on the Arendal–Tvedestrand road section at the moment may be the biggest political battle cause we have in the East-Agder counties. It is therefore a high priority both locally and regionally to get the Arendal–Tvedestrand development into the National Transport Plan 2010–2013, but here, as I see, we have some problems. I want to mention that in fact, as far as I've been able to figure out, there are only two remaining sections of the whole E18 Oslo-Cristian sand, these 320 kilometers, where someone doesn't somehow have plans clear or funding, or is under construction. It is the distance of Bamble and the route Arendal-Tvedestrand that remains as the last remaining sections. I would therefore ask the Council of State to take an extra look at the special problem of Arendal–Tvedestrand, because it would be an advantage to have a more comprehensive development, so that not for many, many years will lie there as some critical bottlenecks when the rest is extended.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1461	Getting a uniform standard on the road network on longer distances is one of the objectives we have in building roads in the country. It is not least about road safety that drivers avoid running on alternate standard. I've done some good for the plan situation for this distance. And as I said in March, over a five-year period, one can have a way that is ready for development, that is, once around 2012–2013. There is an i-best-case estimation, where the entire planning process is going well, where one is not prevented by local conflicts about trasecholics, etc., and where there is a satisfactory funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1468	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is concerned with road safety, especially on this road section. I would also like to remind you that the number of road fatalities in East-Agder has doubled to date this year. In West Agder, eight out of nine traffic fatalities were killed in meeting accidents. We know that with good roads with separate middle parts you eliminate almost 100 pst. accidents at meetings. Does the Council of State not see that it is tragic, and even in my view very inhumane, that many road users who are very likely to face death in traffic will be totally unnecessary in the years to come – many due to the old-fashioned and poor road sections in the South and, of course, elsewhere in the country? I therefore urge the Council of State to signal that she will save lives on the roads of death in South Africa and ensure that we get a redundancy of work on the dangerous road section Arendal-Tvedestrand as soon as possible. I hope the Council of State follows it up and does what stands in her power to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1475	The councils are deeply sorry for all the clocks, whether it's a meeting breaker, a rascal or someone else, which leads to the loss of life, and every single life that's lost is, of course, too much. The paradox in the situation now is that while one, just a few years ago, didn't have mid-points, the death toll went down, but in the last few years, when we broke through all of the previous government and this one started to build up four-fields and get speed on the construction of middle parts, we unfortunately see a negative development. I'm not going to compile this, but there's an improper paradox. So when we are going to do road safety work, it's also about appealing to the individual road user on the road. We have to take the responsibility that we have to be unhindered, not taking drugs, and that we use all the other insurance that will enable us to reduce the death toll on our roads, pending that we can secure our entire road network in a better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1480	We're now going to questions 22 and 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1488	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1491	I will ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The uncertainty surrounding the operation of the Emergency Centre in connection with the Åknes/Tafjord project in the area of Storfjorden and Geiranger lives on, to the great dismay of both residents and travellers. This despite the fact that the Government has had two years to propose a safe and sensible operational solution. What is the reason why the Government continues to train the matter, and when, in concrete terms, will the Council of State make its contribution to funding?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1498	First, I want to make it clear that it is not right for the government to have had two years to come up with a solution on the safe and reasonable operation of a centre attached to the Åknes/Tafjord project. The project launched on 30 August 2006 an application for admissibility for the operation of an emergency centre, with a new letter containing a new budget from the project on 16 March 2007. After this, there have been contacts with the project in several phases to assess the different elements of the application. This is a very common way of working and is connected to the Government's budgetary process. What has been unusual in this matter is that the center, which is now established in Stranda, is the first of its kind in Norway. It has therefore been absolutely necessary to use the time we have used. In the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for 2008, the Government announced that it would help to ensure the continuous monitoring of skewed areas in Storfjorden – Åknes, Tafjord – and other places where it is needed. The government further warned that it would be working on how this would be organized, and that one would come back to the matter in an appropriate way. This was signaled to the current actors already in August 2007. I am therefore pleased that the representative Røbekk Nørve is asking this question, because it gives me and the Government the opportunity to do something for the Stortinget that the Government has recently decided to make a State contribution of 10 million. NOK 2008 for operation of a monitoring centre. The Minister of Agriculture and Food has made this known in the press release on 30 October. Such an operating commitment is a necessary follow-up to investigations and investments that have been deposited in the Åknes/Tafjord project over a four-year period and for which the State has contributed well over 64 million. kr. The action now being taken by the Government is important for the security and security of the population. The aim is to provide an effective warning to the population of movement and changes in these areas that may increase the risk of racism, and which will then serve as a basis for the authorities’ assessments of the need for evacuation. The monitoring centre will be an intermunicipal company, where the municipalities concerned will also participate in the financing of operations. This is a natural consequence of local authorities having a responsibility for preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1509	I will first be allowed to show that I still believe that this is a matter of at least two years, because on the day we started to grant funds for the protection in the mountain side, we should also know that it was going to operate here. From my point of view, it's quite natural. The reason for my concern and the question here today is the Minister of Agriculture's answer to my question no later than June of this year, where he did not say anything about the need for quality in safety, but he stressed the following: "I am concerned that schemes to be set up are cost-effective and have therefore asked that the project also describe possible alternative solutions." Me and the people in the area around Storfjorden and Geiranger are now looking a little more optimistic about the situation after the government finally came with 10 of the 16 million. kr as requested. - The President beats?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1518	Yeah, time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1521	There was probably no follow-up question in what Røbekk Nørve now said, more a clarification of the stand. What is important now from the Government's side is that we have a good dialogue with local authorities, that one gets up that emergency centre as quickly as possible, and that we get a good form of operation. The government is busy having a system that makes people in this area feel safe, that they can bow and operate in the daytime there without having to think about the risk of a possible race. I think only those who have lived with racial danger, understand what this means for the quality of life. So the government is busy that we're going to get this going and up as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1526	My follow-up question here was really about the Government now, and the Council of State on behalf of the Government, can establish that the economy for the operation of the Emergency Centre is secured with state support in the future as well, and that we are not going to argue about whether this should have solutions other than the preparedness planned. I thank the other government council for the answer so far and hope that I get an answer to the last question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1533	Now it's the way the government comes with one budget at a time, so I have to tell the representative that she has to wait for the coming budget to get answers to what she's asking for now. But the fact that one of the government's sides has gone in by 10 million. kr, is a visible test that we are concerned about the problem, that we should cooperate well with municipal and local authorities both to ensure the start-up of the centre and to get good operation in place. This is not a one-year project. The government also understands that this must be a permanent solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1542	This question, from the representative Anders Anundsen to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1545	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The Ministry of Ownership of the Westfold Food Authority is required by the Ministry of Ownership to improve resource use. As a result, the Food Authority will close its business in Larvik and move it to Tønsberg. There is no evidence that this will contribute to a more efficient or reasonable production of services. In Larvik/Sandefjord, the large food producers are located in the county. Larvik port is a regional port with an increasing volume of goods. Why will the Council of State force through a combination that is pointless and quality-reducing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1554	I have no plans to force by merging any of the district offices in the Food Authority. I attach great importance to the fact that the Food Authority is and should be a decentralised establishment. An important feature of the structure of the Food Authority is that district offices have knowledge, proximity and direct contact with the activities under their supervision. It is the activity of the district offices that is at the heart of the work of the Food Authority’s oversight and guidance work. Food authorities have informed that they consider reducing the number of district offices in order to reduce the use of time for internal administration and to release resources for supervisory and guidance work. In this context, the Food Authority reports that there are proposals from the Regional Office for a merger of the two district offices in Vestfold, to which the representative Anundsen refers. This proposal is now under consideration at the head office of the Food Authority. The political framework for the organisation of the Food Authority at district level was laid in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 8 for 2002-2003. It has been assumed that the number of district offices will be in the 50–65 range. Furthermore, the creation of the Food Safety Authority resulted in an improvement in efficiency of 10 p.m., which means a reduction in staffing of about 10 p.m. in the organisation. In St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, it is clarified that the efficiency gain is to be realised during 2008 and that the Storting should be responsible for any organisational changes in the Food Authority. I am busy with the increase in the supervision and guidance work carried out at the district level. This would be positive both for the companies supervised by the Food Authority and for consumers. In order to free up resources for performing work, one grep may be to reduce the number of administrative units. As long as this happens within the framework of the organisation of the Food Authority, and in a way that does not significantly weaken the proximity of supervision and users, I want the Food Authority to have the freedom to do what they think is appropriate adaptations to the organisation at the district level. The Ministry has suggested that the Food Authority will continue sub-assemblies to the district office, so that the number of offices in the Food Authority, and thus the proximity to the enterprises, is passed on at about the same level as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1565	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think the answer's introduction was very good, because then the Council of State made it clear that no one should be coerced. Then I got a little more in doubt about what else the answer was, because it was referred to some larger, superior frameworks and given the opening to rationalize by shutting down the office anyway. Therefore, I would like to get the Council of State to respond specifically to the following: Does the Council of State wish to contribute to the decommissioning and relocation of the Food Authority in Larvik, or will the Council of State contribute to the maintenance of the proximity that is crucial to the provision of services in different parts of Westfold by maintaining the office of the Food Authority in Larvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1572	As stated in the main reply, the Food Authority itself has the freedom to make adjustments to its office network within the framework of given frameworks. The important thing, which was also clarified, is that this should be done in a way that does not weaken the closeness of supervision to the user, i.e. that a structure that does not provide a structure that makes the distances a good supervision and a good guide difficult. The guide piece is very important in the work of the Food Authority. Governments will be busy to ensure that the changes that are currently being discussed do not weaken the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1577	I would like to thank you once again for your answer, and I am tempted to interpret the answer as follows: the Larvik Food Authority's office should not be shut down, because that is the only way to maintain the proximity and quality of the service offered by the Council of State is necessary for the activities of the Food Authority. In this context, I would like to thank you for your clarification. We also have experience in moving other services from Larvik to Tønsberg, for example. the traffic station and control activities there, which have led to such a distance that the quality of the services offered to residents in the south of Westfold has been significantly reduced. That is why I am in many ways happy that the signals from the Council of State, as I interpret them in the last answer, are about to maintain the Food Authority in Larvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1584	Even if I am now tempted to go to the airport, I will stick to the Food Agency. What I said in response to the follow-up question was that the changes that a person now assesses in the head office of the Food Safety Authority must be carried out in a way that does not weaken the contact that the Food Safety Authority has with the local business community, both supervision and guidance. It's stuck. Of course, the Council of State will see to it that it is kept up to date. That being said, I would say that the Food Authority has freedom within these frameworks to make organisational changes. But there are very clear indications as to what the limits are with regard to the changes that can be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1591	We're going back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1598	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘More foreign nationals with girlfriends in Norway have not been granted a visa. The implementation of the legislation makes it almost impossible to visit Norway if you are from certain countries. This despite the fact that both wage cuts and financial guarantees are provided. In a letter from the UDI, it is said that the practice is to reject almost all applications from specific countries. Will the Council of State take initiatives towards UDI to change visa practices, become more flexible and respond more closely to the needs of young people to visit each other before marriage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1607	Most applicants for a tourist visa are granted the application. In 2006, 101 000 out of 110 400 applications were granted. In the last four years, there has been a steady increase in the number of visa applications, and the proportion of grants has increased from 89 pst. from 2005 to 91 pst. in 2006. The statistics for the 50 foreign stations that received most visa applications last year indicate that the most rejected foreign stations rejected around 50–55 pst. of the applications. For the cases decided by the UDI, the 2006 statistics also show that the majority was granted. Of the 3,826 visa applications UDI decided, 2,194 were granted. It is important to remember that Norway's participation in Schengen cooperation means that we really have little freedom of action in the field of visas. The Schengen Convention requires harmonisation of national visa practices and obliges participating countries to pursue a common visa policy. Girlfriend visits are a weighty welfare concern that may outweigh the lack of return assumptions. This is assessed individually and a specific justification must be provided if the application is rejected. We have sought to facilitate the liberalisation of visa practices for girls through regulatory adjustments. In the past, those on tourist visas could apply for family reunification after they had come to Norway. As a result, some girlfriends found it difficult to obtain a visa because it was considered to be a real possibility that they actually wanted to marry and then apply for a residence permit from Norway. In October 2006 — not a very long time ago — the department changed the rules so that those who come on a visit visa now have to go home before they can seek family reunification with their spouse. As indicated in the circular for the change, the Government considered that this could contribute to a certain liberalisation of visa practices for young lone persons without children. We will now ask the UDI to explain whether this change has had the supposed effect in the form of liberalisation of practices for those applying for visas for girlfriend visits.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1629	I thank you for your answer. Regardless of both Schengen and legislation, I have received many requests from people who have been refused, and they belong to the right group of young unmarried people without children. That's probably also the background to the fact that this in Stortinget has been proposed for a girlfriend's visa, which I think should be unnecessary, because I think we have a code that, with good practice, based on judgement and consideration for the individual, should be good enough. It should be unnecessary to have even more laws to meet ordinary people's request to get a girlfriend here. But the letter from the UDI gives a very specific reason that there is a general and negative attitude to this type of visa application. Does the Council of State think that is reasonable? Can the Council of States not use the authority it has to give a general directive to the UDI to change its practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1636	I hear what the questioner says, but there were 110 000 applications for a visa to Norway in 2006, of which over 100 000 were granted. Then it is a bit demanding afterwards to present it as that Norwegian visa policy is very strict. 91 pst. of all the applications were accepted. It is then impossible to describe it differently from the fact that the general visa practice in Norway is very liberal. It's more liberal now than it has been. It is also the case that visas should not be assessed solely on the basis of the general desire for a liberal practice. In addition, an individual assessment shall be provided and the individual assessment shall include, inter alia: take into account return assumptions. Individual assessments therefore lead to a refusal of some despite a liberal practice. We've wanted to soften it up and now we're going to ask for the effect of the rule changes in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1643	There's other ways that you can solve this problem. The current situation is that the authorities lack an overview of the situation of the visitors. We do not know whether they are going home or not after the visa period has expired, but what I know is that some Norwegian embassies follow up on their visa applicants and meet them when they return to the country. So they have an overview. If we delegate the power to decide on these visa applications to the Norwegian embassies, we can get a better follow-up than what we can do here in the country. Will the Council of State work on the basis of that angle, thereby also facilitating the pressure on the UDI in relation to the amount of proceedings and capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1650	I think this follow-up question must be based on a misunderstanding, because of the 110 000 visa applications it is the large, large majority granted by the foreign stations. In 2006, only 3,826 out of 110 000 cases were treated in the UDI. The rest was treated by the foreign stations. It is those who are local in the countries who sit and make these individual assessments. The track is that visa applications are processed by foreign stations. So there's only a few, a special group of them, treated by UDI. So it is true, as the representative Holmberg asks, that some embassies have introduced a demand that you should return to the embassy again. It's a line that we're concerned with being able to build on. It may be a starting point, but it is clear that it imposes considerable additional work on visa applications on the visa seeker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1661	«In Dagbladet 21 October and in Fredrikstad Blad 28 October this year, we can read about 2 cases where girls with anorexia do not receive the necessary health care even if there is a spare capacity at Capio Anorksi Centers. I have received many enquiries from despairing anorexics and relatives, as well as from a father who has previously lost a daughter because of inadequate treatment. What is the reason why Capio Anorexia Senter still waits after 6 months for a response to his application to be included in free hospital choice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1668	Capio Anorexia Senter applied for approval as a hospital on 24 May this year. All applications for hospital authorisation are first submitted to the Directorate-General for Social and Health and to the regional health business concerned. This also applies, of course, to this application. Health South-East RHF has issued its opinion in a letter dated 26 July and the evaluation by the Social and Health Directorate was available on 19 September this year. The ministry is now finishing its examination of the application, and the matter will be settled in a very short time. However, I would like to make it clear in this round that a hospital approval does not in itself lead to the institution being included in the free choice of hospitals. In addition, private hospitals must have free choice of hospitals with one or more regional health establishments. So if Capio Anorexia Centres are approved as hospitals, it will be up to the regional health companies if they will possibly agree on free hospital selection with Capio.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1675	I thank you so much for the answer and am also aware of the agreement with the health companies. Now Capio had an agreement until New Year, and it was probably expected that that agreement would be continued, as there is no alternative to Capio for this patient group that is satisfactory today. Now it was also given a signal this week from the Hospital Østfold that they would not be allowed to renew their agreement, and this makes the matter worse immediately. It is a weakness already that they are not included in free hospital choice without an agreement. What does the Council of State think about the situation of patients if it turns out that Capio does not get an agreement and the patients will then stand without an offer, or with the lack of offer that already exists today? Because there's no equivalent to Capio. This is a special treatment concept. There are many who are now sitting and being quite dismayed, and excited about what the Council of State thinks about Capio's anorexics being at risk of being abandoned, or just becoming an offer to those who have a good economy and pay the stay themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1684	First, I'm very concerned that people with different eating disorders will get help when they need it. Then it is that Health South-East now has established its own centre of expertise at Ullevål University Hospital. A similar centre is being built which is planned and under construction at the Hospital Buskerud HF. So, as I said, in a very short time, we're going to decide on the application if it's going to be a hospital or not, in the sense that we're thinking about here. With regard to the issue of the agreement, I am familiar with the fact that Health South-East has said that they will reconsider this, so there is no final position on this either. What I can therefore say today is that I have been following this matter very carefully and will, as I said, in a short time clarify my view of this application. The agreement is also quite clear that Health South-East is handling it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1691	I thank the Council of State for continuing to follow the case. She has also said that before, and I think the Council of State has a sincere desire for these patients to receive good treatment. I would almost wish the Council of State could take a trip to Fredrikstad and talk to some of the patients and see the special place. It is not the same thing to get to a psychiatric department where there are others with severe mental disorders, such as getting to a specially organised treatment facility like Capio, which has good competence. There they have broad competence, and they show better results than I know they exist in the health care community. It will be very important that all patients who want to get to Capio – who want to get to that treatment offer – have the opportunity to try it, in order to have a greater chance of getting well. The hospital can process another offer if they want it, or something similar. For the time being, there's nothing I know about that these patients at Capio want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1698	First, I take with me what Giltun here says about the Capio Centre itself, and what patients had to think about it. What I'm concerned about is that all patients who need it, including those with eating disorders, anorexia, get help when they need it. Then I repeat that it is about to be built up offers both at Ullevål and at Buskerud for this special group. I also see that there is a need to have a slightly different offer for this group. We'll see in a very short time what the answer to the application will be, and what the answer to the agreement will also be, as I know is being evaluated on an ongoing basis in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1709	‘The administration of the Health West has again made a proposal for the organisation of the neurosurgical offer in the region which is contrary to the decisions of Health Stavanger. Health West considers that the decision should be finally adopted by a business meeting. Will the Council of State ensure that a final decision is taken in this matter which is also endorsed by Health Stavanger?"
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1716	I am committed to ensuring that the population in the entire health region of the West is a professionally good treatment offer in neurosurgery. I think it is unfortunate for patients, employees and the population that there is uncertainty about the treatment provision, as has been the case in this case. At the request of the Health West, the Department of Social and Health Directorate asked for a professional review of the neurosurgical offer in the Health West. That report was, as you know, completed until the deadline of 20 September this year. On the same day, we forwarded that report to the Board of Health West, which is responsible for further treatment and follow-up. I am aware that the Executive Director of the Health West in his position with the Board of Directors has chosen not to make the professional recommendation from the Social and Health Directorate the basis for the organisation of the neurosurgical offer in the Health West. As the representative Höie is certainly familiar with, the Social and Health Directorate's recommendation was that the neurosurgical offer in the Health West should be gathered in one place. I understand that the Executive Director justifies his recommendation that the professional advice of the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health should not take account of all the concerns of the Board of Health West in its decision, including: the great attention that has been on this matter and that this is an offer that has been established in Health Stavanger for many years. I have noticed that the Executive Director in his proposal for a decision to the Management Board recommended that the matter be brought before the owner, i.e. me, for consideration in a business meeting. I shall do so, if the Governing Board takes decisions in line with this position in its meeting of the Governing Board. Before the board has taken its decision and the department has been dealt with, I cannot predict what the business meeting will conclude with in such a complicated case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1729	Today it has become known that there is likely to be an error in the Social and Health Directorate’s report. It's based on two U.S. studies. One of these studies is correctly reproduced and makes it clear that the University Hospital in Stavanger belongs to the half of the hospital that has a number of operations that cause low mortality compared to the size, i.e. the upper half. The second study had a different conclusion. However, now it turns out that the second study in the report actually has a comma error. When this is corrected, the University Hospital in Stavanger belongs to the upper half also in relation to that part of the report. This means that both studies in the report conclude that the number of operations at the University Hospital in Stavanger is professionally sound. Will the Minister of Health ensure that this error is corrected, before she possibly takes a final position on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1738	What the representative Höie is now raising is completely unknown to me, but I am going to look into it more closely. Before I have done so, and before we have seen the board decision tomorrow, I have no further comments. But I'm going to seasaw, if they insist that I have the case, and decide, go through all the sides of it carefully. As the representative Höie knows, I have been visiting Health Stavanger and talking to both users and employees and with those in the management, both at the hospital, on the board board and at the regional level. So I feel that I have a fairly broad basis to be able to make a final decision in the matter, if that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1745	I am pleased that the Minister of Health now confirms that she will take a final position on the matter, and is the one who makes the final decision through a business meeting. There has been an overall claim from the Stavanger region for a very long time, for this is a matter of such importance that it belongs in a business meeting. Will the Council of State then stand on the point she has had earlier that the University Hospital in Stavanger should have a good neurosurgical offer? Will this offer mean that there will be planned operations to ensure that one has the necessary competence to deal with the acute cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1752	It was a good attempt to get me to say something about the content of the case. I'm not going to do that today. That is simply because now Health West must take its decision. I just repeat: if they decide that they want this to be dealt with at a business meeting, it is supposed to be done, just so it is quite clear. What I'm concerned about is that we must have good professional offers for the entire population, seafaringly also in the Health West and below for those who live in Stavanger. Now the process gets to go its own way. It's not far away. Then we're going to take a decision on this in turn and in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1763	‘The Ministry of Health and Welfare have been made aware by letter of the greatly increased pension costs of private hospitals in 2007 and 2008. Pension costs are rising both for private and public hospitals, but the practical consequences of this may be much more serious for private hospitals. Will the Council of State ensure that this problem is resolved in the context of the ministerial balancing proposal for 2007?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1770	I assume that the letter to which the representative Syversen refers is a letter from the General Organisation of Commerce and Services dated 2 November this year. I ask for an understanding that I have not had the opportunity to process that letter in a short time, because here it is not about small things or small money. I have not yet received a compiled summary of the effects of the changed economic parameters on the calculation of pension costs for health enterprises. The private non-profit institutions are known as maritime legal and economic activities. Regional health enterprises also enter into agreements with private non-profit institutions. It is necessary, through such agreements, to ensure framework conditions for non-profit institutions which enable them to provide the health services agreed upon. Arrangements and instruments have been established which take into account the situation of private non-profit institutions. In the autumn of 2003, when pension contributions increased significantly, and in 2007, when transfers to health enterprises increased by DKK 1 billion as a result of increased pension costs. As notified in St. Prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, with which the representative Syversen is certainly working in these days, the Government will come back to dealing with any major deviations — and that is what we are talking about here — that have to occur as a result of fluctuations in pension costs, when the case is sufficiently investigated. We're not quite there right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1781	I am at least pleased that the Council of State agrees that we are talking here about major anomalies. The problem is that the deviations are coming on relatively quickly for the hospitals that apply in 2007, and here we do not have many weeks left of the year we are now in. Of course, the consequences of the increased pension costs now being incurred will be either a deficit or some sort of compensation for it, or — but it is a little late — a reduction in activity, so that it can be adapted to new economic conditions. I understand that the Council of State cannot handle the matter as quickly as possible. At the same time, I would like to encourage the Council of State to take a close look at this, so that, through healthcare companies, a system can be found that makes it the seventh and last time not the patients who get harmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1788	I can confirm that we in the department and in the government are going to look closely at this. As the representative is familiar with, it has recently become clear what size we are talking about, but I have not yet received the total production and overview of what this means in total for all hospitals whether it is public or private. I'm asking for an understanding that I can't say anything more now, but it's clear that we're looking at that case, and that we're working on it. Then we might have to get back to Stortinget when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1793	Just to make it clear: does it also mean that the Council of State will assess this matter in relation to the balancing proposition for the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1798	I can't answer that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1803	Questions 22 and 23 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1810	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘There is currently no educational provision in the watchmaking profession in Norway. What action will the Council of State take to ensure the future of the watchmaking industry in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1819	The watchmaking profession is based on the main model of vocational training, with two years in school and two years as an apprentice in the company, and it is the individual county that has been provided within the framework of further training. When it comes to watchmaking and other subjects with low search, the Municipal Council has arranged for the provision of services to be established as a nationwide course offer through cooperation between county municipalities, which means that residents from all over the country can search for the offer and that county municipalities pay for each student who gets a place in a school with a nationwide offer. In the current school year, a nationwide offering for watch and instrument makers was not created because there were only four applicants. Nevertheless, it is open to companies, subject to approval by the county, to take in apprentices without completed further stage 2 for clock and instrument makers. I am busy finding solutions to the challenges of continuing training for local authorities and social partners. As of 1 November, a new rule of law was in force, where the social partners have more to say in connection with the provision of training in a county. It is important to ensure the competence of the watchmaking profession. Nevertheless, it is not desirable to train young people for a profession they cannot live from. The need for labour is a central element when continuing training is planned, and it is therefore important that both education policy and industrial policy are taken into account. I hope that the new rule of law will contribute to a good match between the number of pupils in secondary schools, the number of apprenticeships and the need for working life. From the autumn of 2008, the head of state education in Buskerud, with the continuation of funding from the municipalities from which the students come, has submitted proposals that Vg2 clock and instrument mates be re-created as a nationwide supply at Kongsberg’s secondary school. I can end by telling you that the main selection in the municipality of Buskerud yesterday adopted the proposal, and that, with the continuation of funding, such an offer will be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1830	Let me first congratulate the Council of State on his new job, as it is the first time we meet in the main hall in this way. So back to the answer that had a happy ending, because the Council of State's approach is unforgivable formal. The core here is that we're dealing with small crafts, which requires a few of them. Those who are engaged in these craft traditions know what is needed. This line in Buskerud has been absolutely crucial. So the answer that the Council of State now finally came along, that you choose to take this responsibility, I think it's good. State councils should take the baggage from this hall to the question of whether we can get to a landline, not because I think it will have a major infectious effect, but because we have some craftsmanship that are very vulnerable. Watchmaker training is one of these. There are many old bells in Norway, and we want to take care of them. There should be no mass offer. Not many people are going to get it. I'm just asking the state council to bring along the country line as an opportunity to reinforce the will he now told about from the position in the main committee in Buskerud, which I also think was a happy news in his reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1839	Let me first thank you for the congratulations and say that I look forward to working with the representative of Dørum. I'm very busy that we're going to hold on to the competences, among other things. but of course also on other important craftsmanships for years to come. It is a demanding task, as it involves a small labour market and often few seekers. But that is also the background to the introduction of a new rule of law that gives the social partners greater responsibility for it and greater opportunities for finding solutions. It is therefore also very gratifying that we are now being offered – with the recognition that funding will be put in place – at a further school. I have good hope that it will make a strong contribution to keeping to the important competence of the watchmaking profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1846	The Council of State and I share the view that there are some vulnerable subjects that are wise to take care of, perhaps not on the basis of so much demand in the labour market, but in order to protect the cultural heritage and the general tradition that I am sure we both share and that we are to defend. As I said, I am pleased with what has now happened in Buskerud. After you didn't have a line to offer this autumn, you try again next year. I think it's been shown in the past that it's been vulnerable. Finding other funding grants is clearly necessary and, in this context, national lines have been a way of managing it. Will the Council of State, through creative thinking, be able to find other answers, is nothing better than that. For my part, I am concerned about the solution, and that the offer that has been there should be able to continue. So I'm just sending with the state councils on his tour in Norway – which I think is a wise way to work on politically, by the way – thinking about solutions here as well. Maybe there are solutions in a different way than what I've been thinking of now. So far, my imagination has just stretched to the landline. I'm open to the state council finding solutions that I haven't been able to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1855	I share with the full representative Dørum's commitment to this question, and I'm glad that it now seems that we can put in place a solution for the watchmaking profession. Then I take with me that there are many subjects that are in a similar situation. For each of them, we have to be creative and think about solutions. They might be different. That's the background for us finding a solution in this case, by getting a new rule of law. In other cases, other solutions will be considered. I promise that I will work closely with Dørum and Stortinget to find similar solutions for other subjects as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1866	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘Unfortunately, there have been fatal accidents and several near-misses in the ‘leia of death’ of Mora. According to the Fisherman's newspaper, two near-accidents occurred on the sunny marsh coast only during a week at the end of October. Due to increased traffic of large ships near and along the coast, the situation of the Shark fleet has deteriorated sharply in recent years. What measures will the Council of State, in cooperation with other Councils, if appropriate, take to improve the safety of fishermen on the coast of Moravia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1875	First of all, I would like to say that there is a very important theme here addressed by the representative of Kongshaug. A good safety for fishermen and for everyone else who travels on the sea depends on the fact that many different elements work together. The basic prerequisite for the safety of all persons travelling by sea is compliance with maritime rules. The maritime rules are the rules of the sea. They determine how ships are to navigate and manoeuvre in such a way as to avoid collisions and it is the responsibility of each seafarer to comply with the rules. Other measures to strengthen maritime safety are based on and are additional to maritime rules. The introduction of the collision avoidance system AIS, the Automatic Identification System, is one important measure to increase safety at sea. It is a system which automatically provides information to other vessels in the waters of its own vessel’s identity, heading and speed. Today, fishing vessels of more than 45 metres in length are required to have AIS. In the context of the EU's work on the so-called third maritime safety package, it is proposed to strengthen the requirement for AIS on fishing vessels so that AIS becomes mandatory for fishing vessels with a length of 15 metres or more. Norway has supported this proposal, which provides a better overview of the other vessels in the waters, both fishing vessels and cargo and tankers operating along the coast. For particularly vulnerable areas, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has laid down specific sailing rules to prevent the risk of collisions and landslides. The waters outside the Worm Lange facility of Nyhamna on Møre are such an area. The sailing rules for this area provide, inter alia, for: require the tankers to report the VHF radio to other vessels in the waters to or from Nyhamna. Provision has been made for all vessels in the waters to listen to specified VHF channels so that they can receive notices of tanker movements. It is also required that the assistance vessels of tankers give a light signal warning to other vessels in the area and that tankers themselves give a signal indicating reduced manoeuvrability. Restrictions have also been laid down on the manner in which tankers can be used and the ships are to be used unloaded. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Fisheries and the Coastal Administration are also continuing the work of setting up a navigational manager outside the territorial waters. Such managers shall be approved by the United Nations Maritime Organisation (IMO) and established for the Vardø-Røst route from 1 July this year. The aim of the route is to prevent ground collisions, to move further along the coast and to prevent collisions. The Coastal Agency is now working on a proposal on sailing leaders also in the West. The location of such a manager must include, inter alia: take into account both the petroleum activity and the fishing activity in the West, including the Moravian coast. Specific sailing rules have already been established to ensure the safety of traffic to and from the Worm Lange plant at Nyhamna on Møre. We are also working on proposals for sailing managers outside the West, as mentioned. The importance of fisheries and the safety of fishermen is crucial in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1892	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I'm concerned about being something more specific about the waters off the coast of Mortar, which is a dangerous water. We might have to focus more on maritime safety outside just this part of the country. It is positive that new sailing managers have been developed for the waters of Nyhamna in connection with the Worm Lange facility. In Norway, we have five traffic centres. Unfortunately, there are no such traffic centres between Fedje and Vardø. Traffic centres have as their primary task the prevention of dangerous situations. The basis for a traffic centre for that part of the country – the Moravian coast – is well documented. My question will be concrete: will the Council of States put on the agenda, cancel out and facilitate the establishment of a traffic centre located to More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1901	When we work with maritime safety, I'm very concerned that we use the resources we have at our disposal, as targeted as possible. This will include, inter alia: means that current traffic centres are as well equipped as possible and that the fleet operating along the coast has AIS equipment installed on board. In this way, the traffic centres that exist today, following the traffic along the whole coast, can follow the movements of small and large boats, and the boats know each other. I believe that it is important to give priority to strengthening and further developing the measures we have already taken before launching large-scale, cost-intensive projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1908	I also thank you for this answer. I think we can agree that there is a very large distance between Fedje and Vardø, with dangerous sea routes. A traffic controller should have been evaluated here. I hope that can be done. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs was about moving ship traffic further out, getting the sailing routes further away from land. It is important, not least in areas where there is a high level of fishing activity and oil activity. In the event of an accident, it is also very important that ships carrying cargo are as far away from land as possible for emergency and evacuation reasons. Now the Council of State said that this is going to be worked on in the Western world. I would like the Council of State to be a little more specific, and ask the question: will the Council of State work to ensure that traffic passes through More and Romesdal and the dangerous sea route around the North-West becomes part of the future lease further west?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1919	Sailors shall be established outside the West, also outside the Dark Coast. Exactly where the sailing trails are located, it is too early to say anything about today. It is now working on the Coastal Works. When defining the routes between Vardø and Røst, there was a process of dialogue with the industries concerned — including a broad consultation process — to see where it was most appropriate to place the joints. We amended the original proposal by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs after the proposal had been widely consulted. It shall be chaired here, and we shall do so in close dialogue with the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1930	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The situation for Norwegian masturbation is serious. The prohibition of fishing for claw-catches, low withdrawals of the recommended quota and poor financial support schemes from the State contribute to a weakening of the industry. In addition, the industry needs predictability so that operations and investments can be made in a longer time perspective. What will the Council of State do to improve the framework conditions and predictability of the self-governing industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1939	The market for cell products had a serious setback in the early 1980s. Since then, there has been no profitability in the Norwegian self-growth industry. As a result, Norway’s catches were maintained only as a result of public subsidies. In recent years, aid to the fishing vessels, the receiving apparatus and producers has amounted to some 16 million. kr per. years. As a result, there has been significant predictability of the annual aid granted by the State to the industry. Responsible resource management suggests that we cannot operate catch on poppy nets when the stock is significantly reduced. We can't explain why this population has been reduced. The reduction will not result from the catch in recent years. It's been too modest for that. Further research is now being undertaken to find out what might be the reason for the reduction of poppy populations. It may be related to climate change, but we don't know for sure. The stock situation for Greenland-Self is good. If the quotas were taken and they were taken in the form of juveniles, the prisoners would have achieved good prices for the rails. With greater volume, unit costs would have decreased for both self-employed and producers, and there would be significantly better industry economy. Therefore, the low roofing of Greenland's Selves is regrettable. The results of the season in the Vesteris were not uplifting for the four vessels participating. I see the efficiency of the catch and better exploitation of raw materials as a prerequisite for creating profitability and predictability in industry. In the 2008 budget, the Government has proposed to set aside an equal share of Cape. 1050 Item 75 — Subsidies for nutrient measures in fisheries — to self-growth as for 2007. The guidelines and participant criteria for next year's catches have not yet been clarified. In consultation with the industry, we will find a good way to dispose of the funds once the Storting has adopted the budget for 2008. I therefore want to facilitate a support scheme for the next year that helps to take more sales at a higher market value. In the autumn, on the basis of the resources left over from previous years, the Government has drawn up a grant scheme to streamline catches and increase value creation. This is in the form of an investment grant to the vessels, so that the raw material can be used as best as possible. In the eastern ice, in recent years self-anxiety has not resulted in the withdrawal of the most profitable selenium. This is due to the fact that Norwegian vessels do not have access to the Russian 12-mile zone, where the young animals of the seals are mainly present. A number of projects have now been launched to increase the take-off of white-sea seals. Among other things, a Norwegian vessel has applied for entry into the White Sea under the Russian flag and several cooperation projects have also been launched with Russian catch collectives. These are measures favoured by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1954	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that profitability is not what characterises the self-growth industry. It should also be the starting point for political discussion to bring about the necessary support mechanisms. Governments have the right to predictability for industry, but predictability is too low. That's why you have to take a lift. When the situation is as it is on the market, where there are major problems in getting rid of their products, this is also a strong argument for increasing economic support schemes to the industry. The most serious thing is a catch ban on clappy. The industry has asked to be part of what is known as the brand-name catch of poppy. Will the Council of State take the initiative to do so in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1965	As far as the poppy populations are concerned, new research in that area shall be initiated. I will not decide here and now on the individual methods to be used in that research. We will have to come back to that, but we are committed to having a close dialogue with the industry in all areas of self-government policy. With regard to the subsidies to the self-growth industry, I think it is nice that the Progress Party calls for public participation to keep alive in an old industry. As far as the level of aid is concerned, the Government has committed itself, as it has said, to continuing the aid from previous years. So it's about making use of that money in a way that gives the best possible result, both for the self-anxiety and for the self-anxiety industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1974	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that the Progress Party wants to spend more money to support the self-governing industry. There are several reasons for this. It is not only because it is an old and traditional industry, but also because it is important to tax the cell stock in view of the fishing industry. When the situation is as it is on the market, and it may have been done too little by the authorities up against the rest of the world and the witch hunt that has been on the self-anxiety industry, we believe it is right. The signals we are now receiving are simply the continuation of financial support schemes. They're too bad. No one wants to make investments if it is at risk of going to the end of Norwegian self-growth. In the past, the self-gang industry and the whaling industry have been discussed in their own cases at Stortinget. Will the Council of State take the initiative to promote a big message in this way, so that the Storting will discuss this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1985	First, I would just like to say that as far as access to the market for self-afraid products is concerned, there is an area in which the Government takes the utmost seriousness, where we are also active in relation to the countries with which it is important to have contact in this context. But marketing their products is actually a responsibility for the industry. Then, of course, I am familiar with the big message that was presented in the previous period, and also the commitment that the Storting had in that matter. I will come back to Stortinget in a suitable way as a follow-up to Stortinget's processing of the Storing Message in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-07.ana.ud1115e1992	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
