ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e28	Climate change is the biggest challenge of our time. If we recognize that, the climate perspective must enter into all sectors, and we must have a green revolution in public administration. The Berekraft Perspective is important in the Soria Moria Declaration, and it is central to the Government's public sector renewal strategy. Norway should lead the environment, and a series of measures that will renew the public sector will also create a better environment. Thus, the renewal strategy itself has measures that reduce the environmental impact of public activities. It's an offensive strategy. He provides the basis for both increased well-being and better services. The strategy is both an ideological and a political platform for the renewal work of the public sector. The government's view of the public sector differs significantly from that of the government before us, which aimed to make the public sector less competitive and privatization. Our starting point is the Nordic model. The Nordic countries are cutting high both in terms of well-being and in terms of ranking countries according to who is most competitive, who has the most adaptive capacity, and who has the greatest capacity for innovation. So the Nordic countries are cutting high on both distribution and creation, high on welfare and high on productivity. For this reason, the Government has given municipalities more money to give kindergartens to more people, better education at school and more hands to care and care for the elderly. Renewal is not a postponement of competition or privatisation, but it is creating a public sector that provides citizens with the most important welfare services, adapting to their needs, for example. through electronic services. We need people to do the most important welfare tasks. We know that business lacks people for their projects. So we have to make sure that public administration is as efficient and modern as possible. As the Prime Minister said earlier today: ‘But we who are the foremost defenders of the welfare society shall also be the foremost renewers of the welfare society.’ The most important innovation work in the coming years will be the introduction of new technologies, the development of new seabed solutions and the creation of user-friendly and 24-hour electronic management. If there's one thing I get right from residents, from leaders, and from adding to the public, it's just the possibilities that ICT gives us. Therefore, the strategy itself has a number of new electronic services, as an application for free legal assistance. It is being worked out to be able to notify simple relations with the police electronically. Towards the end of the year, an electronic search shall be made for the means of playing sports facilities. A pilot will launch a visa application electronically. We get e-receptors and orders that general and specialists use electronic communications for medical statements, medical messages and medical bills. When moving health refunds from NAV to the Directorate for Social and Health, the service must also undergo digitisation and significant simplification. This is something people experience as simplification, as renewal, in their everyday lives. Of course, the list is not exhaustive, but it shows that the focus on electronic services and processing is future with regard to saving time and saving resources. In addition, as is known to all relevant services that target the population, it shall be available on MiSide before the end of 2009. Let me underline how important it is that these services are universally designed. The government has announced that we will present a bill on this in the fall. It's not acceptable that we in this country see people with disabilities or others outside of using the electronic services because we don't have the responsibility to make them universally designed. So renews and converts the government public sector into layers with them added. For us, it's not a goal to cut into elaborated dishes for them added. We're going the other way. We're playing on layers with them added. We're working together to achieve the goals we've seen. When we're going to adapt the public sector to our diverse society, we're going to do it with them added. We must lead and have a diverse workforce and recruiters from groups that otherwise do not easily enter the labour market. We therefore establish a two-year trial of moderate allowances for people with a migrant background. Therefore, we have a training scheme and a plan of measures to add more people with reduced functionality. That's why we've introduced six-hour day for selected groups of seniles. Not only must we have a workbook that reflects the lack of work, we must not waste the resources of the people who want to work, but who do not get a job, because we cannot offer them a job. That's what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e48	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e51	It has been relatively quiet in the field of competition lately. The council also said nothing about this in its article. I take it as a positive signal, in relation to the slightly turbulent start that was in this magnification period in this area. Right-proportioned last year a Document No. 8 proposals to ensure a level playing field between public and private activities. That's why it's positive that the government is now notifying regulatory changes to limit problems with double roles in municipal owned businesses, as we read in the Evening Post yesterday. On the other hand, it is of concern to industry as well as to welfare production that the Government has promised to raise the tendering threshold from the current limit of 500 000 kroner to the EU level of 1.8 million. kr. The proposal will frustrate competition for public procurement and will provide ground for camaraderie, corruption, discrimination and increased public expenditure. My question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State now, after half the run, clarify whether the proposal is being scrapped, or whether such a weakening of competition in public procurement is actually relevant to this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e60	The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, may not have followed closely if he thinks it has been silent in the field of competition. On the contrary, we've seen ourselves taller. We have increased the promise to KOFA, so we have reduced the processing time. I have ordered KOFA to have a three-month trial period before the fall of the cottage. There's something the representative Torbjørn Hansen was very busy last year. We've done the job. We have reduced the length of the procedure, and we have said that the maximum should be three months. It is active competition policy. Then we have this cottage introduced a ban on the ignition of award points on domestic air travel. We have asked the Competition Authority specifically to follow the IT industry this year. We're waiting for feedback. And the last thing I've done is ask the Competition Authority to see if the cross-country express buses are in violation of competition law or not – a lot of new assignments to the Competition Authority just because we have an active competition policy. When it comes to the proposal requested by Torbjørn Hansen, we haven't put it on ice, but we have said that we are carrying out the evaluation of how the previous threshold rise has worked, before we come up with a new proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e69	The Council of State began to talk about climate in vain. It means something everywhere. When you're concerned about climate, you're also concerned about knowledge, and then you should also be concerned about research, namely finding the knowledge of what we don't know, or the knowledge that we can use to go what we know, some important steps forward. I assume that all government councils in the red-green government are stuck on the Soria Moria statement. I assume that the Swedish Governments in particular insist on the declarations covering the field of research. My wonder, having come so far in a throne debate, is how little research – as a cultural bearer, identity bearer, as shaping the societies of the future and, not least, meeting the climate challenge – has shaped this debate. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State confirm that the Government is committed to all the commitments of the Soria Moria Declaration to escalate to 3 p.m. of gross domestic product? And can she confirm that this will be shown again in the Government's priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e78	Now Dørum challenges the wrong government council, because it is Øystein Djupedal who is Minister of Knowledge and Research. I guess he's also challenging what's going to happen in the state budget tomorrow. I don't intend to go anywhere near Øystein Djupedal or the finance minister in the industry, but what I can confirm is that this government is very busy with research. It also shows the extra permissions of this government on the research page. I myself made a big message last year that showed that the ICT research has been on the ground. Even if in the previous period it was a research area, it has been at a disadvantage. I believe that ICT is also fundamental on the research page. When we're good and we can extract oil in the Barents Sea, it's precisely because we're good at knowledge, we've researched and used new technology. When we're good at other climate areas and now we're going to bet on the big project in Mongstad, it's precisely because we dare to bet on knowledge, research and new technology as a starting point in taking new steps. So I believe the representative of Dørum can be absolutely certain that both the Swedish Government and the entire government are on a solid and secure basis in relation to the Soria Moria declaration and the promises that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e83	The total number of people in pre-employment in Norway is 2.7 million. Of these, approx. 700000 on some form of social security or social security benefit. The number of employees in the general government sector is 730000. This means that there are under 1.3 million workers in value-creating activities in the private sector, and this figure is relatively decreasing. At the same time, private business calls for labour. Does the Council agree that this is a worrying development? And does the Council of State agree that we should now reduce the number of employees in the public sector, so that we free up labour in private activities to create more well-being in the long term? Or is this not a goal for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e90	The challenge that Tybring-Gjedde takes on, we solve in a completely different way than Tybring-Gedde wanted. The only aim of the Progress Party, as the previous government, is to bring the public sector down as part of GDP, thereby emitting and privatising competition. But I want to say that claiming that an assistant in the municipal sector doesn't do value-creating work, but once she becomes an assistant in the private sector, it's value-making, what I think is underestimating the job that all the public women do, and that the bureaucrats do. If there's something that's going to lead to more bureaucrats, it's the Progress Party's welfare policy to regulate all the world's payments to individuals. This gives us a bureaucracy to sit down and make sure that the bidding process is correct, that the basis for competition is right, and in retrospect we have to sit down and check that people get what they have paid for. There will be an infinite bureaucracy in contrast to what this government is investing in: transforming the public sector into the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e95	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e98	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has established that climate change is already under way and that the consequences can be very serious if we do not act now. People can be driven on flight because of natural disasters such as floods, hunger and drought. We are at risk of losing essential parts of the diversity of species. The sea level can rise. Large areas also in our own continent are at risk of desertification. The need to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions is urgent. This is a moral question – yes, an ethical question. Reducing global emissions requires international cooperation on a new and ambitious climate agreement. The left wants Norway to take a leading role in this work. We have to show way, we can't sit and wait, we have to be ambitious and help others to reach out to the goals and actions we are implementing. It has therefore been embarrassing to testify that the Government has been strongly put in place by the EU in the context of the negotiations on Norway’s adaptation to the EU ETS Directive. It is positive that the EU chooses to take more of the measures at home, by limiting the Government’s wish to increase trade in allowances outside the EU. The red-green government has presented its plan to reduce emissions through the Climate Change Communication. The consequences of the Government’s approach are that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway in 2020 will be at about the same level as they were in 1990. It is too little ambitious in a country that, according to the Government itself, should be a leading environmental nation. The government's goal is to cut emissions by 30 pst. by 2020, and that Norway will appear as a country without net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Due to the absence of measures in the Climate Action Communication, it is clear that the Government relies on extensive purchases of allowances from abroad to achieve its objectives. This is morally doubtful, for it bears the mark of progeny. Norway does not become CO2 neutral because we pay for reduced CO2 emissions in other countries. The government wants to continue in the same old track, with large emissions in Norway, without taking into account the transition needed to move from the past emissions communities to the environmental communities of the future. It is obvious that the Labour Party's policy is winning out in the Government. This will lead to Norway being repatriated. The future-oriented economy, on which we are totally dependent if we are to cope with the transformations into a sustainable society, will then miss out on great opportunities. It should be embarrassing for the government parties that the Progress Party is the only opposition party in this process that is enthusiastic about the submitted climate notification. The left will stretch far to contribute to a climate settlement in the Stortinget. Such a settlement will be important in order to achieve a long-term climate policy and to give weight to the important and difficult decisions that need to be taken. However, if there is to be a climate agreement between the government parties and the left, climate policy must be given more offensive content than what has been presented. Measurements have to be made for Norwegian emissions. Quota purchases shall be complementary and not a main measure. A climate settlement must contain several concrete measures and less of the waiting-and-see attitude that characterises the government’s climate policy to date. We need a massive investment in public transport, especially in cities. It's interesting that the population is ready for this kind of bet. We need a major effort on renewable energy production, for increased efforts for the development of climate technologies – that is to say, a boost to research – and we need measures to reduce emissions from oil and gas activities. In all these areas, the Low Emissions Committee has already pointed to solutions that can be implemented immediately and to technological solutions that are already available. The left wants to change Norway into a future-oriented environmental society. The left hopes that the forces of the Government that agree with the Left's priorities will win, and that we can work together with the government parties. We believe otherwise that the option will be that the climate message will be adopted as it exists, with applause from the Progress Party. Then we believe that this magnification will have abused and failed a serious historical responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e127	Seven years ago, the UN adopted the Millennium Goals. By 2015, poverty in the world would be halved and child mortality reduced by two thirds – ambitious targets. Time's up. We all have a responsibility. I was very pleased with the Prime Minister's contributions to the Chamber today. Norway has taken on special responsibility for the thousand-year targets of child mortality and mutilation through increased assistance, multiple vaccines, increased investment in research and the production of new vaccines. I must commend the Norwegian Government and the work done, which is formidable in achieving the UN's Millennium Goal. Last week, according to one source, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg was so prominent in British media that the British sighed and wondered what Gordon Brown could do to gain almost the same attention. The reason? United Nations General Assembly. Jens, together with the Prime Minister of Mozambique, is chairing the UN High Level Panel on Reform in the United Nations. And Norway's prime minister used Bill Clinton's charity fair to intensify the struggle to save the lives of infants and birthing women. The government contributed $1 billion distributed over ten years to achieve the thousand-year targets for reducing child mortality through vaccination and measures to prevent more women from dying in childbirth. And then he led the climate session as well. When we put so much emphasis on vaccination, on reproductive health, measures against HIV/AIDS and the fight against sexual mutilation, it is, of course, linked to the value base on which the Government is based: international solidarity, international policy for distribution, a world order with a strong UN, with sustainable development and well-managed at the centre, and where the fight against poverty is absolutely central. The Foreign Affairs Committee has just been to Angola. In the capital city of Luanda there is one of the world's worst birthplaces, where birthing women and newborns die because of miserable sanitary conditions and lack of midwives and doctors. At the same time, the tax revenue from Norwegian companies to the Angolan State alone is almost as large as Norway's overall bilateral assistance to Africa. It tells us a little bit that development policy is not just assistance. These are also policy priorities in each of the developing countries. That is why I welcome the Government's active and more profiled foreign policy in Africa, as it does. is reflected in the platform for a comprehensive African policy. The highlight of the visit to Angola was the visit to microcredit companies. Women — and some men — have established firms supported by, among others, United Nations organisations and Norwegian People's Aid. These are targeted measures that create jobs and values — small funds, large results. In Namibia, we were impressed by how the young country had established a fisheries management regime almost at the level of the Norwegian, of course through Norwegian competence. Aid isn't always the big money. Equally important is the transfer of knowledge and structures to ensure control of natural resources and to contribute to broad development. The government wants to help developing developing countries achieve growth and development through increased participation in international trade. Improved trading conditions, including increased market access, are important in this context. Norway will work in particular to ensure that trade policy contributes to increased access to and sustainability of financial resources for women. The Government will therefore present an action plan for trade-oriented development cooperation, also called ‘Aid for trade’. The background is, of course, that market access alone is not enough to ensure the poorest countries export to our markets. Countries will not be able to benefit from an open and regulated international trade regime without significant and effective development cooperation. That is why we need infrastructure measures, which is why we need support for the development of small industries, and therefore we need to strengthen the support apparatus for agriculture, so that we can obtain production that also leads to trade, so that countries can operate within the trade regime. We can – and we should – do a lot of help to achieve the Millennium Goals. Nevertheless, assistance is needed — but policy is more important. Lasting structural changes are a prerequisite for a successful development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e153	The Trontals state that the country is in an economic boom with low unemployment and high growth in the economy. This is positive, and so it has been a long time before the Stoltenberg II government took over. The right considers that good times should be used to invest for the future, so that in the years to come we can also benefit from a high level of public and private welfare. Therefore, even in time rises, the government must give priority to a policy that provides a basis for creating, not just for using and exploiting. There have been 13 interest increases since the acquisition of the Stoltenberg II government. Today's Business Yesterday, a unified panel of professionals gives clear advice to the Government to be cautious about fiscal policy. It is a lesson from 2002 and 2003 that an increase in interest rates easily leads to an increase in the price of crowns and a deterioration in competitiveness. If only the Bank of Norway and the monetary policy are responsible, households will be charged higher interest rates and businesses will be charged higher rates of exchange than is necessary. For our district industry in travel, fishing, maritime activities and industry, stronger krone prices are a significant threat. Most people living along the coast know what happens when the dollar rises. It is about leave, dismissals, word smoking, flagging out activities and uncertainty in areas with few other job opportunities. Therefore, the Government must take seriously the Minister of Finance's talk of accountability and resort to careful use of oil revenues. The revised budget was not a contribution to improving competitiveness; the 2008 budget should be improved. An instrument to invest for the future is to invest in research, development and education. The government has been too short-sighted here. Rest cut in research is a promise break and shows the short-term nature of the red-green business policy. Instead of building up the level of knowledge, the government has used the money for other purposes. There'll be more well-being now, but less in the future. For a conservative politician, this is a cardinal sin. We must, in one of the richest countries in the world, be able to build up gradually and create values so that the next generation can take over society in a better state than what you took over. The government promised two years ago a so-called active industrial policy and pointed out five strategic industries to which special attention would be given. It would be a national strategy for maritime business, for marine business, for travel, for energy and for the environment. This has become one of the biggest lifting breaches of the Stoltenberg II government. The creation of strategic industries has become a black player’s game, where the winner receives increased taxes, increased taxes, stricter regulation and reduced competitiveness. The fishing industry has two years of structural freezing. For two years it was scarcely invested in a single fishing vessel, and there was considerable uncertainty about the basic framework conditions. Also, when structural policy came up for major consideration in the spring, there was no interest in ensuring a broadly anchored decision in the Stortinget. The parties to the Government adopted their own proposal by a marginal majority. The Prime Minister said earlier today, in response to a reply from Erna Solberg, that the Government is seeking a wider majority in some cases. Structural policy was not such a matter. This is going to be short-term, and it's not good enough for an industry that's going to invest big money in a long-term perspective. In 2007, the Government launched a new commercial policy bomb, the NOx charge, which makes fishing and shipping a new financial policy dairy cow. Instead of implementing a policy to reduce NOx emissions, the environment is used as an argument to increase taxes on a selective basis. It will be exciting to see what solution the government is proposing for the NOx fee tomorrow. Here, the Workers' Party and the Centre have created considerable expectations. There was a signal in the election campaign that the matter had been clarified at a high level in the Government. I hope for the coastal industry that this wasn't just a tactical diversion. Another electoral campaign for which SV had passed was to confiscate billions of values from shipping. Tomorrow, the Government will propose the withdrawal of two-thirds of the so-called tax credit, which is a fundamental breach of trust and a major setback for one of the country's most important coastal industries. It becomes puzzled and almost comical that the Minister of Industry is presenting a strategy paper for the maritime industry, ‘Should course’, where the main point is 252 million. SEK for research, the same week that this important sector of Norwegian business receives a SEK 14 billion tax shock. It is also a short time since the Government’s project manager for the tourism strategy ended in protesting against the lack of competence and commitment to the Government. At the same time, ownership policy is characterised by impotence, with political personal attacks on most of what we have of directors and leaders of state-owned businesses. Earlier today, the representative Upbeøen Hansen described the exercise of ownership as professional and tidy. I strongly disagree with that. Future value creators deserve better. Right will have a new course, a policy that provides more jobs, more value creation and more well-being in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e198	In the census, the Government says: ‘The increased investment in a modern road infrastructure throughout the country’. Furthermore, the Government will ‘strengthen environmentally friendly transport and modernise the rail system in order to make it more competitive as a means of transport’. This government has performed a reverse operation and a significant boost in the transport sector. It started in so far as the previous enlargement period, when the current government party in conjunction with the Progress Party rejected the proposal of the Bondevik government to the transport plan for 2006-2015. The majority of the population had greater ambitions, and the government is following up. This year, the promises are at the level of the transport plan, and in particular, a priority is given to road maintenance. What characterises the government's transport policy is a holistic approach to road, rail and other public transport, aviation and shipping. Because we have to exploit the advantages of the various means of transport. Then we have major challenges in the future that also require a holistic approach. First of all, we have much greater traffic growth than what was foreseen. From the first six months of last year to the first six months of this year, traffic growth is 3.8 pst. And what's really demanding is that heavy traffic increases by 10 pst. This leads to increased wear, bursting capacity and greater accident risk. The zero vision if no fatal or serious injury is confirmed. That is why we need to increase the effort on road safety. For years we've been talking about getting goods across from road to track. Now we're happy with that. For example, 50 pst is going. of freight traffic between Oslo and Trondheim no on track, between Oslo and Bodø there is 80 pst, and between Oslo and Bergen 60 pst. But now the capacity is detonated. When business finally wants to use the railway, we need to build up the railways to receive more. Secondly, after many years of lack of investment, there is much to be done on the road and track. This requires priority for road maintenance and maintenance and operation. The third challenge I want to address is that now it's going to be more expensive than planned, so we're going to get less money done. This makes it harder to keep the project implementation schedule. The fourth challenge is that the transport sector actually accounts for one third of CO2 emissions, and transport emissions increase more than in other sectors, precisely because of the related traffic growth. I want to stay a little bit on this last challenge. Climate change is becoming increasingly and urgently noted, and the transport sector must take its share of the gap. CO2 taxes, vehicle taxes, supplements for public transport and pedestrian and bicycle roads and land policies are important instruments that have already been actively used. In addition, the Government proposes a number of measures in the Climate Change Communication. Eco-friendly cars with new technologies, the development and use of environmentally friendly fuels and much higher rail and other public services are important components of the solution. Measures that can be most effective include international aviation and shipping in future climate agreements. This was clearly a central point when the Prime Minister spoke at the UN climate meeting last week, as it was also in his speech today. We cannot both solve the climate noise and at the same time continue with emissions. I'm glad that the prime minister in his speech after he had received the throne speech, just underlined the leadership responsibility we have in relation to doing something about the climate challenges, even though the measures are not as popular. It is then easy to refer to car pricing, or what is often called a rush-time charge, as an example of a measure that is not popular but can be effective, and which will be more effective when people see the results in terms of reduced emissions and not least reduced queues for those who have to drive a car and a truck. So I'd like to add that a clear assumption is that one first has a well-developed collective offering, so that people have an alternative, and it has to be local political support. Our effort at home is a commitment to be able to influence the international climate negotiations in a positive direction. There are many measures at home in the climate communication for the transport sector, including: change in car and fuel taxes, and in this area we are already well under way. But we must also be drivers of international work, and the Climate Action Communication says that the Government will be a driver in European work for ever more stringent requirements for vehicles. The aim is for cars sold after 2015 to use, as far as possible, climate-neutral or non-emission fuels. We need to improve communication – accessibility, road safety. However, reducing emissions must be an overarching objective in transport policy in the future. If we don't put in strong measures here, it'll actually increase dramatically in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e227	For the poor in Norway, the census was a disappointment, followed by the Prime Minister today. As so many times before, the government is betting on helping poor people anywhere other than here at home in Norway. Combating poverty in Norway was not mentioned in one word, although in the election campaign it was a hot topic that the government parties fiercely debated. Where does the implementation of these elections take place? It becomes pathetic when, in response to Siv Jensen today, the Prime Minister says that to help people out of poverty, one must first give them work. Well, that's probably important. My question will then be: are the 200,000 minimum pensioners living below the EU poverty line going to work? Is it that an 80-year-old minimum pensioner has to go to work to escape living a life of poverty? Since the red-green government took over, there have become more and more poor. Yes, studies show that an increasing proportion of those receiving the minimum pension as old-age pensioners or disabled persons are becoming poorer. In the 2007 budget and in the context of the year’s social security settlement, the Progress Party proposed to lift this group and those receiving disability benefits up to a level above the EU poverty line. But no, the red-green apparently seemed that the minimum pensioners could cope with far less. It turns out once again that the Progress Party was right. More and more of the minimum pensioners were in the poor category because of the level of the pension. It is unworthy, in my view, that the richest country in the world treats all those who were housewives or who, for other reasons, did not earn additional pension during the construction of this country after the war, in such a way. For both moral and economic reasons, this should be the basis for the Storing to raise the minimum pension to exceed the poverty line set by the EU. I had hoped that this was part of the promises of the throne. Unfortunately, I was wrong. Another and very important group, which is often categorised as poor, and which unfortunately often goes beyond the law, are drug users. The most important way to lift this group out of the drug hell is to give them an offer of detoxification. Even here, Norway has managed to create queues, which means that when someone is motivated to get out of the rush, and thus perhaps out of poverty, the government can't afford to help the weakest in this field either. I find it regrettable that the government does not intend to help these out of poverty and the drug hell they live in. Public charges and charges largely help to hit poor people in this country, and perhaps even worse – create more poor people who could have had the opportunity to manage themselves. But neither do the red-greens warn of any new policy. One of the first things this government did after its entry into the government offices was to raise the food tax. Although this made little difference for those who have industrial wages, such tax increases affect those who have the least in society most. In Norway, we have an innumerable amount of high charges that all suffer. Unfortunately, the least affected, and often the least affected, are those charges that determine a port as poor when one is in this risk group. One thing is charges that affect non-socially. Another case is high fees that are levied, which can often help to hit those who are either poor or who are at risk of falling below the poverty line. Such a fee as I had hoped the government would have proposed to reduce or remove the collection fees. Often, when people get into a difficult situation, these sky-high fees send people outside the pit. Now, of course, people have to pay their bills, but by charging them huge fees you don't make the situation any easier. In addition, of course, there are high salaries from debt collection companies, which are taxed at a maximum of 25 pst. VAT, something of course the debtor has to pay. Overall, this means that very many people who could make up their own mind end up on the taxpayer’s table because the state has demanded so much of them that they cannot bear the burden. I had hoped that everything would talk about poverty in the election campaign would give concrete results in this throne, but unfortunately it seems that the red-green will continue to pursue a policy that has so far given more and more poor people in this country, when they have not chosen to go in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e248	‘ [[...]] This was a quote from Minister of Finance Erik Brofoss’ financial speech in February 1946. - Well said! Such basic facts are very important to be reminded of today, because today many think differently. The Norwegian state and many opinion-making residents have plenty of easy money. It's typical of the behavior. This is money that has its basis in the power of vast natural resources, where the right to rule combined with previous long-term social organisation and investment makes us harvest where others have sown. The Norwegian people are at this privileged international, and we have a great responsibility to sweep at our own door in the climate challenge. That's how we should be different countries. That's how we could, with greater weight, claim to speak with a maritime voice. The world needs seaworthy voices. But the focus on financial management, stock prices, luxury investments and welfare improvements for the better-advanced has unfortunately become even more central as our wealth of money has increased. So in what forums is this dominant vision created? The production of current views in the country takes place in Oslo by a relatively limited number of people in important positions, referred to as the Oslo elite. This view is characterised by a single focus on the share price, little contact with and understanding of what is going on outside the country. Their perception is based on what is perceived in the financial centres. I'm concerned that government circles don't pay any more attention to this view of the Oslo elite versus the view that's going on across the country. In addition, central interview themes are increasing economic differences between people at work, strong centralisation of people's residence as well as production life and strongly increasing private luxury consumption with associated use and casting mentality. As elected representatives, we have a great responsibility to allocate the resources available today and in the short term. We have a responsibility to lay the foundation for long-term activities and value creation across the country. Well-being and long-term employment depend on the basis we have today. I repeat: today we reap what is the result of the long-term thinking of previous generations. Today’s Norwegian welfare level is based on the political will to build production-based activities many decades ago. Active policies, boldness and willingness to think about long-term social construction rather than short-term political gain have led to the development of more heavy and internationally competitive industries in Norway. The development of hydropower and the willingness to see past short-term economic fluctuations mean that we have both the wood processing industry and the metal and materials industry in Norway, which is the world leader, and is the basis for housing in many places in the country. Willing to take control of the development of oil resources has led us to have a strong oil industry and not just a branch country for foreign oil companies. The desire to adapt the framework conditions for international shipping to a global situation has led us to have a maritime industry and a maritime industry that is unique in the world. Look at the map where Norway is located, and we see Norway's dependence on mastering life at sea and sea and thereby being an important maritime nation with a profitable, modern shipping. This is sea-lighting, at least for us who are farmers, while those who sit in the offices of the largest educational institutions don't realize it, and it can be very expensive for Norway. Around these industries, other activities have developed to be important for the creation of value added and employment throughout the country. A common feature of the central industries is that they are essential for the maintenance of housing and employment in the districts as well as in the central districts. The active industrial policy of the past has been based on the fact that we are a small country, our natural advantage, national competence and a desire to maintain a decentralised housing structure. We are now facing a globalization that is stronger than ever. It confronts us with major challenges, and an active policy must then be put in place to prevent the weathering of traditional competitive industries based on our natural resources or our location. In this situation of high economic activity and high oil revenues, our greatest enemy and next generation is our historylessness and introversion – historylessness in the sense that we forget that it is the long-termity and thoughts of the future that we today reap and build on, and introvertivity in the sense that we see only our own little spirit, and forget that in the short and long term we build our well-being on interaction with the world around us based on the industries that we have the advantage of operating with. We have great challenges. The former party leader of Gunnar Stålsett said in 1977 that growth is no more to consume, but to manage better. That's to those degrees a golden statement today as well. This applies to those degrees in the climate debate where consumption patterns, consumption levels and use of energy resources are central. It's our hope that this will shape the red-green government, these long-term interests, increasingly in the future, because that's something that's absolutely crucial for us to take the necessary leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e277	In the Common Era, the Government said little about immigration and integration policy, despite Norway’s enormous challenges in immigration and not least the lack of integration of certain groups of non-Western immigrants. It's just to mention keywords such as gender mutilation in the immigrant communities, coerciveness, unemployment, which are far greater among immigrants than among the Nordics, overrepresentation in crime statistics and the oppression of women that we unfortunately know takes place in some of the immigrant communities. But the biggest problem is, however, the government's lack of ability and willingness to see the long-term consequences of what is a totally irresponsible immigration policy. The proposal for a new foreign law, as presented by the Government in June, also does not offer a clearly needed change in the course of immigration policy – on the contrary. With the SV in government, we can only expect even more naive genius. As the challenge grows, the Government and the State Council are sitting in complete peace and hope that the problems will be resolved in this way on their own — not unlike what changing governments in this country have done for nearly 20 years. Instead of solving the problems, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen use their time to review the language to make it almost impossible to put words to the problems. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion’s new guidance for a so-called inclusive language represents so far the Government’s ‘all hour high’ in terms of political correctness to bring the immigration debate to silence. I'll take some examples from this supervisor. So now it's not politically correct to use words like ‘foreign culture’ or ‘foreign culture’, and ‘foreign language’ is not good at all. Nor is it the word ‘skin color’. Yes, even non-Western immigrants have become a real fi-word. Even the term 'Western values' or 'Norwegian values' is words that we cannot take into our mouths. At the same time, the use of words such as ‘Muslims’, ‘home country’ should be limited in reference to immigrants and ‘culture’ in reference to immigrants. We're not going to use the term 'the Somali, Pakistani or Muslim environment', but we're going to use it in singular form. ‘Ethnic Norwegian’ is not good. Nor is it ‘foreigner’. The Muslim world is not a good concept. Even ‘integration’ is no longer a politically correct concept. Now you have to use the word "include". So we have to change the Norwegian language to adapt to the multicultural theory of the Government. Who is being integrated – excuse me, including? In the 1984 book, which I'm sure most people in this room have read, George Orwell describes a cruel, totalitarian regime represented by ‘Brother’ who knows no limits to the use of instruments to suppress its inhabitants. One of the instruments is the language, or ‘Newspeak’, as it says in the book. ‘Newspeak’ is a very limited language, a language in which unwanted words have been systematically removed so that it is impossible to criticise the rulers or think of an alternative to what exists — in other words, the ultimate politically correct language. State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has contributed with his «Newspeak» to making the immigration debate a politically correct minefield that many will simply refuse to enter. But that might have been the whole purpose. The party of progress does not accept the government's politically correct index finger. We will continue to use terms such as ‘non-Western immigrants’. We're going to keep talking about 'Norwegian values', not just in spite of the elite, but mainly because there's a precise concept that it's impossible to avoid if you're going to have something other than a skin debate on immigration and integration policy. In a free democracy, no major brother shall be allowed to censor the debate. This country needs a government that acts in immigration policy, not one that just makes it difficult to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e294	The government has announced a continued strong commitment to the implementation of the Soria Moria Declaration. The priorities are based on a thorough analysis and assessment of needs and a policy basis for community values, equal opportunities and solidarity. The languages of the throne and the message of the state of the kingdom show that we're on, but we're not done. There are still many challenges in the future in almost all areas of society, and the expectation and impatience of society and its citizens in dealing with these challenges is great. It showed, not least, the recent local elections, with a focus on continuing shortages in the care of the elderly, schools and kindergartens, the continuing need to strengthen the economy of hospitals, the continued need to strengthen transfers from the country to the municipalities and the continued need for increased investment in education and research to ensure value creation and the maintenance of the welfare state, to mention something. All of these are areas that the Government has prioritised so far and in the Common Era said it will take priority in the coming years as well. Nevertheless, this is overshadowed by the ‘discontent of rising expectations’. The private wealth is increasing, and the better the private economy we get, the higher expectations we get that the public service offer should meet our individual needs, and the greater the gap between expectations and services offered. This again overshadows the areas where there really is a need for increased effort. The development of roads and railways, ports and fairways, pedestrian and cycle roads and public transport are also areas of great need for many years to come. Some of them are prioritised in today’s national transport plan. The government of Stoltenberg is the first government to implement the framework of this plan, and has granted over NOK 2 billion more this year than the previous government. The government has announced that the increased investment in a modern road infrastructure throughout the country will continue, and that the Government will strengthen environmentally friendly transport, and modernise the rail system to make it more competitive as a means of transport. This is linked to the goal of Norway being a leading country in climate policy. I am pleased with the government's historic communication effort and the priority of both roads and railways. Good communications are fundamental to our value-making and well-being, for business development and regional development. The aim of the working party is therefore to implement the majority decision on the national transport plan in Stortingen in the amount of DKK 1 billion more to roads and DKK 1 billion more to roads per year. years during the period. However, it is a paradox that while we are working to implement today's NTP decision, the picture has changed dramatically since this plan was drawn up and adopted. Road traffic has increased much more than foreseen and the road network is in a poorer condition. Construction costs of road and rail investments have increased beyond what was foreseen in the priorities. At the same time, we know that road traffic is clearly the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. Freight traffic on the railway is decommissioned, and there is a strong focus on the development of high-speed rail, which was not the case when NTP was created just two to three years ago. The expectations of society and its citizens for development and implementation have strengthened in recent years. The impatience is great in terms of building up the road and rail networks now. It is not least we who work in the Transport and Communications Committee. The dissatisfaction of rising expectations also applies here. Despite the fact that the government’s commitment to trade has never been greater, the perception is that it is good, but that the needs and challenges in this area are great and require more. Work on the national transport plan is under way again. This plan will provide the basis for the overall priorities of the transport system in our country over the next ten years. Good accessibility and a sustainable transport system shall be ensured that contributes to the achievement of environmental and climate policy objectives and that road safety considerations are taken into account. We cannot unilaterally deploy the road network or unilaterally deploy the rail network, the sea or air transport. In transport policy, we must focus on the whole and use the advantage of the different modes of transport where it is best suited. In total, we will then have a smooth and efficient transport system that will also protect the environment. Today’s NTP is a step on the road towards seeing the transport modes in the context and facilitating so-called intermodal solutions. But there are still close shots between the different directorates responsible for the organisation. It continues to be a challenge to achieve a coherent transport planning and a coherent and coherent development of the transport system in Norway, which also recognises that transport policy is an instrument for addressing the environmental and climate challenges of urban and rural policies and of industrial policy in this country. Perhaps the biggest challenge is that the plan's assumptions change faster than the plan is updated. I think the time has come for a transport reform that facilitates such a holistic thinking, which meets the challenges and expectations we get along. I hope the next NTP can be a tool for such a reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e320	Remarkably, many of the speakers of the government parties in this debate have taken the lead in the past and have been briefed in relation to the past, more specifically the election that took place two years ago. If that choice is made, we use quite a lot of words to say that Norwegian voters made a deliberate choice. They chose a warmer society and not a colder one, they chose more community and no less community – and a whole series of other honors. It is striking that you do not seem to have noticed that it has been a choice quite recently. If you want to put the same interpretation key on it, you have to believe that Norwegian voters two years later have said no to what they said yes to two years ago. It's clearly a misinterpretation. It is rather that the Norwegian electorate has discovered – those who did not make up a majority behind the three parties that are now in government, even though it was close – that they have been tricked. That is, the majority government we have today has promised far, far more than it is in the vicinity of complying. Even in the area where you've put yourself most in the harness to pay the brigades, namely, in kindergarten, we're in a situation where the government breaks both the headlifts, both the time-bound promise of when we're going to have full babysitting, and the time-bound promise of what maximum price parents should be guaranteed when they need kindergarten for their children. Both promises are broken – eye-catching. It is probably right to add – perhaps in parentheses – that it does not seem that the secondary promise to which SV’s then party leader and current finance minister added, about what would happen if the promises were not fulfilled, namely that she herself should resign, will be fulfilled. There's nothing to suggest it. In the class struggle a few days ago, the head of the SV Youth Party wrote that it was time for the government to join forces and make a further promise, namely the promise of the level of taxation to be maintained. The interesting thing was that she took what was given that this government breaks promises. There's just questions about setting up in order of priority in which order to break your promises. It tells a lot about the way of thinking, and I think it explains a lot on the way why there is a very conspicuously large majority of Norwegian voters who at the recent local elections did not find any reason to vote on any of the three government parties. In the Common Era, a section deals with health and care policy. It is one of the areas where one must believe comes under the great challenges that the Prime Minister has repeatedly said to use the great resources. This section of the Common Era is strikingly ambitious. If the waiting times in Norwegian hospitals — where the patient queue has increased by 20,000 in one year — are quite impressive, it is only said that they should be kept down. There is no indication that one has the ambition to get the development to go in the right direction again, as it did under the previous government, where the waiting time went down every year after the hospital reform. For the third time, the government says to bring up a escalating plan for the drug field. So far no one has seen the rotation of it, and no one knows when it might show up. A proposal has been made for the Storting to introduce a three-month waiting guarantee for children and young people in psychiatry. In the 2005 elections and in the election campaign before 2005, both Kristin Halvorsen and the current Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad said that a one-month waiting period was a scandal. So now the ambitions are written down for a three-month waiting guarantee. There is nothing to suggest that this government is able to prioritize the weakest first. And then you wonder that SV has lost half of its voters!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e333	In my opinion, the debate on the subject of languages so far has, in a price-sensitive way, clarified important differences between the opposition parties. The natural conclusion now must therefore be that there is really a greater difference between the opposition parties than between the government parties and more of the opposition parties. The debate has also highlighted far more important and far greater differences. What has been a central theme is the differences in the world. Traditional assistance is very important in correcting the injustice that the worldview shows us, otherwise an area that the Stoltenberg government is putting great emphasis on. Aid has now been given an important additional element through the climate challenges we are facing. That the globe is about to heat up, hit first and strongest those that we through the traditional assistance actually want to help. This seriousness is included in the work of the Government and Government Parties. The climate communication presented in June, the census, and not least the Prime Minister’s emphasis on this issue on a number of occasions, highlights the seriousness of the government’s challenge. I have tried to form a picture of the opposition's role in the national debate. I'm not going to spend time drawing up characteristics that have been used, but just confirming that my observation is an oppositional trend that testifies to the fact that people are more concerned with the objectives of rhetoric than with climate policy commitments. This gives me reason to recall the following: Two years ago, when we assumed the government responsibility, we also took over the climate goal of the previous government. The legacy was that we would increase greenhouse gas emissions by 1 pst. Now we're going to cut them by 10 pst. In 2020, the cuts shall be equivalent to 30 pst and, last but not least, after the Workers' Party had a national meeting, carbon neutrality has become an environmental policy concept and becomes an environmental policy commitment. For the climate, it is the overall commitments and ambitions that constitute the most important foundation and, in isolation, not where action is taken to meet the commitments, although I share the moral and important perspective that we must show responsibility and carry out significant emission reductions nationally as well. In the Workers' Party, we base this on our climate goals and our climate work. The climate communication is thus a confirmation that we are taking care of the moral and important perspective of a significant reduction at home. I believe that, through the work of climate change in the autumn, we can further increase the commitment to the future, including the national ones. But then there must be a willingness to compromise, not only on the part of the government parties, but also on the part of the opposition which has a credible starting point in the climate issue. What we put into action by measures beyond our own national borders is also of great importance, both in terms of the cohesion of social and economic differences and in terms of the growth framework for developing countries. The western and industrialised world must take the heaviest stockpiles of climate action. It is we who have to take responsibility for the ability of developing countries to participate in economic growth within the planet's resilience. At the same time, it is we who have to make a significant contribution to countries such as the United States. China and India will accept future global environmental agreements. The main challenge in climate issues is not the nuances between the Government and the opposition. The main national challenge is that the Progress Party, as an essential part of the opposition, neither recognises the Kyoto Agreement and its mechanisms nor accepts that we are dealing with anthropogenic climate change. There should be a serious cross of thought among the opposition's parties. The left has recognized this. Should the Right In Love of the Advancement Party end up in a marriage where perhaps the Christian People's Party also joins, this can only be characterized as an adulterous marriage in the light of the future climate work. I hope that as many of us as possible after the autumn's climate work here in Stortingen, we will reach the same goals in order to take advantage of our opportunities to meet our obligations. The obligations we have for the generations of the future, not only nationally, but globally, deserve to be coordinated and shared responsibility. That is the responsibility of everyone in this Chamber, but I stress that not only the government parties are responsible in this context, but also the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e352	After two years with the red-green government, it is interesting to take a look at what has happened in the field of business policy and perhaps especially at the government's ownership policy, which has been in focus, or lack of ownership policy, at least a lack of understanding of what an owner's role is. What has shaped the ownership of the Government has been messy and chaos. I want to use this post to draw up some examples of what happened these two years. So when selling the state's ownership of BaneTele, the government chose a bid from the Broadband Alliance that was 200 million. kr under the best offer. The Bredband Alliance was properly adjusted without the others being given the opportunity to adjust their bid. This happened despite the fact that the Council of State Odd Eriksen, who was the Council of State at the time, received clear warnings from his own advisers. He did not care about that, and that also meant that during the sales process the entire board went off in protest, and it did not have the support of the employees at BaneTele. Then there was Telenor and the option program for Telenor Chief Baksaas. So there was once Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen out there criticizing for the open stage an option program that they themselves had been involved in adopting. What's quite amazing is that you go out into the media and make a strong criticism instead of taking such questions where they belong, that's in the general assembly, or even more correctly, that you do it in the boardroom, where it should happen. Then it's the options in Hydro. All summer and half the autumn there was a big fight around these. As early as 21 June, both Prime Minister and Minister of Industry were briefed on the Hydro option programme. Then they didn't do anything. A few weeks passed, the media was able to reveal the size of this, and then they re-entered the media and criticized the board and the riding. Once again, of course, this should have been taken in completely different areas. I am amazed that one did not react when one first received an orientation, but responded to this matter when it had been revealed in the media. Then it is not surprising that also the red-green politicians at Stortinget were pushing on this wave of criticizing both the regime and the riding. It is not exactly good communication when the largest owner does not use the opportunity to do so, namely in the general meeting, but uses the public space to criticise the management of the company where he is the largest owner himself. I could have said a lot about what happened to Reten and his way of doing it. It is quite clear that the option program for which the Hydro government was in favour was far too large. But then the government would have reacted in a completely different way. The fact that the Horseman is drawing as a leader today, I fully understand, because I have to ask myself the question: who in every day will be the director of a company when you have as amateur owners as the Government and the Minister of Industry are? So just to take the last thing that was up – this thing with Hydro and Libya, that there has been corruption there – it didn't take many minutes for the Red-Green politicians here on the Stortinget to go out and demand their Horseman's head on a barrel. What you're doing is simply talking down the values in the company. You scare away investors, you scare away partners, you weaken the jobs of the hundreds of employees, and you ruin Hydro's opportunities, Telenor's opportunities and the opportunities of other companies abroad to do a good job, and to join in and create values and develop these companies. It's the results of the government's ownership policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e365	We've been halfway out in the boom period, and two years have passed since the Soria Moria declaration was presented. Two years is long enough to be able to say something about the ability to deliver, and this government is characterized by its delivery. The 2005 election campaign was to a large extent a struggle for values and the direction that society should take. Several years of right-wing rule were about to destroy many of the most important institutions in our society. The municipalities were strangled, and the only task of municipal politicians in many places was to find ever new areas where it was possible to cut. It meant less care, less security, fewer kindergartens and poorer schools. And when the core tasks suffer, the whole idea of the welfare state is put under pressure. The rescue operation for the local economy that has taken place under the current government has been, in depth, a rescue operation for the welfare state and some of the most important ideas of our society are built around. It hasn't just been municipal economy. One of the first things the government did when it went on was to stop a break in the work environment law that would weaken job protection and open for longer working hours than today. It was a legislative change that would make it easier to exploit ordinary workers. We put an end to it. The government prevented what was about to become a commercialization of Norwegian school. We stopped a development that would have made the best education available only to those who could afford to pay for it. Now we're going to use all the forces to make public school so good that everyone gets equal opportunities regardless of Dad's bank account. Someone claims that we'll all do the same thing. It's a basic mistake. By providing everyone with the opportunity to cultivate the best in themselves and choose an education, we create a society of diversity. Then we have carried out an emergency rescue operation for the fall-back, and the significance of it can hardly be overestimated. It has been seized to ensure that an enormously important and eternal natural resource remains the property of the people. We've made sure that we own our own feet. It's a decision that's going to be standing as decisive and important for a long time after us. The Soria Moria Declaration is a declaration that words are spoken about internationally in poverty and development settings. The government has wiped out foreign debt, and there is an enormously important grip in a world where poor countries spend more money serving debt interest than they spend on health care and at school. And it's not without reason that there has been an important requirement for solidarity movements and social movements over many years. One of the first things the government did was to withdraw demands for the privatisation of public services in developing countries through the GATS negotiations. We withdrew from the war in Iraq. We have increased the aid budget. But perhaps most important of all: we now have a government with the will and ability to show international leadership in the fight against climate change and in establishing a new and more ambitious agreement under the Kyoto agreement. It is the most important task of our time – it has been said by a number of speakers today – and it requires everything we have of political will and implementation. If we don't get such an agreement in place, everything else that politicians are doing becomes irrelevant. We're politicians in a time of fate. We have the knowledge of what climate change leads to. Nobody can say afterwards that we didn't know. We have the technology we need to do something about it. We have the money. There are no excuses. Everything stands and falls with our will to make the right choices. If you follow the political debate in Norway a little superficially, you can get the impression that it is all about disagreement about larger or smaller individual cases and that there is agreement on the large lines. That's wrong. There are huge distances between those politicians who are constantly attacking the welfare state and trying to erode it, and those politicians who want to protect it and make it even better. This is about what kind of community model we believe in, whether we believe in solving the problems jointly or individually. And this is about the idea of solidarity, whether we as a rich country should take our responsibility towards the world's poor seriously. It may be pompous to talk about a new course for Norway, about a different social development. But when we look at the important and big steps that have been taken in the last two years, it becomes very clear that it is now governed by completely different goals – goals that are about a society built on community and solidarity, which takes care of its inhabitants, and which gives everyone the opportunity to contribute and to realize their own dreams and visions. That's the society we want. That's the society we run.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e392	The man-made climate change is the greatest political challenge of our time. As a nation that has contributed greatly to global warming through our oil and gas exports, Norway has a moral responsibility to help solve the problems. The consequences of our way of life are a world with more drought, more floods, more storms, the melting of the police and the glaciers, reduced biodiversity, more refugees, more poverty and increased human suffering. The paradox is that people in developing countries are the most affected, despite the fact that most of the emissions have occurred in developed countries. The Christian People's Party's environmental policy is rooted in the responsibility of the administrator. As human beings, we are required to manage creation in line with nature's ability to endure. One of those who have said this more clearly recently is former prime minister in Sweden Göran Persson. He said the following to Schrödinger's cat on September 27, this year: It's in nature my commitment begins, it's in creation, within this amazing, completely incomprehensible complex creation, where every little detail intervenes into each other, and which creates this understanding, this wonderful thing that we call nature. That's where the exposure starts. And we're going to spoil this. We're spoiling it in our generation. And we might be the first to hand over the farm to the next generation in a worse state than it was when we inherited it from our parents. It's a heavy, moral responsibility, and we're going to try to change that. Göran Persson is a social democrat, and with these words he demonstrates a strong relationship with us Christian democrats. In his time as Prime Minister in Sweden, he prioritised a climate policy that has already made Sweden comply with its Kyoto commitments today. In recent years, Sweden has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions, while Norway’s emissions are increasing. In view of the fact that the climate is our greatest political challenge, I am surprised that climate policy did not have a more prominent place in the speech of the throne. It may seem that the Government is satisfied with the presentation given to the climate in the Climate Communication and that there is now time to focus on other areas. I hope I'm wrong. I hope the Government and the majority of the population listened to the emphasis of Grand President Jagland in this Chamber Tuesday that the good solutions usually come if those who have the majority listen to more than themselves. Storting President Jagland was also clear and clear on another Tuesday, when he stressed that we should succeed internationally, we must increase our efforts at home. This is a political opinion of an experienced parliamentarian to whom it is worth listening. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's goal of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. in 2020 and the objective of a carbon-neutral society in 2050. The political disagreement is not about these main objectives, but about the visions of these objectives, and what concrete measures are needed to achieve the main objectives and fulfil the visions. Is it the Government's vision that we should buy ourselves free from demanding conversions in meeting with the carbon-neutral society in 2050? Or will the government build a low-emission society that sees the pace of oil extraction along with the development of cleaning technology, which sees the benefit of changing and stabilising our energy use, and which sees that a low-emission society only achieves if we play with people most and their ownership of their environment and nature? I find it natural to highlight this after hearing the country's prime minister earlier today that the Government will assume responsibility for large-scale emission reductions in other countries, thus achieving greater and faster reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. I hope there are politicians in this room who in the next few months dare to be visionary, radical and committed to climate policy – not for their own sake, but for the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e417	Policy is about entering into its time, finding viable compromises and driving through reforms. But politics is not rooted and detached from the past. Per Sivle writes about this in the poem Soga, a kind of program poem about how much we can learn from history: "You're a Light, a Lightman rides a foot, who goes on and on and on." Not least, I think, we can learn a part of the history of the Department of Local and Regional Affairs. It was created by the Royal Resolution of 29 October 1948, and – as it is called – “entered into operation from 20 December of the same year”. My point is that for almost 60 years this department has been involved in the development of Norwegian society. A red thread all the way has our municipalities, which after the Second World War has become an increasingly important role, both as service providers and as community developers. Landfills were added to the Ministry after the closure of the Ministry of Supply and Repatriation in 1950. District policy was seriously a heavy field in the department as a result of the creation of a separate department for this field in 1968. The history of the department is wider and deeper than this short sketch, but – to say it with Sivle – throws light on the road further. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has had and has a superior responsibility for the Municipality of Norway. This will facilitate local well-being throughout the country. Here's the task of ensuring that local democracy works. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has and also has the primary responsibility to support and facilitate jobs and attractive communities throughout Norway and to enable people to choose where and how they want to live. A responsibility that everyone should be able to live safely is also here. The work of removing housing waste and improving the situation of those who labor on the housing market is a task set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. Housing measures amount to 3 billion dollars in the year. A forward-looking housing policy is still decisive in the work on less poverty, for more equalisation and for justice in this society. The government warned in the throne that one would go further along the road that is lit up. The local economy shall be strengthened further. It provides more local welfare, more and better welfare services, within kindergartens, in school, in culture, and in care and care. In addition to more money, there are signs of changes in the rules and framework conditions: next year, proposals for a new income system will be submitted to municipalities, as well as a proposition on the decentralisation of power, authority and tasks to the regions. The spring also comes with a big message about local democracy. Our task, indeed our duty, is all the time in this Chamber and in the Government to work for the people's government to realize its potential. Then we have to talk about democracy, criticise it, then reform it, precisely because the People's Government makes it possible for people to live free lives and find better solutions to common challenges. Local democracy is a spearhead in that way, because it is most flexible, most open to testing and failure. 40 years after the creation of a district policy department in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the government is holding out as it has voted. We need to put in place a support system for newly established growth businesses in the districts and create a competence centre for district development. And by law, the country is to be built, literally: a proposition with proposals for new planning and building laws, where the core is strengthened control and supervision in construction projects and strengthened universal design requirements. The time in politics has taught me that politics takes time. Ideas shall be earthed among people, many shall hear, and many shall be built. Our challenge as the populace is to listen as well as to rent. The balance between being a voice and being an echo can sometimes be hard to find. That is why we need to change words like this today, debates where the gaze is superior, and where opinions about and visions for the future become the birthplace of many, from all parts of the country and from all parties. There is also the possibility to notify that a central and local thinker is new, and I am now delighted to have registered the commitment that is in the municipalities for climate plans and for work to ensure better quality of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e445	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e448	The government's housing policy is schizophrenic. One day the government says one thing, while the next day it says the opposite. Let me explain: the Predecessor of the Government of Meltveit Kleppa made new building regulations that did it 15 pst. more expensive to rebuild, while requiring manufacturers of construction materials to convert the entire production into a period during which the pressure in this market was already significant. In addition, the Government forced the municipalities to pursue a policy that could best be characterised as a politically adopted lack of land. The result was increased price pressure and less new construction. Meltveit Kleppa's first play as a municipal minister, however, was to build 5,000 new homes for the homeless. So the government first does everything it can to prevent new construction, and then it tries to appear to be good Samaritans by helping those who fall outside. My question is this: Will the Council of State take the initiative in building regulations which, for once, make it cheaper to build new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e457	If the definition of schizophrenia is the one that the representative Amundsen now introduced, I have to distance myself from such a definition. I am very pleased that the Haga Council presented building regulations that mean that the environment – and energy use – is completely different from what it is until now, while at the same time it is cheaper to build because one saves the corresponding means of heating. So I'm going to follow up and make sure that these regulations are followed. Is it not true that the Progress Party is here today and on one side is busy fighting poverty, and on the other hand is criticising a government council that has been called upon to secure more difficult places of residence?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e466	Today, the VG reveals that the Centre Party lost the fight in the Government to prioritize the poor through the perhaps most targeted scheme – the housing support scheme. In today's debate we have heard the Prime Minister reply as to why unemployment is low, but I expect the former Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa to know well that there are groups in society that do not have the opportunity to get into work. These may hit poverty hardest. For this reason, the Right continues to have a historical commitment to combating poverty, which we started in government. Yes, the Right even received praise from the former parliamentary leader of the Senterpartiet Meltveit Kleppa – in the debate on the revised budget in ours – for our commitment to poverty. There is a clear contrast to today's VG and not least to Mr Kleppa's statement in Dagbladet that the Government needs to step up its poverty response. It is no wonder, because the Minister of Finance declared on 5 June in Dagbladet that the Government did not achieve its own objectives in the fight against poverty. I have to ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs whether she can confirm or cancel the Minister of Finance's confession that the Government's poverty target is not being met.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e473	I can confirm that, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has the ambition to eradicate poverty. I can also confirm that the Regering now, half-way in its period, everything has taken important steps, for example. in order to secure much more work and to secure the municipalities 21 billion kroner more firmly – and in addition 8 billion dollars in additional tax revenue that they retained. No one who knows Kommune-Noreg, no one who knows how difficult it is, will be in doubt that there are two superfluous important grips just to give the opportunity to follow up the individual more difficult. There's also $3 billion in this year's budget that's being spent on the housing market, and we're going to follow our commitment further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e480	I would first like to take the opportunity to congratulate the State Council of Kleppa on an important post – a new and important post for the Municipal Committee. I also want to take the news from today's news that the government in the last budget turn had found that it would take 500 million. kr from housing support schemes to avoid increased parental payment in kindergartens. Since the draft budget is published tomorrow, I have a great deal of understanding that the municipal minister cannot comment on that leakage – whether it is correct or not. Therefore, I would rather ask in general and without reference to the leakage: what does the Minister of State think has the most targeted effect in terms of eradicating poverty — generally low parental benefit in kindergartens or continuing to improve the housing support system set in motion by the previous government? I know the Council would like to say yes, thank you, both. But what does she think has the greatest effect of these two measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e487	I am glad that I understand that I am neither commenting on the budget that comes tomorrow nor on the internal budgetary process of the Government. But let me say that I have rarely seen a newspaper article that contains as many errors as the representative Tørersdal pointed out. To the question is probably my first thought: yes, thank you, both. It is also because the Government has given a clear promise when it comes to parental payments in kindergartens and when it comes to kindergartens, and has promised to ensure a better situation for people with difficulty in the housing market. We have difor e.g. a total of NOK 10 000 in the bus fee for people in the largest urban areas, and we continue our work on both of these fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e494	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e498	In the 2005 Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that the northern regions are Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. The reason for this is that the north has gone from being a security policy area to being a very large energy policy area. The government writes, among other things: ‘The preservation of Norwegian economic, environmental and security interests in the north shall be a high priority and shall be seen in a close context.’ In retrospect, it may be difficult to see that the Government has achieved its objectives in the North. Although the Government has granted a larger amount to the Coast Guard, operational operations with the Coast Guard have not significantly increased. With today's Coast Guard, Norway is unable to assert its sovereignty in the north. We saw that in the "Elektron" case a few years ago. The northern area is so large that with today's coastguard, we have no opportunity to monitor everything that's happening in this area. Our new frigates will not be operational until 2011. Whether the budgets of the coming years are large enough to fill these frigates is probably the big question. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the North Region bet is very low. In Finnmark, where the need for both air and water-related defence is greatest, the government has done little or nothing at all. On the basis of all the leakage from the Defense Study 07 this autumn, it may seem that there is no North Government desire to strengthen. All the attention is focused on Bodø. The defence's joint operating headquarters on Jåttå has been proposed to move to the Bodø area. This proposal works for two reasons of little thought. The first is that the defense has spent between 600 and 1,000 million. On Yåttå. Most of this investment can hardly be recovered if Retan becomes the Defence Joint Operational Headquarters in the future. Furthermore, and perhaps most importantly, NATO’s Joint Warfare Centre, which is now with the FOHK on Jåttå, is likely to be moved from Norway. Furthermore, it's probably in the cards that Bodø becomes one of the main airports for our fighter aircraft. In his annual speech in Oslo Military Society in November 2006, Chief of Defense Sverre Dien took up the lines of development of Defence. He pointed to the big gap that exists between the goal adopted by the Stortinget and the annual defence budget – an amount that the Swedish Defence Research Institute has estimated at DKK 3 to 4 billion a year. This pointed to developments and said that this gap between objectives and budget is not closed, there will be no defence in Norway in 15–20 years. It is very serious, and it is hoped that the government will take this professional military statement seriously. «Long-termity» is a concept which is difficult to claim to be in force in the Defence. Part of the blame probably rests both on previous governments and on the sitting government. My claim of lack of long-termity is best presented with a few examples: In the process of conversion from a mobilization defense, 2 000 officers in the Army became eloquent. Today, the Army has to provide 1000 new officers in two years to meet the needs.The marine defense has ordered six new MTBs in the Shield class at a cost of approximately EUR 10 million. 5 billion kroner, an investment that the marines fully defend in relation to their needs in the north. According to the leaks from the Defence Study 07, it is proposed that these six new MTBs be disposed of, probably because the Defence Manager does not see the possibility to cover the operating costs. The conclusion regarding the future of the defence is clearly in the final decision on the roll-out in 2008. This Decision will be based on the Defence Study 07 and the study from the wide-ranging Defence Commission, which will be submitted with its parallel notification in November 2007. The Progress Party believes that the Defence Force should be able to carry out all its assigned objectives in the North, carry out mandated defence tasks in Norway and participate in ever-increasing international operations, the defence budgets need to be significantly increased. If they are to be able to develop a defence in line with the aim of the Storting, predictability and long-termity must be created with sufficient annual budgets. Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, has the means to safeguard its interests with a good defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e530	Norway shall be an environmental nation, referred to in the beginning of the year’s speech. It's a great ambition, and it's a real ambition. As a major representative, a member of the Energy and Environment Committee of Stortinget and head of the Environment and Natural Resources Committee of the Nordic Council, I have been given the opportunity to work on environmental issues in my own country and internationally, and I have used many opportunities to see the effects of climate change on the environment and nature both outdoors and at home. We, and the world, face greater challenges than we've ever faced. The reality is obvious. I have led an international environmental work around, among other things, Baltic over-fertilisation. The Baltic Sea is a large and important sea area, but the state of the environment can best be compared with the state of Mjøsa when it was in the worst. This is due mainly to emissions from land, agriculture and sewerage but also to airborne pollution. Ice melting in summertime increases dangerously, and measurement of melting water from the ice at a location on the north-west coast of Greenland shows a tripling over the past ten years. I've been there, and I've seen this. Glaciers in Alaska in North America melt at a speed we haven't seen before, and the members of the Energy and Environment Committee saw it when we were in Alaska last week. The Brearm of Briksdalsbreen is shrinking. The impact of climate change in Norway is clear, inter alia: through this example. According to very well documented reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, climate change is due to the effects of human activity such as increased energy consumption and thus increased CO2 emissions, increasing the population and increasing gross domestic product in many of the world’s countries. What's up? The solution must be found globally by the global community being united and each country willing to enter into binding climate agreements that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and that contribute to the sustainable exploitation of natural resources. Prime Minister Stoltenberg has confirmed today that we need to take our commitments in Norway, including: by reversing previously adopted targets, from increasing our emissions compared to 1990 to severe reductions. By 2020, the Government has set the target of a reduction of 30 pst, and 100 pst. reduction by 2050. If we want to achieve these numbers earlier, it's very happy. What will this require of us? That will require political will. Yeah, we'd have to do this. It will require technology development and use. It'll take money. In the Stern report we can read that it will cost many times more not to do anything. It requires some of us as individuals in the form of more environmentally friendly choices in our consumption pattern. More specifically, this means, among other things. exploiting the mechanisms of the Kyoto Agreement and our commitment to the EU's quota system, so that we contribute in an efficient, economic way to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the world, that we are putting a great deal of money on new renewable energy, inter alia. through our tool, Enovaat, we put up with instruments that get more of the freight across the road at sea, that we put on biofuels that, through new building regulations, we put up to lower energy use and more environmentally friendly energy use, that we follow up the government’s commitment to the railways that the tax ecosystem is being set up to give us more environmentally friendly solutions in e.g. choice of car, etc. The problems we see are created by people. Then, too, humans can solve them. Another major challenge is the energy balance in Norway, not least in Central Norway. We are now in a situation where we produce less power than we consume. In central Norway, the situation is such that even in a normal river basin we may be at risk of not being able to supply existing industry and households with enough power due to insufficient power generation and a line network that does not have the capacity to introduce the necessary amounts of power into the region. Norway is divided into price ranges that could give an unwarranted price of power in central Norway if we were to get into a scarcity situation. This can affect industry as well as other consumption. This obviously requires maximum pressure on energy efficiency improvement and no waste, but it also requires two other things: more power generation and better capacity on the transmission system. To achieve this, clear political decisions are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e582	The left has been the environmental party in Norwegian policy since the beginning of the 1970s. Environmental policy remains at the top of our agenda, and it is more important than ever that more parties join, not only in words, but also in action. The transport sector, according to the Low Emissions Committee, accounts for approx. 30 pst. of our greenhouse gas emissions. That is why this sector must also take a great deal of responsibility. At the same time, the transport sector is the lifeblood of our society. Without transport, the value creation and people's opportunities to meet stop. Therefore, the answer in some places is better and safer roads and elsewhere environmentally friendly rail transport. One of the major challenges we face in the transport sector today is congestion and urban congestion. These are areas where the way is not the answer. It is simply not possible to build itself out of the queue problems. If we are to be able to solve the congestion problems in cities and the resulting environmental pressures, public transport efforts in urban areas must be stepped up. This is also good district policy. The economy in the districts loses a great deal of money every year because the transport of goods is in line with the big cities. A recently submitted study shows an extra cost to society of a total of DKK 5 billion a year for Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. The main problems relate to accessibility and the environment. Together with increased public transport investment, increased rail investment is also important for freight transport. In the government, the Left heavily invested in the development of public transport in and into the big cities. Railways and public transport will also be important areas of activity for the Left in the future. But we have great challenges. In the eastern part of the country, we have experienced delays and adjustments in large parts of train traffic several times this year. This is frustrating for people, and the consequence is falling trust in the railway as a reliable means of transport. The NSB and the Railway Agency must be well rusted if we are to succeed in strengthening the competitiveness of the railway. If we are to get the most environment for the money again, we need a forward-looking organization of these two state companies. The left is concerned about this, as the red-green government in its Soria Moria declaration has stated that there will be no further railway conversions. This is a bad starting point for a State Council if she wants to show power of action to the NSB and the Railway Agency. The experience we have in the railways suggests that we do each other good through competition. The Gjøvik Railway is a good example, where the bid made by the previous government gave 40 pst. multiple take-offs and very positive traffic growth. I can quote what Group Chief Einar Enger of the NSB said to the News Agency of the News Agency in 2004: ‘I believe in competition – and the threat of competition. Contest launching and tenders are a given condition which has come to be. It is healthy for the NSB to get caught up in competition.’ Taking a protective position for the railway, as the sitting government with SV and the Workers' Party at the head has done, weakens the railway's position as a means of transport. Following the invitation to tender of Gjøvikbanen, the Left wanted to continue this success, and the current sections were Bergensbanen and Sørlandsbanen. Unfortunately, we didn't get that far. Finally, I am convinced of people's willingness to contribute to the environment by traveling collectively. Then it is up to us politicians to facilitate that this can be done! The left will be a driver and guardian.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e606	The red-green government is tough in foreign policy, and we deliver our promises. We sent the officers home from Iraq, we are betting in the north, we are conducting a more offensive European policy, we are stepping up the aid budget, we are setting the Millennium Goals first, we are leading the process of finding new global sources of funding and working on an international ban on class bombs, and we are eradicating unindebtedness. We have a government that is dry and that is seen in foreign policy, even beyond the borders of Norway. When the Americans decided to put a man on the moon, they just did. When the superpowers rusted up militarily during the cold war, only the money needed to do it was obtained. If our generation doesn't eradicate poverty in the world, it's not because we can't, but it's because we don't want enough. We have the knowledge that's needed, and we have the money that's needed to meet the Millennium Goals. The question is whether we and the world have the will. We're a long way from achieving those goals. Africa in particular is following. Here an effort is needed. The government has also increased our focus on Africa. The continent is very rich in natural resources, biological and cultural diversity. Despite this, large parts of the continent are struggling with poverty problems and do not achieve development due to internal conflicts, corruption and human rights violations. A few weeks ago, the Government presented an action plan for a more comprehensive African policy. We aim to strengthen political cooperation with African countries. Africa is changing, and the continent is becoming an increasingly important international player – political and economic. Stronger influence in the UN and in the international financial institutions is a prerequisite for Africa itself to shape its own development. The African countries are important in the UN, and we will help support the development of strong joint African institutions and also cooperation between African countries. Peace, democracy, social development and the environment are closely linked. Without one, you can't achieve the other three. We need peace in order to achieve social development, and social development is necessary for stable and lasting peace. When the natural resources are scarce, conflicts are created. When climate change destroys people's livelihoods, increasing poverty is the result. Natural resources may as well be a curse for a country's population, which has been an enrichment for us here at home, in the form of oil. Just look at the rich biodiversity, raw materials and natural resources of many African countries. African countries are major producers of oil, gas, diamonds, fish, metals and other raw materials that are important in the world economy. There is also the reason why the continent has been the subject of a resource race from around the world. We see this clearly today with China's increased involvement in this continent. In their eagerness to obtain resources, the Chinese invest in infrastructure across large parts of the continent. The problem is that the Chinese themselves are building the roads and the buildings, instead of the Africans being set to do the jobs. The problem is also that the Chinese are not very concerned about demanding democratic regimes, anti-corruption and respect for human rights where they choose to invest. But the world’s increased demand for raw materials is leading to higher economic growth in many African countries. The problem is that this growth does not benefit the majority of the population. Ta Angola: Angola is a rich country as a result of oil. At the same time, 70 pst. by the population below the poverty line. Corruption is enormous, and oil revenue is increasing and increasing. Without better management of these revenues, we will also not see cohesion and fewer poor people in Angola. Ordinary assistance from Norway is not the solution for Angola's poorest. However, Norway has experience in managing natural resources that we can share with, for example: Angola in terms of oil resources, or Namibia in terms of building up sustainable fisheries management in a country with such huge fishing resources. Transferring knowledge of management is perhaps the most important thing we can do for some of these African countries, by helping to ensure that their income goes towards reducing poverty. Africa itself is primarily responsible for promoting social and economic development, but the world's richest country has a responsibility to contribute to what we can contribute. Of course, this applies directly to the poorest, but it is also about other things. It is about political partnership, and therefore it is important and in line with the fact that we are betting on Africa, that the Government is now pursuing a broad and comprehensive foreign policy towards Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e632	The behaviour of the junta in Burma arouses disgust at all of us. We feel with the people and the brave monks who have dared to stand up against one of the world's most brutal regimes. We are horrified by the inability of the UN Security Council to find a way out of the devastation, and we are looking for ways to remedy the acute situation. We will, along with the rest of political Norway, be involved in all measures that may have an impact on this unsustainable situation. Many people in Burma now fear for their lives and try to get out of the country. Thailand is already under heavy pressure, with a large number of Burmese refugees. The Progress Party is therefore promoting a proposal in today’s debate on the need for Norwegian authorities to take initiatives to help, for example. Thailand to deal with the refugee flows that can now come from Burma. We must ensure at all costs that no one is forced to return. The Finnish Foreign Minister would say what is Finland's biggest security policy challenge, and he responded in a good Martin Kolberg style: Russia, Russia, Russia. In Norway, our chief of defense has told us what it is: Russia’s search for energy and fish can challenge Norway. NATO looks in different directions and won't necessarily be of great help. We have to do the job ourselves. These are the new geopolitical realities in the Nordic region. Our biggest neighbor in the east thrives in many fields. After a painful transition period in the 1990s, most indicators point up and self-confidence is high. Russia is making a difference, and we're going to deal with it. As a gateway to the Arctic Ocean, we have a strategically important area. So we can't close our eyes and wish for another reality. We can't do like the United States and Bush and let our relationship with Russia be based on wrong assumptions. Just see how Russia manages to humiliate the United States on a case-by-case basis. We will meet the challenges, not threatening, but with sufficient clarity, activity and predictability in our vital areas. We must not make Russia a threat. It's a challenge, but not necessarily something that should make us tremble in our pants. Managed correctly and strategically, Russia will be a partner, both in the north and elsewhere. In order to achieve this, a broad Norwegian effort is needed to establish relevant cooperation projects, but cooperation in some areas and clarity in other areas is not contradictory – on the contrary. We're going to say clearly whether conditions we don't like in Russian society, while recognizing the efforts Russia is now making to get up under Putin's leadership. Our geographic destiny community can be exploited for both, but then we have to be rusted at a level that makes us relevant. Recognition of Norway’s challenges is important, as well as the ability and willingness to address them. In our opinion, this requires a focused foreign policy that is able to prioritise and put the main interests first. There is no doubt that it is very interesting to deal with the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the big world. But we have to dare to challenge ourselves whether we do what is most necessary, and whether it's right to engage as wide as we actually do. Here, Norwegian foreign policy differs from that of our neighbouring country. There is nothing wrong with Norwegian self-image as a great nation of peace, this is constantly highlighted and has become a separate field of activity. Nevertheless, there is a long way between the victories of this demanding diplomacy. No Norwegian peace diplomats are to be accused of a lack of peace now, but it must be allowed to question this enormous effort in Norway as a peace nation, a lack of results and the need to focus on demanding tasks in our neighbourhoods. Nor can Norway be allowed to dominate other and less central tasks for Norway. These questions and several other important issues related to the provision of Norwegian foreign policy are looking forward to future discussions, and we expect that the planned growth announcement of Norway's place in the world will give us such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e647	While the opposition turns to itself and argues about who to control, what positions they want, etc., we are most concerned about making everyday life better for people. The government's vision is to create the world's most inclusive community. It's a beautiful vision, perhaps one of the most beautiful governments ever had. What is the opposition's project, except that they want taboos? Yesterday, the Municipal Committee visited the Municipal Pension Fund, KLP. There we were impressed by how they were doing their business. In a landscape where there is a great deal of focus on money and earnings, they also have the ability to have a strong focus on social responsibility. They disprove the individual economists claim that there is a contradiction between making money and taking social responsibility. I will try in this article to sketch some principles that I think we can govern to reach the Government's vision of becoming the world's most inclusive society. And then I have allowed myself to steal a little from the KLP strategy. First of all, it's important to set up some "road signs" that we can control by, we can call it behavioral values. Our behavioural values can be: open, clear and responsible. We're going to be open to the great diversity we have here in the country. Norway is a young immigration nation. That is why, unfortunately, the debate continues to be marked by the question of whether or not we should have immigration. The Labour Party clearly says yes to immigration, because we believe it makes Norway a better society. But then we have to be open to the changes that result. That means that each of us has to work with our attitudes and show tolerance. We need to be clear. Those who seek our protection will have their application assessed according to the need for protection. Those in need of protection will get it. Those who do not have the same need must respect the rejection and go home. We shall not impose any stricter or easier requirements on our new compatriots than those we impose on other Nordics. All shall be treated equally. All residents have to choose who they want to marry. Transparency is also about that we must be unmerciful in our defense of those who are being forced into marriage. We have to be responsible. Norway has a small population. Immigration must be balanced, and we must ensure that everyone who comes here has good opportunities to succeed in our society. In addition to the behavioral values, we should also have a set of instruments. Firstly, in my view, there is a need for a national debate on the fundamental values on which we want society to build, values that everyone can join and with which we should never go on chords. Tolerance is also about being clear which attitudes we do not accept. We must work hard on racism and discrimination, and at the same time build on and support the attitudes that create a warmer society. Active substance No one is therefore clear. In business, there is a lot of talk about active ownership. I want us to focus on active coexistence in this context. Everyone who lives together knows that it's about giving and getting, learning from each other and finding out things together. There is a great deal of focus on minorities having to adapt to the society they live in, but the majority must also show the willingness to adapt to the minorities. Active substance No two are thus active cohabitation. The third instrument is strategic investment. We need to invest in people. People know a greater degree of belonging if they feel valued and that they need it. Many carry a heavy baggage emotionally, and language difficulties can make it difficult to participate in society. The government already has a lot of instruments in this regard, and more are to come. A good public school and the pediatric policy of the Government are prerequisites for success in the integration work. This, in turn, will allow more people to participate in social and work life. Work is again a key to getting out of poverty and for people to choose their own lives. These are good and profitable investments. Not only does the government have a beautiful vision, I have now tried to say something about how I think we can get there. In its policy, the government already has many tools in place. And most importantly, we have a strong willingness to achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e670	The debate today has confirmed the self-satisfaction that has subsided over government and red-green representatives. In turn, it has been stressed from this pulpit that large tasks are now being solved by large sums of money. But this is not entirely true. The police do not have the resources needed to ensure an equally good service anywhere. In fact, Norway is today getting an A and a B police, where the urban population is getting a higher quality police service than the people living in the districts. Few staff resources have forced vigilance cooperation in more and more districts, with hours spent in the event of serious accidents or serious crime. Because it doesn't move out to anything anymore. The threshold of call-outs in the evening, night and weekends is increasing to avoid paralysing the regular daily services in the districts of the county. What happened in the wake of the death accident in Øksnes, Northern Ireland, where the police guard sat in the neighbouring municipality and spent almost two hours before you were at the scene of the accident, is unacceptable – and would have been totally unimaginable in a city. I'm not exaggerating. I have visited several mariners at home in Troms this fall. They share the concerns of many colleagues about developments in which budgets and police capacity are consumed by new working time regulations. At the same time, applicants are exposed to drying for job vacancies in many districts. The public admits that this goes beyond the service of the public. Several have also pointed out and deplored the fact that prevention among children and young people has unfortunately to become a balancing position when time and staff do not go by. Criminal cases at the office desk must be given priority, and if there is no more time, then there is no more time. Many now suggest that the introduction of new biometric passports will mean even less public service because the passport issue is centralised to fewer places. The red-green government says that it is concerned that it should be as attractive to live in the districts as in more urban areas. The negative developments in the police are more likely to scare people away from there, and at least do not help to substantiate the claim that it is no matter where you live in relation to what kind of public services you should be demanding. It is almost remarkable how uninterested and little-occupied the Minister of Justice seems to be the development of the police. I have challenged him on several occasions without getting any specific answer. The right's proposal to strengthen the police budget is further met with slogans and rhetoric that this government has granted more than the previous government. Governments are not willing to take on board the fact that both crime trends and new working time regulations require more police. On the right, the Government has challenged on a broad basis in terms of a more active senior policy and simplification and efficiency in the public sector for better use of resources. An active senior police policy in which experienced police officers are encouraged to stand longer in their jobs is important in a situation where police officers need more. Measures such as electronic notification and civilians to solve non-political tasks are also better ways of exploiting scarce police resources. The right has programmed a police escalation plan. That is why we are positive and have considerable expectations of the staffing project that is now under way in the Ministry of Justice. I hope that the work has a significant pace in it. We also have significant expectations for police action in the budget to be presented tomorrow. Of course, it is good that the Minister of Justice is busy removing the prison queue. That the effort there now gives results, we see that, and that's excellent. But I wish that the Minister of Justice was now equally concerned with the police's ability to solve their tasks. It is unlikely to be expected that the police will be able to address the fight against serious recriminalism, child abuse via the Internet, trafficking in human beings, organised East-European profit criminals, solve more rape cases and combat domestic violence, unless there is a significant increase in the police budget at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e693	The Storting has been presented with a throne speech that tells of great activity and a high pace from the Government. Previous talk about self-satisfaction, but I also experience great satisfaction in our country that we have got a better community economy and much more that today's government has done. I understand that there may be some impatience on the part of our citizens after the Soria Moria statement has been fulfilled, but this is happening on a case-by-case basis and at a high pace. I refer to all the important measures that have been taken in the last two years, and I believe that all this testifies to the power of action of the Government. In this situation, the opposition does not appear to be united, clear and strong – something that today’s debate has also shown to be complete. That's why I feel sure that people around the country will realize more and more that we know what we have and what political line is on the ground, while it's completely impossible to see what we can get if today's opposition would win at the next crossroads. We have a government that takes care of the community and that exercises action and long-term planning. That's what we need in time as well. As a resident of the northernmost part of the country, I am particularly pleased that the northern regions are so central to the government's policy, and that this is referred to as Norway's main strategic focus in the coming years. No government has previously been so clear about the importance of the northern regions. The government is working on several concrete and important issues in this context, including: in knowledge, resource management, environmental protection, climate and industrial development. I think the opposition parties should look at this long-term and important work in the north areas with positive eyes and to a lesser extent talk about everything else that should have been done. This is a long-term work to be done and which is not only to be done by the input method. I would like to say it so strongly that with today's Northern Norway policy, North Norway has got a new give and good prospects. That is why I hope for a good cooperation here in Stortinget to further develop the northern regions according to the strategies that the Government has put forward. The government is making an important effort to make allies and other related countries better aware of the specific challenges facing us in the years ahead in the north. Increased allied training activity in Norway, especially in the north, is referred to in this context as an important measure. I agree with this, of course, and I am pleased that the significance of the defence is so much in the throne and in the work of the Government. This is also a follow-up to the government's clear wording in the Soria-Moria Declaration, where it is among other things. to strengthen the presence and sovereignty of the defence in the north, including the defence’s contribution to good preparedness for environmental crises and the capacity of the Coast Guard for resource control and preparedness. The defence's long-term plan will soon be dealt with by the Government and the Government, and it is reassuring that we have such a clear starting point for this work by the Government. I have here taken up a small part of all the work that is now being done by the Government. We have a government that works purposefully, and that is predictable. This clearly demonstrates the importance of action and the importance of a majority government in these times. Today's majority government is actively working and fulfilling what has been promised to the voters. In my opinion, there are no real alternatives to today's majority government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e721	We as society are facing major challenges. Poverty and climate change require a change in the nature of policy. Policies must be of a long-term nature, and policy solutions and debates cannot focus on short-term objectives. What we do today, we're measured on tomorrow. A strong and comprehensive welfare state is the only way we can guarantee human freedom and the ability to realize their lives. That's the basis for justice. We must succeed in creating a school and a educational and research community that gives everyone equal opportunities to succeed, which enables people to develop new ideas and discoveries. It is a condition for success in the transition from an oil-black commodity economy to a green knowledge society. I am proud that the minister of knowledge in the government has dared to take the issue of school dropout seriously. Too many students fall from high school. This is serious. It's about life, the dreams and the future of young people being thrown to the ground. The reason for the dropout often starts much earlier. That's why it's important to be early — give your children help before they need it. Still, the school results follow a social background, and we see that the school has failed to balance social differences. The Minister of Knowledge and the Government shall have the honour of taking seriously, unlike their predecessors, the structural obstacles to a fair society. Today, a number of big business representatives have turned up loud and said that the only thing that this government does is to come up with big business messages, not action. This is completely wrong and directly arrogant. This government comes with big messages to alert and to take action to design a policy and give a new direction. In the headlines on school and social cohesion, we find many concrete proposals. Several of them were already implemented in the revised national budget, and we have every reason to have expectations of the budget coming tomorrow. It's simply not true that the government is just talking. It's acting. The government is implementing its objectives and visions to facilitate a school that prevents poverty and is based on knowledge and learning for all. The government ensures kindergarten for everyone for a reasonable amount of money and of high quality. We have introduced free core time in some areas where this is important. The government strengthens the hours in school from the fall, because we need more time to teach the students what they're going to learn. We need a school where play and learning are viewed together. Of course, students have to learn at school, but these are the kids we're talking about. They're supposed to chew the important things. They'll learn to read and write. They're going to learn how to calculate. But there are kids going to school, the approach to knowledge also has to be play, and it has to be a practical approach. The government has facilitated more teachers in school by increasing the municipal budgets. The municipalities have not followed this up to a large enough extent, and SV will do everything to ensure that more teachers come out of school. We need to strengthen the counselling service and stimulate the recruitment of more teachers in school. We have discovered how a reinforced counselling service will reduce school dropout. We've discovered how more teachers in school are learning better. Our research and empirical findings and ambitions stand in stark opposition to the right-wing parties, which used the entire previous magnification period to deny the truth about the relationship between results and resource use. Knowledge is a product of good learning. A debate on knowledge in school is inconclusive if you do not instead discuss learning as a prerequisite for knowledge. Such learning is conditioned by competent interpersonal, social and culturally competent teachers, who are able to stimulate the learning needs and objectives of each child. That's why it's very important for this government, and this government has spent SEK 1.4 billion on strengthening the school and continuing training of teachers only in 2007. Norwegian business is behind the form in relation to the research effort Stortinget expects from its businesses. This Government, unlike its predecessors, is pursuing an active ownership policy in state companies. And I expect these are now strengthening their research efforts. The government has strengthened the Research Fund, with a strength and at a pace that lacks parallel in Norwegian history. The fact that a certain proportion of society’s research resources go to specific topical and urgent purposes is positive — especially for environmental and climate research. At the same time, there should be no doubt that our long-term objectives will be to strengthen universities and colleges as our primary research institutions. The government has made a massive effort for the green knowledge society of the future. This work will continue for many years to come. The continued strengthening of the education sector from kindergarten to university is a prerequisite for continued positive social development. I am convinced that this year's budget will show that the government continues to prepare Norway on the day the last oil barrel was sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e747	This year's census was a very positive speech, where we learned that many and important things are coming to Stortinget during the autumn of 2007 and the spring of 2008. For my part, I would like to talk about the educational and research policy issues, which are happily becoming one of the priority areas in this four-year period as well. Now in our treatment we treat St.meld. No 16, where a number of measures were outlined to improve social cohesion in school, as was the case with the representative Lena Jensen. The next harvest will be the school week for the 1st to 4th class steps extended by five hours. It's an important step towards just equalizing social differences. Extension of school days will provide opportunities to organise school days differently, with room for physical activity, homework and more time for subjects such as math, Norwegian and English. This, combined with a strong improvement in the local economy, provides opportunities to hire more teachers, and it will once again help us get a better school for everyone. Also, the means of developing the skills of teachers in the context of the Knowledge Commitment and the development of teacher training at our colleges will help, I think, us getting a school where the students receive adapted education that makes each student less dependent on their social background in order to be able to perform well in school. The introduction of free schoolbooks in secondary schools, which started now in the fall, is also a good measure to balance the differences. At all, I think there are many things that are happening in school now, which make me optimistic about our children's ability to succeed in school, regardless of social background. It also shows very clearly the willingness of the red-green majority to bet on the community instead of tax havens for the richest. I also want to express satisfaction with this government's willingness to use the whole country. In research and development, there are several impacts, not least through an offensive North Sea initiative, where research is an important factor. I also look forward to setting up centres of excellence for district development and regional research funds that will stimulate the development of business and society throughout the country. This, combined with the work of the Research Council in cooperation with all municipalities on their own research programme on R & D and innovation instruments, provides good grounds for optimism for growth and development across the country. When we hear the opposition trying to make it look like we're not betting on research, it's wrong. For the current year, research funds are increasing and the Research Fund is strengthened. In the coming period, we will have more discussions on higher education and research through a call for proposals for evaluation of the implementation of the quality reform in higher education and through a call for proposals for research recruitment. Not least, the latter is very important in view of the future. We don't achieve our objectives in the research sector by just granting money, even if we do. We need to know if it is possible to recruit researchers within the priority areas and how best to facilitate recruitment both within and outside the country's borders. We also have to be concerned about gender equality within the academy and take it into account when we make our recruitment plans. I am delighted to be involved in the work that will now take place in the coming year. It will help shape one of the most important arenas for the development of our society in the future. I am pleased with the policy we are now pursuing in this country. It greatly strengthens the community and our ability to create, so that we have something to share. I think we're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e762	One of the hottest themes in the autumn election campaign, the rush time tax, revealed the government's lack of action and at the same time great paradoxes in today's transport policy. Right-wing agree that we need to take climate change seriously. We agree that one can't just build roads, if one is going to solve traffic problems around the big cities. We agree that a strong strengthening of public transport is necessary. But we're against the idea that one should solve these challenges by imposing a drug-free charge, a charge that would be the most costly for those who have the least. One of the paradoxes was made clear: while the red-green national politicians paid a rush-time fee, we once again experienced a complete chaos in the flagship of public transport, or what should have been the flagship, the railway. One thing was worn out signalling systems and for poorly maintained railway, another and totally unexpected thing was the lack of drivers and conductors who were suddenly revealed in the middle of the election campaign. How can the rush-time enthusiasts in the government demand to be taken seriously, and expect drivers to take the train, when the reality is that when all the trains go, it is full, and when the trains are too often standing, or are severely delayed, are the trains that go, overfilled? It does not delay passengers' reoccurrence. Fortunately, the government came up with better ideas when it came to the reward scheme for public transport in big cities, but a completely different effort is needed to get the desired transition from private car to public transport. Instead of using whips on the drivers, the government should perhaps first start with a little self-scatcher to get money, infrastructure, materials and employees for a massive increase in the use of public transport. We have received signals of large cost exceedances that will hit already tame the plans for a movement effort. At the same time, the government is not able to change the system of how we build the infrastructure here in the country. If we had invested more in cooperation with private – OPS – and building infrastructure with concessions, we could have gotten more money. But the government has ideological skyscrapers that make most of it go into the same district, especially after it announced the big deal with project finance was canceled by the Ministry of Finance after one year. The EU has now decided that there will be more rail competition, but here in Norway, Gjøvikbanen is the only point of light when we look at passenger traffic. The Bondevik II Board of Directors opened for competition. The users got a much better offer and 40 pst. multiple take-offs on the purchase. The right has proposed postponing competition, for example: The Kingswing Railway. That might have been a good idea! We must dare to bet visionarily on the railways in Norway. One year after the Right launched its proposal on the South Norwegian high-speed ring, we can see that the rail debate is alive and flourishing. The high-speed ring was well received here in Stortinget, and a broad majority asked for further investigation. Therefore, expectations are high for the studies currently being carried out by the Railway Agency. The right is expecting an offensive investigation. Six million passengers fly between the cities of South Norway within this high-speed ring. In an environmental and climate perspective, it would be amazing if most of these had chosen trains instead of planes. With modern trains, energy consumption can be significantly reduced even if one increases speed. And when the head of the Railway Agency's environmental section can also inform and guarantee that the railways in Norway are now using only renewable energy without CO2 emissions, few would argue that the development of modern high-speed rail in Norway would involve a transport and environmental revolution. While the high-speed rail system is being discussed with great commitment, unfortunately, today's rail network continues to reveal its faults and shortcomings. Signal faults, earth defects and other events cause irritation, delays and negative media lookups. In addition, when the NSB struggles with the lack of drivers with subsequent settings, it dries on the loyalty of people to the railway as a means of transport. In addition, we are experiencing a massive growth in freight traffic on the road. A positive development that paradoxically is about to stop due to the lack of crossing tracks. Right we think we need to have three thoughts in our head at once. The high-speed trains shall compete with aeroplanes, local and regional trains shall compete with the passenger car and freight trains with trailers and lorries. That is why we have now put forward a proposal in Stortinget on an overall plan for new crossing tracks. Upgrading of today's rail system is essential if the positive trend in goods is to continue. At the same time, important bottlenecks in passenger traffic need to be removed and work on high-speed trains intensified. Right will invest in the future. We will bet on a modern infrastructure. Then we have to raise our eyes, think new, remove ideological skyscrapers and bet on competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e792	Many today have said that we live in the best country in the world. We live in a welfare society. It's enough that most people agree with that. But that doesn't mean we can relax, lean back and try to surf the good times. It's probably the case that it's just now that we have to focus on those in society who don't recognize being part of or benefit from living in the world's best country or living in the good welfare community. That's why, fortunately, we're always working to make more people feel better, and so we have to be self-critical. In our description of society, however, we have to make it clear that there is a difference between well-being and prosperity. In some contexts, I still think that some people mix these terms, because there's a difference in the sky. My task is more aimed at ensuring well-being than at creating more wealth. In some contexts, the Nordic model and its success are also drawn. The characteristics of the Nordic model are low unemployment, sustained high economic growth, high adaptability, high ability to take new technologies into use and efficient public services, and not least that we have good cooperation between the social partners. In this description, I think the key to our position in the top layer of the world lies. By recognizing this, and at the same time renewing this model, we can have a stable and predictable future. But we can't take it for granted. I think we have to stop and think a little bit and not least notice what we take as a matter of course. As others have said earlier today, we will obviously live on something, but also on something. And how do we lay the foundation for that? Let's imagine a district municipality, which is most of this country. What happens when you get up in the morning, like a cold winter day? Well, the first thing we do is we turn on the light. Usually this is hydropower, and we now know that over 90 pst. hydro produced is in public ownership. It is the public that, with great and forward-looking thinking, has developed this. Then we go to the bathroom, pull a string, and who's the one standing at the other end and make sure everything gets where it's going? It's public. We wash ourselves in perhaps one of the cleanest waters in the world, which is municipal. Then we make ourselves lunch and eat food with the kids and plan a part of the day. On the way out into the garage, we take the boss. We are driving on a finished broken road – carried out by order from the municipality and would also like to be done by municipal employees. Then we drive one kid in kindergarten, the other to high school. You tell the oldest that he must not forget to go to the dentist during the day – it is municipal. On the way home, you pick up the kids. Of course, you're still driving on the broken road. The estate is then emptied – by the municipality. When you get in, you go to the bathroom again. Everything works, clean water both here and there. During dinner you ask the woman how it went on pregnancy control – carried out by a municipal midwife. The rest of the afternoon is scheduled. One has to go swimming in the cultural house, which is municipal. The other will go to the library, also to the municipal. You think that while the kids are there, you'll go visit your sister who is disabled and lives in organized housing, which is municipal. When evening is finally there, you think you have to iron shirts, because you're going to be buried to an old acquaintance. Who's there? Well, that's the municipality. From cradle to grave, society and the welfare community make life go its way. But is this a matter of course? Yeah, maybe most people will say. I was the rapporteur for six years and I can certainly say that everything is not a matter of course. The economy is swinging. In the six years I was rapporteur, savings were the word I used most. We were tricked into thinking that we should have more left for the money, more for each of the heads. Competitive participation was to fill the whole life, all day in response to everything. For everything in the world, we were not to be in the ROBEK register – the blacklist. That's why we cut. We cut cultural offers and resources for school. We did not employ new people on leave, etc. We won – we didn't get into the ROBEK register. In addition, we won the election in 2005. Now the municipality got more money. Of course, the business cycle has helped, but there is no doubt that the municipalities have received more money now than before. In two years, we're talking about billions of dollars. Well-being is actually complex and fragmented, but as a whole it's important. It's important that we see both the fragments and the whole. Good welfare creates room for having a lot to live for. It creates room for development and quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e821	Tomorrow, the government will present next year's government budget. Organisations and numerous special interests expect exactly their interests and views to receive money. Every year, we experience that these spheres of interest are expanding. More and more people find their place as passive recipients of transfers and thus become dependent on the authorities. While government budgets in most other Western countries contain the major lines of government policy, the Norwegian government budget has evolved into the Christmas Eve of the Nordics. Everyone gets, and they don't get this year, they'll get to the next year for sure! This year’s centenarians offered that the Government will continue to present reforms that increase public consumption. Still new groups will be made clients, in the hope that new well-being crowns will bring new red-green choices to the next choice. The government calls this policy community, but the consequence of this annual session is that creativity, volunteering, creativity, and responsibility for one's own lives are confusing. While the government is constantly putting new records into welfare expenditure, it forgets to spend at the same time the big money, which the Prime Minister often likes to say, on what will create future well-being. The infrastructure is fading, and the institutions that are going to foster our future value creators are failing. This applies, inter alia, to: Our educational institutions and our transport network. This development is not sustainable. The combination of a weathering infrastructure, while more and more have public transfers as their main income, will make us increasingly dependent on transfers from the State pension fund to the operation of Norway. During a recent visit to the Finance Committee in England, we were presented with the British budgetary process. This was very interesting, and I hope the members of the committee listened carefully. In England, three-year budgets are provided, and consumption and investment are clearly distinguished. However, it is even more interesting that growth in public consumption must be significantly lower than GDP growth and that legislation does not allow loans to finance current expenditure. Furthermore, the British government has decided to cut 5 pst annually. in expenditure of general government. Norway obviously needs a similar reform, where we cannot avoid welfare services that we do not have a growth basis to defend. But then the airlock Soria Moria had collapsed completely. But unfortunately, Norway does not have legislation that provides incentives for saving in the public sector. If, on the other hand, there was a link between the possibility of using public funds for the welfare and growth of the economy, we would immediately have experienced demands for soberness and slimming in general government. Two days ago, the census also said nothing about the need to reduce the number of yearly jobs in general government, which could provide valuable labour in the private sector. It is just now that Norway had needed a visionary prime minister who had seen the enormous opportunities offered by today’s tight labour market – a prime minister who had dared to trade across the union’s narrow demands and who had focused on the long-term value creation in the country. That's now we have the opportunity to slim down the public bureaucracy, there's now superfluous labour will quickly be absorbed into private businesses, and that's now we would need a powerful government. But unfortunately we don't. After hearing the representative Sponheim from the pulpit today, I want to ask some timely questions. As usual, Sponheim spoke in capital letters, and the bottles and clichés sat loose. We heard about individuality, social responsibility, roughness, multicultural diversity, and the centre as a liberal power factor. The list was long, and not least it was pompous. But is there at all someone in this room who knows what Sponheim's national policy really is? Does Sponheim want lower taxes or higher taxes? Does the Left want continued growth in the public sector, or does the Party believe that this sector should be reduced? Does the party believe that the general level of penalties for offenders is too low or too high, or is it just right? Most people have found that the Left wants to reduce the form field for business. But why didn't party leader Sponheim do anything about this when he sat as Minister of Industry? Does Left think there is a need for more discipline in classrooms? Does the Left believe that the appropriations for defence should be increased or reduced, or is the Government's proposal of any level appropriate? Does the Left wish to increase or reduce the aid budget, or is the Government's proposal at any level appropriate? Does the Left wish to reduce the extraction of oil and gas on Norwegian soil for climate reasons? Or is revenue in the treasury more important than reducing climate change emissions? Does the Left want to make all narrow cultural expressions a public matter, or is there a limit for the Left? Finally, does the Left want no restriction on immigration to Norway, no matter what its consequences for the country? I understand who the Left is against, and what is the party for, but what does the Left really stand for political?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e863	Halfway through this period, we can state that the Government is delivering the Cultural Lift. 2008 shall be a year in which we create understanding and visibility of cultural diversity in Norway. This Government raises the status of culture as a social and political area. It's good for culture, it's good for politics, but it's good for us as a society first and foremost. Never have we seen such an offensive and powerful cultural effort as it is. In the cultural field, as in the other policy areas, we're going to follow what we've been told to do, and we're going to keep up the promises we've given. With this government, and with this great majority, Kultur-Noreg is experiencing good days. Kultur-Noreg has long wanted a cultural law. The last period they didn't get it, because today's opposition party was against it. Now we have adopted cultural laws. Cultural initiatives in municipalities and municipalities are larger than ever. Voluntary Norway wanted a better and easier interaction with the public through a voluntary register. Now we have adopted the voluntary register, which is to facilitate the daily lives of voluntary organisations. We are pursuing a policy that involves a new gift for volunteering across the country. Children’s and young people’s organisations wanted a easier financial everyday life and more time to operate. We facilitate the everyday life and improve the economy of the children's and youth organisations. And so it's in the area by area. We have made great and important promises, and we are successful in implementing the promise. As the King said, ‘The government is fulfilling the cultural promise.’ At a time when the vast majority of us are getting richer and richer, and most of us have more than ever -- and have problems, maybe, finding space for everything we have in our houses, in our cabins, in our cars and our boats -- there is a need to raise other values, do other priorities, and create something else that can give people good and meaningful lives. Culture does it. Culture has first and foremost a intrinsic value, whether it's the national ballet or it's the local sculpture. But it is no disadvantage that culture also contributes to community, ensuring inclusion and support for involvement and participation. With the cultural effort of the Workers' Party and the Government, new terms have been introduced in cultural life. Now it's about billions of bets that one used to talk about some tens of millions. Now there's no bet either on music, on theatre, in the voluntary sector or on film, now there's talk of bets in all areas of cultural life before a wide range of expressions, all of which can be enjoyed. More people are more likely to experience, more are more likely to engage, and more are more likely to participate. And that applies to everyone -- whether we're professionals or volunteers, whether it's local culture or national. I feel that several of the opposition parties are happy that we're in charge, happy that we're in charge, and happy that we're fulfilling the promise of raising the stake on culture. At least I haven't experienced anything coordinated and co-ordinated attack on the volunteer billion we come with, on the film bet that has now been significantly strengthened after she was cut in the previous period, or on the bet in the hundreds of trillions class that we do before the music field. I feel that a person now is satisfied that we can't do it himself or would give priority as he or she was responsible. At the same time, I feel that other parts of the opposition – and then the Progress Party, which previously speaks, is not much like the Cultural Lift, simply because they are against the public spending money on film, music, theater, dance, literature – or whatever it might be. In addition to the debate that one has between the opposition and the government party, I think we'll have an interesting debate between the opposition party in time to come. I assume that the Right and the Advance Party are still going to try to find together on the Civil side, even if they've messed up a little in the last few days. Then it's going to be interesting to see how deep it's going to be in the Culture-Right when the Progress Party is going to start saying the rage of the cultural offer to most people. It will be a good idea to follow up on whether there is a threat to market power leading cultural policy as well. In the Common Era, emphasis was placed on ‘natural resources of the country’. One of these resources is a diverse, creative and challenging cultural life. We're going to pursue a policy that facilitates this lack, which involves all those who want to participate and who value the developments that this gives us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e897	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e900	The Bondevik government carried out a silent revolution in state-owned companies. Consistently, directors and board members linked to the left-hand side of the policy were replaced for their own benefit. Social responsibility was replaced with the stock exchange. The share price was the result of one measure of success in the companies in which the State holds a holding. As a result, we have had directors and directors who seem to have been able to link the economic benefits of the managers to the development of share prices, of course, at the top of high management wages. Today we see the outcome of this policy. We've got a business life where business managers don't even look down when they pile their million incomes, mostly not as a result of good management and industrial effort, but mainly because of good times and rising commodity prices. In this way, the option agreements and the culture of greed in industry are the very symbol of the industrial policy of the right-hand party. For this reason, some directors and some managers are at the forefront of an extremely unfortunate development, which not only characterises large parts of business but also has an estimate of society. In the business press, the money movers and the stockbrokers are the heroes of the day, with annual incomes higher than the life income of a normal employee. This is how egoism is legitimized as a political direction. I am pleased that the Government is breaking this development, and that through the ownership message it has reintroduced social responsibility into the state's ownership. The task now will be to put together the boards of the companies owned by the State in full or in part, in order to comply with the objectives and principles of ownership notification. I also noticed that the Prime Minister, in the change of line with the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, today underlined the demand for ethics and morality, and that this is particularly great in the state's achievements. With the address of the ongoing investigation of the corruption suspicions in the merged StatoilHydro, which has culminated in the resignation of the director today, I would like to point out that the ownership message also imposes specific requirements on ethical management, transparency and transparency, precisely to prevent corruption. In that exact area, it's and it has to be zero tolerance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e911	Today’s debate on the throne has clearly shown that the centre of Norwegian policy is at its most up-to-date and central to the major challenges we face in tackling climate challenges, and in tackling poverty at home and abroad. For the Christian People's Party, central politics is about the will to build a living society from below – based on individuals, in families, local communities, organisations and businesses. At the same time, respect for human dignity, solidarity with the vulnerable and responsible for the environment unites us. We have had a strong value option in district policy, environmental policy, refugee policy, family policy and the fight for a fairer world – to mention something. Now is the time to look up and take a broad debate on the consequences of materialism, the culture of consumption and excessive market thinking. Focusing on central policy has been followed up in a good way by both the Left and the Centre parties through today's debate. Interestingly, we have had a debate on the central parties and a thoughtful government cooperation with the Progress Party. In my reply to the intervention of the parliamentary leader in the Advancement Party, I said that in many areas the policy of the Advancement Party stands miles away from the Christian People's Party. This applies, inter alia, to: in the field of aid, immigration, agriculture, culture and alcohol policy. These lines of division have emerged clearly in the debate. In addition, the Progress Party has a fundamental sense of reality about the links in economic policies that are totally in conflict with all other parties and what the financial markets, business and professional expertise in this area think are sensible economic policies. Although the rest of the world is convinced that it will have dramatic, negative consequences for competitive business all over the country, at least in the long term, the Progress Party spends money for all the good purposes of the world, while they will dramatically weaken taxes and taxes to the community. In this form of petroleum populism they are on collision courses with all, both the red-green, Christian People's Party and Center – and not least with the Right. It might be interesting to hear from the Progress Party how the party has thought in relation to any government cooperation on the non-socialist side. Will the controversial view of the Progress Party in this respect be used as a basis for government cooperation? It doesn't have to be said that you should start by talking about what you agree about, when the basis is so sophisticated economically. Of course, it is also interesting to hear what the Right believes about this. How much petroleum populism and subsequent pain for Norwegian industry are they prepared to accept in any future government cooperation with the Progress Party? Where does the limit of what is acceptable to the Right? It's basically a rather central question that more than the center parties might think we should get an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e924	The government has run around with precious promises that prove to be demanding to meet without increasing the tax burden. They have therefore chosen to break with the understanding that has been with the shipowners about the shipping tax. The breach means a tax return on shipowners not flagged in 1996. Those flagged will now become winners, while those who loyally chose to stay in Norway will be punished. With the Government’s proposals, they now receive a much higher tax – approx. three times as high as they would have been if they had opted for ordinary corporation tax in 1996 – this because the tax agreement has contributed to the fact that shipping companies have not been able to make use of depreciation of their investments. This is important to include in the further debate. Shipping has been and is the bearer of the maritime clusters, where interaction and proximity to customers are very important. Should the government's tax claims result in Norwegian shipping being flagged abroad, it is not the shipowners who lose, but the maritime clusters out in the districts. We're talking about hundreds of thousands of jobs that could be lost. With its presence, the shipping companies have contributed to Norway being the world leader in new environmental technologies on board ships today. Built-up equity, which is currently a major component of the tax burden, has been invested in new ships with high environmental technologies and important coastal jobs. It's like kicking in already wide-open doors when the Minister of Industry now says that one third of the tax demanded is to be applied to environmental technology. It does the shipping companies already today, much more than what the Government now requires. The same state council also says that Norwegian shipping industry will be world leader in new technology in the future. Norwegian shipping companies are already world leaders in environmental technology, much thanks to the old tax agreement that the Government is now breaking. The Minister for the Environment announced in Dagbladet on 3 October a major offensive to reduce NOx emissions in shipping and that new marine engines will reduce emissions by 50 pst. Olympic Shipping in More and Romesdal may already refer to new hybrid offshore construction vessels where NOx emissions have been reduced by as much as 95 pst. At the same time, they may indicate a 50 pst reduction in energy use/CO2. two thirds of the operating time. Norwegian shipping is a significant district industry. It is environmentally friendly, technology-driven, and it contributes to more environmentally friendly shipping. The government's proposal for the enforcement of tax credits weakens the clusters being exposed. [[The President Clubs Again]] It's not too late for the government to engage in dialogue with the industry and change the tax proposal that comes into the government budget tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e950	The number is still up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e953	This debate has given new substance to the term ‘opposition debate’. The leader of the Progress Party took a strong settlement with the Left and, in effect, dismissed the party as part of a civil option in two years' time. The Christian People's Party Bjørg Tørresdal used his line on Siv Jensen to stress that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party stood militarily apart in important policy areas, and now challenged the Right to respond to how they view the petroleum population of the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party leader, Dagfinn Højbrätten, said that he has nothing new to report since he excluded the Advance Party from a government constellation that the Christian People's Party would participate in or support in in 2005. This debate has shown that the path to a credible bourgeois government option is very demanding. This is probably also why the Left and Christian People's Party challenges the Center Party in relation to its role in Norwegian politics. The dream of a center government is attempted to keep alive. But I think both the Left Party and the Christian People's Party should prepare for the fact that they too can come into a position after 2009 where they have to make a choice: will they cooperate to the left or to the right? If they choose to cooperate to the right, it will not be possible to avoid cooperation including the Progress Party. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his contribution the importance of the UN for the solution of a number of the most important tasks we face, from climate and poverty to Iraq and Afghanistan. The other international organisation that is at the heart of solving many of the same tasks is the EU. Although we are not members, through the EEA Agreement, the Schengen Agreement and the cooperation on foreign and security policy, we are deeply integrated into EU cooperation – yes, we are, in fact, as much as Denmark and the United Kingdom, which also have some reservations. In addition, we are now participating in almost 30 different programmes in a number of policy areas. In the census, the Government announces that we are joining another programme, the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme for the period 2007-2013. It's important, and it's a small substitute for not being a member and not being able to participate fully in the Lisbon process of enhanced value creation. The importance of EU cooperation for us, too, is evident when we see how much of the cooperation we have today compared to the situation before 1994. At that time we had a free trade agreement, and we participated in two programmes, one on research and one on education. Today we are part of the internal market. We are part of the Schengen cooperation, which is still being extended, in the CFSP and, therefore, almost 30 different programmes. These developments have taken place continuously over the last ten to twelve years, regardless of how many so-called no-parties have been in government. Most programs are renewed this year, for a new six-year period, and as far as I know, the government has not chosen to leave a single one. In 1994, we chose to say no to full membership of the EU. But since then, we have chosen to join in where we have been allowed, each time the EU has developed its cooperation, either in the form of agreements or programmes. Some stronger expressions of the importance of this cooperation with and between our closest neighbours can be difficult to imagine.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e979	We have a municipal election fight behind us. A theme that attracted many voters in most municipalities, and which continues to occupy a large number of voters, is Norway’s roads, or rather Norway’s poor roads. Too bad they're, our roads, and most people around the country are painfully aware of. If the main road network in Norway has a standard that can be characterised as good, this will require an investment of NOK 230 billion. Even with red-green budgets, this could take 50 years. What is a tribal path? Yes, the main roads are the main roads in the overall national road transport system. They connect the parts of the country with each other and link Norway to the rest of the world. At the same time, tribal roads have important regional and local functions. It's on the main road network traffic is increasing. Tribal roads will continue to have an increasing impact on business and the population. So they're important for value creation and housing. It's these major pulse veins that are hopelessly outlawed. The main roads – the main roads in the national road transport system – need a ‘monthly landing lift’ to appear as an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network. The census gives no promise of lunar landing lift in the road sector. The only thing that reminds of the moon in the road sector is all the craters in the roadway and that the moon appears almost as far away as the goal of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network. It takes a long time to get to the moon without effective means. In the Common Era, the Government of Transport says: ‘The increased effort on a modern road infrastructure throughout the country shall continue.’ That means 50 new years with bad roads. New approaches are needed in Norwegian transport policy. The Progress Party proposes once again an infrastructure fund in which the return of 300 billion oil money is earmarked for roads, railways and other infrastructure in Norway. The Progress Party will have its own investment programmes to build the modern four-field motorway between, in and around the largest cities. This must be taken out of the national transport plan and implemented as own multiannual investment programmes. The state has to pay with the people's oil money. This government's instruments seem to be a tax on the use of cars and road construction financed by tolls. New transport policy requires the Progress Party in the government quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1005	In a country, a constant effort must be made to bind, create, community across previous borders. The construction of a community in a nation is as important and at least as demanding today as it was in the past. The social contract that we are all part of in a welfare society requires citizens to feel a common commitment to the society of which they are part. Building communities that go beyond the immediate family and circle of friends takes time, but is absolutely crucial. To create a community in a more and more diverse society, I believe that language, cultural life and work are among the most important keys. The challenges and opportunities for Norway to become an increasingly multicultural society are extensive, and there is a lot of talk and debate about integration and immigration around kitchen tables. The reality of whether we have a successful integration policy or not feels quite different when I'm in a public meeting or seminar than when I'm talking to people. While public debate, especially those of us who are in favour of a more humane immigration policy, often tends to say that everything is going so well, one quickly encounters another reality outside. Fortunately, most of them are very open. I think a human immigration policy is right, but there are many questions about whether we succeed in integrating and whether we are able to create good communities. Sometimes I think there is a tendency in established environments to underestimate the challenges we are facing, and therefore do not do enough. It is dangerous if the reality of those who rule, that is, us, and of a majority of the people, is too different. It can create racism and over time a completely different climate in relation to helping people in need. The key prerequisite for successful integration is that people get to work, and we need a policy where people get to work quickly. Fortunately, the unemployment rate is falling, but still professional participation in some immigrant groups is very low. In my own municipality, Stage, for example, there are 125 refugees from Somalia. Only 21 pst. Of those who are over 18 years of age, they're at work. Too many people become clients and recipients instead of contributors and activecitizens. With today's record low unemployment, it is very worrying that participation in the profession is below 40 pst. in important immigrant groups. As a society, we cannot afford to continue to have a policy in which important groups are passive. We need people in work, and work is the key to important communities. In order to meet the challenges we face, we in the Central Party believe that we must dry up to enter the debate without prejudice and see if, with our welfare system, we lock people in, if we make people unnecessary, rather than contributors. If that's the case, we have to do something about it, because both the individual and society will benefit from people going from passivity to activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1020	Preventing better is one of the three mantras of the Minister of Justice. Of course, the right fully shares that objective, but having the aim of preventing little helps when actions are not followed up to meet all the commitments made by the Minister of Justice on behalf of all his fellow Councillors as well as all the promises made in his own sector. Three times the government has promised an escalating plan for the drug field, while in reality it is falling. Keeping people free from drugs is one of the most important crime prevention measures that can be envisaged, and as the Government has not said anything about in the basis of this debate, even though representatives Karin Andersen and Inga Marte Thorkildsen are partly in line with the expectations created before the 2005 elections. It is a problem that you are more concerned with sugar and gorges than with preventing crime through psychiatry and rehabilitation. If there is no need for people with drug and crime problems, there are anti-sugar campaigns and gorges to measure how many times they have to go back and forth between different public agencies that do not help them. We have a child's protection how many children need follow-up, guidance and careful bordering, instead live under conditions that would have been considered a care failure and lack of bordering if they had lived at home. That is why the police in many parts of the country are concerned that their preventive work is almost abandoned when some children come into the institution. In fact, I may have intended to use a common marriage law when it comes and is adopted, but I think the situation in child protection should get more attention, to say it carefully. The research budget is also not uninteresting in preventing crime better. The cutbacks and cutbacks in research go beyond the smallest in society — justice’s share of the research funds is the least, and all those who feel small in Norwegian prisons with read and write difficulties could have a greater chance of choosing anything other than crime on their own. There is an economic policy that makes the most expensive. More money is allocated — yes — but it is done less because there is no effective policy that does nothing about the basic problem, for example. labour shortage. The government grants more money – yes – to e.g. Prison, not because it is to create a better offer than has already been agreed, but because it has become more expensive because of the active business rhetoric and labour market policies that are being pursued. A result we saw yesterday: every metre of road with asphalt is now becoming more expensive because of the labour situation and the labour market we have in this country. The best crime prevention action would actually be if the Minister of Justice had had the same impact in the rest of the government as he has in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1038	This year's census gives the impression that the Government is totally underestimating the challenges we face in our multicultural society. The notified notification of labour immigration is too late, and I record that migration seems to be a threat. And that's all they're saying. Globalisation and increasing openness in the world face ever-increasing challenges, and they must be taken seriously. We've got and will still get new cultures close to us. Our own culture is being challenged. Much is enriching, but much is also demanding. Something is completely unacceptable and must be controlled. On the right, the increased diversity will meet with a positive basic attitude and through inclusion and participation. We put the individual person in the center. The rights and requirements are two sides of the same case. Demands are to be made and people are to be given opportunities to succeed in Norwegian society. In integration policy too, the Right will give priority to the most important tasks. We'll do more for those who need it the most, and we'll invest for the future. Then language is important. Good Norwegian knowledge is a prerequisite for good functioning. Therefore, the right considers that strict and clear requirements must be imposed to master Norwegian, with subsequent good offers to master it. We need to increase the quality and ambition of Norwegian training. In our opinion, it is necessary to increase the number of compulsory hours in the introduction programme, the Norwegian hour. After 250 hours, the level of knowledge should be tested and, if the test is not passed, 250 hours extra, i.e. a doubling of the offer. Good Norwegian knowledge is a door opener both for work and for social participation. Norwegian training must start early. It is not acceptable for foreign-language children to be isolated from Norwegian society. We will extend the offer of language mapping to all four-year-olds and provide follow-up services if language mapping shows that this is necessary. The government’s distribution of funds for language stimulation for all children in certain minority areas is inadequate and not targeted. The municipality of Oslo would target language mapping, but the government said no and ordered the municipality to implement a general scheme. The local government obviously doesn't care that much about it. It is strange that the government does not express concern about all the young people with minority backgrounds who drop out of school and can easily end up in criminal environments. What measures will the Government put in place? How to improve school life for minority young people? I strongly miss the views of the Government and wonder whether this theme has passed through Stoltenberg, the Minister for Integration and the Minister for Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1057	Today’s debate has had many good speeches on key national and global challenges. It hastens this debate to be filled. The census points out that we're at a time when Norway is doing well, and that we're in a situation where we can do a lot for the rest of the world. Norway then goes the suser, we have better houses, cabins in the mountains, finer and bigger cars. But do I feel better? We've never had that much to live with. But do we have enough to live for? It's great to be young today. We have opportunities that former generations and young people in other countries can only dream about. But at the same time, we see that the number of young people with mental disorders is only increasing. The number of queues is longer and the average waiting time last year increases to 88 days, nine days more than in 2004. We all know some people who are struggling with mental problems. Seeing that some of them are happy has to wait a long time before help comes, doing things worse. In fact, among guys my age, there are more people who take their own lives than die in traffic. For me, there is a clear parallel between mental and physical suffering. If a player is playing football and breaking his foot, a doctor will not tell you to wait three months before you can operate. But that's the way it is in psychiatry. In the three months one on average has to wait, unfortunately a lot can happen. Good low-threshold services are then important for young people to be met in a safe and good way before they develop serious mental disorders. Through studies in the further education institutions, KRFU in Agder has surveyed access to the school services. The result is frightening. In East Agder, health sisters only have 63 seconds a week for every student, and in West Agder, the average is 98 seconds. This is dramatic, when we know what prevention can have to say to prevent mental problems. It may seem that local authorities are not able to prioritise this task high enough, so perhaps you should consider whether it is right that the municipalities have just this responsibility. At least as it is today, responsibility may seem to fall between two chairs, where the municipalities are responsible for health and the county councils are responsible for the further education. A team is never stronger than the weakest link, and society today exposes youth to an incredible pressure, from family, from friends, from television and magazines. Then it's important not only to have something to live with, but also to live for, and then it's important to bet on the weakest term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1072	The king reads on Tuesday, saying, «The objectives of economic policy shall be to work for all, sustainable development, a fairer distribution and strengthening of welfare systems.» I think that's a great summary. The last two years have seen many changes for the better: 130,000 more are working now than two years ago, and 50 000 have left the job queue and left to work.The government has submitted a climate report with ambitious objectives.The tax level has increased for those with the highest income, giving both fairer distribution and more money to the welfare of schools, in the care sector, in hospitals and more. That's not all that's black in the hospital sector, as one could get the impression in the debate earlier today. There is also a great deal of good happening, and never before has more treatment been given than now. This is progress that makes me happy, and I am hopeful both in view of the two years that are left of the ageing period, and in view of the 2009 elections. Then we all know that we still have major challenges ahead of us, in Norway and in the world. Politics is about the future, and that is where our focus must be. Reality shows that the opportunities that children have to live long and good lives are still very close to their economic and social background. There are differences between east and west, both literally and in transferred meaning.There are still challenges in hospitals.There is still poverty in Norway, and there are millions of poor people in other countries and parts of the world.Many places in the world are security, freedom and peace removing values in everyday life. There are many despairing people none of us know. There's a lot of headless eyes we've never seen. Therefore, solidarity and international commitment are so valuable. Norwegian aid to poor countries increased sharply in this year's budget. The report on the state of the kingdom, which was read by Helga Pedersen, stated that the aid should be stepped up further. It was also referred to the Government’s Platform for a Comprehensive African Policy, that the “Crisis in Darfur represents the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time” and to Norwegian contributions to the peace operation in Darfur Province. For me, the most important measure of society's quality is care for those who need it the most, whether it's here at home or out in the big world. We should be proud of the government's policies and the results achieved, while always focusing on the future, on achieving even more. The census gave cause for optimism for the year to come, and I am looking forward to the budget being presented tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1118	All countries — including Norway — need a defence, both for their own security and to help others if required. I think everyone agrees on this, but the size and the extent are the big difference when you look at the priorities of the individual parties. For the Progress Party, there is no doubt that Norway needs and must have a defence it respects. Norway's size, scale, our interest in oil and fish, and not least our location, make the Progress Party disappointed in the smaller contribution of the other parties. The Progress Party wants a budget where the Defense gets the opportunity to do fully the job we politicians put them to. Then the purse must be proportionate to the orders we give them. The Progress Party wishes to see a timely defence of national security and international involvement, as well as reactionary departments adapted to a larger range on the conflict scale. As late as today's VG, we can read about the state of our defense and how it can be in the future. According to VG, Chief of Defense Sverre Dien says: ‘We are definitely at a crossroads. The choice shall be between a credible defence, or a guided winding-up over a period of 25 to 30 years.’;» This is stated on the day before the submission of the State budget. For the Advancement Party, this is not new, or something we are surprised to read. We have said this and notified in many years. In a new report from the Swedish Defence Research Institute, we can read that the defense costs. Yes, as said, the Progress Party has always claimed. Since the 1990 defence budget amounted to approx. 12 pst. by the State budget, today it is 3-4 pst. There is now a big difference between structure and balance, even though we have had a great reorganization of defence. Many thousands of years of work are gone. Very many square meters of building mass have been removed, and the defense is becoming fewer and fewer. In addition, we are strongly involved in Afghanistan, which is supported by the Progress Party. This is a mission that takes a lot of resources, both economically, materially and not least humanly. There is great respect for the efforts of both military and civilians in this country, but we are struggling to get the cabal to jump. In addition, the Government has decided that Norway is going to Sudan. This becomes a very demanding task in a demanding area. The party of progress is skeptical about whether we can do this. In conclusion, I hope that tomorrow's state budget will give the increased North Norway defence bet that we've been promised for a long time, and that we get a defence budget that we respect, and not a managed liquidation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1138	This government has an incredible room for action. Economic trends and oil prices point straight to the weather. It has a strong back to wearing good times, it's called in the saying. For Norway, there is a question of whether the Government has it. We spend the big money on the big problems, said the Prime Minister. I note that higher education and research are clearly not included in the major tasks. We're not investing enough for the future. In the census, increased research effort is only a goal of the Government. You weren't more obligating. Targets adopted as the 3 p.m. measure, objectives for fellows, etc. was not mentioned. Safer employment was the message of Huitfeldt’s representative in a previous post. She might also have focused on the fact that it's an advantage that someone has the resources to hire someone first. I note that the government is making it as if it were in higher education and research, while the media are flooding with stories that the sector is rotting – literally – on the roots. Maintenance kits and construction situation are critical. At the University of Oslo there are roof drains and buckets inside the building, according to the Evening Post. The red-greens will have to continue trying to rewrite the reality of the sector. It's not easy to be credible that way. There is a broad consensus on the free principle of Norwegian higher education. But if today's development continues with a knowledge sector that rots on the roots and foundations of the rest cutting, the red-green government is in danger of turning the concept of the ‘knowledge society’ into a speck of our time, and they risk becoming the government that goes into history as the one undermining the free principle. A nation that lives on the world's welfare summit, which wants to maintain that position, and which will soon be the world's best in most areas, cannot live with a knowledge sector that is not internationally competitive. Then the alternative solutions will be pushed forward. It'll be a bit of a legacy for SV in the Department of Knowledge. Finally, a majority government does not appear to be particularly powerful when it does not manage better. The red-greens appear to be an alliance made to gain power, but are not so concerned that power must be accompanied by goal awareness in order to have a strength. Therefore, to the representative, Hansen, who was concerned about the discussion on the civil side: I went back to the census in 2003, i.e. two years before the red-green project was launched, and then they did not appear to be particularly assembled. You can worry about your own. I had expected the government to give a clear signal that the cut is over, that last year's cut is reversed, and that you were on the growth trail again. It didn't come. The excitement ahead of tomorrow is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1151	The government says they will continue to strengthen the local economy, and still give the impression that the same money can be used several times, which the municipalities do not have access to. Some of the most disadvantaged municipalities now expect a change in the income system in the municipalities. However, no matter how the provision of the income system may be, there will be a serious danger that local priorities will not take sufficient account of the increasingly heavy care and care tasks. The government proposes to build 12,000 new hospitals and nursing homes until 2015, but earmarked means of manning these hospitals will not be included in the government, which could lead to its being built according to the economy and not as needed. The government should have learned from the experience you have in this area. 12,000 new nursing homes may help meet today’s needs, but then care homes and psychiatry homes need to be built. To meet tomorrow's needs, you need a much stronger expansion. The evaluation of drug reform shows that there have been positive changes in the supply of drug addicts, but the signals from drug users and relatives say that many people who are receiving LAR treatment lack housing and do not receive the follow-up they are going to have. The waiting time for treatment and rehabilitation may destroy the motivation of someone who wants to get out of drug use. Motivation is fresher, and in the worst case, waiting time can cost lives. There is a great lack of treatment and rehabilitation institutions, and then it makes no sense to hear about institutions that have to shut down because they lack clients. The government will present an escalation plan within the drug field, but the municipalities have still not been required to draw up their own drug plans. One of the main weaknesses is precisely the interaction and lack of overall follow-up in the municipalities. Priority shall be given to the provision of mental health to children and young people. The waiting time for treatment should be reduced, but the quality of treatment is equally important. The waiting time cannot be reduced by shortening the number of treatment hours due to economic or resource shortages. Despite the follow-up of a targeted and ear-marked psychiatry escalation plan, there are still major shortcomings and weaknesses in all areas. It suggests that a further and perhaps even closer follow-up with ear-labelled substances should be considered, not only in terms of the construction of approximately. 3 000 new psychiatry homes, but also to maintain and strengthen the operation of psychiatry in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1166	I want to take the opportunity to reflect a little bit on some of the challenges our kingdom seems to have not just for the moment, but as more with me also we're going to have in the future. I am very much in favour of using our resources and living well in Norway. We've been lucky, and we've worked hard for it. Still, we are growing, and it creates challenges that can also limit our potential. I am thinking in particular of the property prices, which have had a formidable growth. This in turn has ring-effects, which give us crazy market prices for construction. Many of our construction projects at state and municipal level, such as roads, prisons and colleges, are now being put on hold because the market is overheated and the tenders crack down by a million. As an example, I can use the University of Westfold, where the bid that was offered when two years ago was awarded, is now estimated to be worth over 100 million. kr only due to an increase in the market price. Spending time reviewing projects in such price classes is often expensive, and drawing up cut lists in this order will clearly go beyond quality. And exactly the quality worries me. There are large imports of unskilled workers, and the time pressure is high on any project. An increase in the number of insurance cases and an increase in the number of enquiries to the Consumer Ombudsman on housing matters are reported, while we want people to invest in living standards and environmentally friendly alternatives when building, whether private or public. Unfortunately, I think both private companies and municipalities are a little concerned about these days when you see how little you get left for large investments. As I see it, we will have to take the debate forward in relation to investment. Are we going to wait for large investments after the market and get stuck with people's expectations, or are we going to pay what the market requires for us to keep state investments in line? Of course, it is a debate that can be nuanced, but for those projects that are now waiting for cut or new additional appropriations, it is a great impression. I want to work to find solutions to this in the future. Basically, I think it's us politicians themselves who have to get rid of our promises so that we can continue with the new ones that we've actually committed ourselves to. I conclude by saying that I am happy that the brokerage industry is now reporting a decline in housing prices. Hopefully that means that the central bank manager's instruments have made the market calm down a little. Maybe that'll give us more normal levels in the future, even though it might now seem a little bit unlikely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1181	The people and not least the business of my home country Sogn and Fjordane are very excited about the coming state budget. The government party has made great promises about more government funds both in the previous election campaign and now. So far, there's been little money and a lot of excuses, where it's always shown that something is coming. Now there are two years left of this period, and if the promises are to be kept, the budget for 2008 has to make great promises. Will there now be enough money for road and race protection? The Minister of Transport has gone a long way in promising a great deal of funding for new buildings, maintenance and racial protection of the country’s roads. I fear that most of the funds for transport go to the railways and public transport in central districts. The district is penalised with a 20- cent increase in fees per year. liter of diesel, according to the leaks from the Government. The biggest failure from the government party is in the hospital sector. The underhanded increases, the cows grow, and the people in my county ask themselves where it is from the promises of the «torch queen» Åslaug Haga. I'm afraid that's the same thing as in the middle of a relationship: there's little money, but a bunch of excuses. This will not help you with poor birth control and an ongoing reduction in emergency preparedness in Sogn and Fjordane. The municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane have been informed that the healthcare company has ordered hospitals to print and send patients home much earlier than before. This is a consequence of a lack of government commitment to leaders and will impose major economic and professional challenges on municipalities. I see in my county a total disaster for the staffing of competent people in the care and care professions. Means must be earmarked for building up the necessary competences for municipalities to cope with the difficulties of the elderly and hospital discharge procedures. Once the government has used ear-marked means to achieve its objectives for kindergarten development and psychiatry, and will not use ear-tagged privileges for the care of the elderly, these are only empty election campaign promises and will not want concrete action. Finally, I would like to say a few words about fishing. One of the most difficult fishing boat owners is to hold on to the competent teams they miss in competition with the oil industry. One of the requirements of this industry is to increase the extract from fish. The party of progress has said that the fisherman’s deduction should be at least NOK 150 000. I hope the Government has also taken the height of this in the budget that will be presented tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1200	Let me help the Prime Minister to remind you a little bit back in 2003, when Kristin Halvorsen, in a reply to Jens Stoltenberg, said the following: ‘Jens Stoltenberg boasts of Kjell Magne Bondevik’s open and searching attitude towards the EU. That's how yes-people talk when former no-people start moving towards a yes-position. But that's not how yes-people act themselves. In order to have an open and searching attitude towards the EU, it is far from the relationship of Stoltenberg with the EU. He is a suitable EU trailer.’ Finally, she asks what is most important for the Workers' Party: the EU or a majority constellation. In answer, Stoltenberg says: ‘I will never accept that the Labour Party, if we decide and believe that the time has come to re-open the issue of EU membership, must choose between obliging cooperation, among others. by SV, and doing what we think is right in European policy. I believe that the question can just as easily be returned to SV, whether SV will make the EU case stand in the way of binding cooperation between our two parties.’ Stoltenberg also answers Haga in another line about the EU: ‘For the Centre Party, it is very simple in many ways. They know exactly what they mean at any time, and thus it also becomes quite boring in the Center Party." I fully agree with Stoltenberg that the Senter party in many cases is predictable dogmatic, but it has also remained Stoltenberg after he became prime minister. How's it feel, for example? have been made by the EU-supplied trailer? Four years ago, the disagreement between current government parties was significant in a number of other areas as well: oil money use, gas power plants, the Barents Sea, industrial power regime and the environment, to mention some important areas. SVs Hallgeir H. Langeland asks Sylvia Brustad rhetorical: ‘... will they continue to compete with the Progress Party for an environment hosting?’ The root, disunity, chaos we saw in the Common Era in 2003, lives on in the best well-being within today's government. The right will be a guarantor of a civil government in 2009. We will try to find political compromises that will unite all the bourgeois parties, because Norway needs a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1231	I think it is sad that the country's government in its throne does not have the ability to reach those areas that are crucial for Norway's future well-being. A prerequisite for us as a nation to be able to take advantage of the possibilities that lie ahead of us is, among other things. a good and modern infrastructure. The government is right enough to warn that the increased investment in a modern road infrastructure across the country will continue, now that it means. It therefore concentrates on inconsequential rhetoric rather than concrete measures to ensure a bet as monks. The government says nothing about whether it is willing to put the skyscrapers aside and increase the use of OPS solutions in relation to major road development, a solution that would give us more roadway, road to agreed prices and a more efficient pace of development rather than today's patchwork. The government says nothing about how it will solve the growing maintenance situation on Norwegian roads as workers and businesses throughout the country experience the consequences of every single day. Government is unclear and unambitious in a number of important issues related to the challenges of transport for our long-term country. It becomes a brake block for our nation's ability to use the whole country to meet the challenges of the future. The consequences of the government's puzzled transport policy are not only that opportunities are being played out, and that new opportunities are lacking, but we also see that under this government a new class distinction has emerged in the municipality of Norway. Because the government is not taking action to adequately strengthen the financial framework of the NTP, rather compensating for the extraordinary price growth that our country is experiencing, more and more municipalities are seeing need to advance important and necessary investments in infrastructure. With the last increase in interest rates fresh in memory and a strong price increase on top of it all, sniping pending state contributions will only be an alternative for rich municipalities. For municipalities with a less liberal economy, this becomes an impossible priority against important welfare measures, such as several primary school teachers and several nursing homes, to mention something. For these municipalities, their inhabitants and for the local business community, these are the most real and real challenges to which the government's throne speech does not give a glimmer of answers. Despite the fact that today's government has won Lotto every year of this period, and despite the fact that the Prime Minister has said that the big money will be spent on the big tasks, the municipalities, their inhabitants and the local business community are still waiting for ambitious action in this field. Unfortunately, the answers, the ambitions and the actions that would give us a future with new opportunities do not exist. This government seems to take the goal of entering the history books as the government of the abused possibilities, and with this year's census it has taken a great step towards meeting that very goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1242	I shall allow myself to make a quote from the famous Soria Moria Declaration, during the chapter shipping: «Norwegian shipping industry has long traditions. Shipping and the maritime industry contribute to important work on competence across the coast. Norway must have the ambition to be a world leader in maritime research, development of competences and innovation. Through good and stable framework conditions, we will contribute to ensuring jobs and growth in the maritime industries.’ I think the whole Stortinget can agree that these are important objectives, and so far also the whole Storinget in several debates over the last two years has joined the corresponding objectives of the shipping industry and the entire maritime cluster. That is why it is also regrettable, since representatives of the government parties criticised the previous government for having a vague policy towards this industry throughout the last major period. I think it was quite right to criticize the previous government for such a vague policy, but it becomes pathetic when you see how the sitting government follows up this industry, which is so important to the country. Yesterday, Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, Dag Terje Andersen presented a maritime strategy called Stø kurs. So this is going to be a strategy for the government's work on the maritime industries for the rest of this big period. It is well and good that the Government is presenting an action plan, a maritime strategy, but then there must be a comprehensive policy. Regrettably, the Government has shown that it is unable to lead towards this industry when it comes to a policy in which large parts of equity in several of these corner stone companies are withdrawn, probably in proposals that come tomorrow. It is not then possible to pursue a comprehensive policy towards industry. You haven't been able to hold a bad course. You have, as the industry itself has said, come up with a policy that is irrelevant. If you are to follow the Government's goal of pursuing an active industrial policy, you have to have a policy that is thought through and that is coherent with the industries. Then it does not help to make promises in one document when you cannot follow up on others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1258	It would have been tempting to use my post to comment on the posts of the Right Two Justice Spokespersons, but instead I'm going to try to be a little more constructive. Many have highlighted Norway as the world’s best country to live in, including many from this pulpit today. I think that all those who experience living in a home filled with fear and violence experience it in a different way. More indicators have also emerged in the last year that the state of things is still bad. The Resource Centre for Men and Amnesty presented in April a report on Norwegian men's attitudes to violence against women. It shows that we Norwegian men still have a very long way to go before we can be satisfied. We also have other indicators that show the same thing. For example, the number of women visiting our crisis centres has remained stable at about a quarter. 2,500 since the mid 1980s. This year's NIBR report shows the same situation. It also says something about the extent of violence against women. In fact, every fourth woman experiences being in a relationship where violence or threats of violence occur. Violence against women and children has many expressions. From our own culture, we are well aware of the domestic violence committed by partners or former partners, in connection with the Norwegian drunk. We have rapes, and last, but not least we've got an element of trafficking in Norway as well. From other cultures, we find examples of coercion, circumcision and honorary drap. I say this to illustrate that we have to fight violence in close relationships in many fields and with many instruments. Fortunately, this government has taken this seriously. We have now received a government that not only talks but also acts – that is, the reverse of what some of the opposition claims today. The work in this field is well under way. In the field of justice, we have put in place an aid lawyer's system for victims of rape, we have started the establishment of Barna's House, we have come up with a bill to extend the use of DNA for, among other things. clarifying several rapes, introducing a new law to ensure children against abuse, in particular in view of the Internet. We have started by improving the ability of the police to handle these kinds of issues by strengthening the budgets and developing expertise on the topic. The government has also done a good job in this field in a number of other areas. I can quickly mention the action plan on trafficking, where there are several departments inside the picture, the pilot project on pregnancy control, where more victims of violence are sought, and the strengthening of the offer of victims of sexual violence. I could mention a lot more. But I want to stay a little bit busy with the most important thing we can do, namely, prevent better. We now have a golden opportunity to put this with the police council on the agenda, precisely because there was a unanimous decision in the Stortinget when we made the police report, and because we have now got elected local politicians out, which allows us to change together the attitudes of men towards violence against women and children. I hope that the opposition will be more positive than what it has shown here today in this important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1271	This government spends a lot of money on huge tasks, which the representative Erna Solberg called for earlier today. It is enough short to mention the Keyword Municipal Economy, the National Transport Plan, CO2 clean-up and renewable energy – Keywords that distinguish this government diametrically from the previous. The government is on track with the deliveries from Soria Moria. I am very pleased that the Government has set up a fund for energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy to increase up to NOK 30 billion by 2012. It will provide several hundred million dollars to be used for renewable energy measures each year. I am also pleased that the representative Erna Solberg is now saying that a renewable energy fund is a good idea. As a contrast, I would refer to the 2005 state budget. It stated: ‘There is no proposed allocation of the State budget for the Energy Fund in 2005.’ Thus, the last greeting to the Government of Bondevik II for the commitment to renewable energy was zero kroner above the State budget. According to the Bondevik II government, the people and industry, or the market alone, were responsible for all support for the expansion and conversion of more renewable energy. Unfortunately, history shows merciless, black on white, that no other government has invested so much in energy conversion and renewable energy as the one in which the Center Party is now sitting. As a representative of Uppland Bioenergy County, I am very concerned about what the Government is doing to promote renewable heat. The grips have led us to reach, among other things, experiences a doubling of the number of applications for heating projects. It's important for the climate, and it's important to free us from our unilateral dependence on electricity. Bioenergy has now gone from being an opportunity for active and initiative-rich farmers to also be a development and business area for large energy companies, such as energy companies. Eidsiva and Hafslund see possibilities within. Around the country, we experience that almost weekly ‘popping up’ large and smaller bioheaters. There is optimism in the industry, and competence is spreading. The last week's news from my own home country is a new bioheating plant based on forest waste and tile. It is to be fired from Valle High School and supply Lena Centre with district heating. In order to trigger new projects contributing to energy conversion, we need active interaction between countries, municipalities and businesses. The work has been started by the Government. It has started it through a fund with a return on funds that provides predictable framework conditions, by providing investment aid to district heating plants, by establishing its own infrastructure programme to be in place from the new year, by offering courses for all municipalities to learn energy and climate planning and by providing grants to municipalities to build energy and climate plans. The government also contributes by developing its own bioenergy strategy. I note that this government is delivering.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1289	For me, it's amazing to right-hand say that the bet on commerce in this government is puzzled. I have to say that I have been a member of the transport selection in More and Romesdal to put in place the national transport plan for 2006-2015. We then got the Bondevik II government's frames, and we were desperate because we didn't get our projects in place. So the men's plurality in Stortinget gets up and added to these frames with $2 billion a year. It was in a completely different way that we put in place the action plan, and it wasn't puzzled that time. We got a real transport lift, and from the Right's side, local representatives, it was said that this was just air money. Now we see that we're up at the level that we call Soria Moria today. We've put this in place, and in many ways this plan was made by the plural, also important for the future, because one took the railway to a much stronger extent than before. So an environmental effort was also included in the national transport plan. I think it is important, as has been said today, to bet on the environment in different fields. This railway is very important. But let it also be clear that we must not forget the road. The road is the most important thing for much of our country. We also need to look at the environmental impact on the road. The Sintef report has been mentioned here earlier today. It is clear that by straightening out the roads, and by expanding them too, we can save a lot of time from transporting them. We know that in the future the road becomes the most important in much of the country for both private and business life. The use of environmentally friendly fuels will be significant. We also know that new cars will come with new engines, and we will then reduce emissions significantly. For us in the Center Party, it is important to keep focus on roads and thus on the districts. This one with a yellow middle stripe on the roads is something the center part really wants to bet on further forward. If we're going to get a good transport from the districts, maybe that's the most important wager in the field of transportation. In any case, much of the transport from the districts has to be done by road. We know that the warehouse for many industrial companies is in the car and in the vehicle train. And if we can't use the car, the logistics in our companies is also broken. For the Centre Party, the coating and the yellow centre strip are an important bet area further forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1300	Nearly one year ago, on December 1, 2006, the government launched its Northern Territory Strategy. Large words and phrases were used, among other things. that the northern regions would become the main strategic area of the Government. However, little has happened since the launch. In fact, progress has been made in facilitating border crossings and trade, but this does not capture the major new developments that we are now seeing. I would like to mention first of all Russia, which planted the Russian flag on the North Pole this summer, at the bottom of the ice. This wasn't just the coin on the home audience in Russia. It is also a testimony that Russia has its own north-eastern strategy where the fight for marine resources is central. Russia claims large parts of the Arctic. In addition, we have been informed that Russian bombers regularly conduct take-offs in the north, including in the areas up to the Norwegian border, the Norwegian Sea and the North Sea. This has resulted in a number of interception and identification tasks for Norwegian fighter aircraft. At the same time, we see significant refurbishment and military renewal in the Kola Peninsula. This activity testifies to the fact that Russia is targeting a military presence in the northern regions at a significantly higher level than what we saw in the 1990s. In the wake of this, Chief of Defense Sverre Denen has pointed to Russia as a military force of great interest in the northern regions, which could be a major challenge for Norway. He further points out that in the future, new disagreements between Norway and Russia may arise in the fight for fish, oil and gas in the northern regions. This he believes is a potential safety challenge that Norway needs to tackle on its own. NATO's attention and resources would like to be elsewhere. Some have thus suggested that we should seek new alliance partners. In addition, I would like to mention internationally recognised reports that show that the police are melting significantly faster than previously assumed. This opens up too many opportunities for transport and resource use. However, this also raises new security policy challenges. All of this shows that the strategic picture in the northern regions is changing very rapidly. As a result, Norway’s position is no longer as clear as we would like. The Northern Territory Strategy of the Government does not respond to these new challenges, nor does it outline a clear course or point in a direction in which we should be briefed. Much, therefore, suggests that the Northern Region Strategy of the Government has been set aside on important points before celebrating its one-year anniversary. I would therefore urge the Government to make serious of its ambitions to make the northern regions its main strategic focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1315	The regulatory time is soon to pass. The President will therefore propose that we continue the meeting until the current map has been finalised – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1318	Today's debate started with the representative Siv Jensen challenging the Prime Minister on what the Government will do for the poor here at home. The representative of Jensen showed that today we have more than 200,000 minimum pensioners living below the EU poverty line. Yes, according to the department's own figures, approx. 240 000 minimum pensioners and 60 000 minimum pensioners, i.e. nearly 300000 women and men, were raised above the EU poverty line if the minimum pension was increased to 2G. It is directly disappointing that the Government does not mention poverty with a single word in the throne. On August 24, I was present at the Poor Norway hearing at Youngstorget. There was also the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. Both ministers tried in a hectic election campaign to overcome each other and make themselves as tasty as possible for the poor. In view of the sham offensive they then showed to the poor of the country, probably more than I expected that this important theme would be mentioned in the census. In the context of the review of the social security settlement of the year, the Progress Party proposed to increase the minimum pension to 2G. So we came up with a concrete measure that would have helped 300,000 out of poverty. Here the government got an outstretched hand. The government could have really shown with all its weight that it meant to eliminate poverty. Instead, captivated the Government of the extended hand and opposed the proposal. And the Minister of Labour and Inclusion was so free on 14 June that he called the whole proposal a Christmas event proposal. So much respect was shown by the government to the elderly – who have built this society, who have lived in accuracy, and who today unfortunately live in poverty and are called minimum pensioners. So the government wasn't willing to use 0.83 pst. of the surplus of DKK 300 billion to raise the minimum pensioners above the poverty line. 0.83 pst. is what it would have cost to take this grip. The representative Jensen challenged the Prime Minister on what he would do to get the minimum pensioners out of poverty. In this respect, the Prime Minister showed that the Government has done a lot, and that, after all, more has been done. Does it mean – with respect to reporting – that Mrs. Nilsen, 78 years old, is going to work to get a better working life and a life without poverty? What will the current government do to lift the minimum pensioners out of the poverty problem? I find that the sitting government had neither intended to do anything nor did anything. It does not act, which today's edition of both the Newspaper and the VG confirms. We extend a hand enough and hope that the Government can take it – and not captivate this hand as well – and support the proposal of the Progress Party No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1336	I want to spend 3 minutes of my life on the left. I'll do that because I really have a rather positive view of the Left, although it might have been corrected in the last few days. I've learned that one should have respect for the elderly – and the Left is an old party. I think it has been because it has adapted to political realities. And I have probably in my political naivety expected the Left this time to grow out of opposition to the Progress Party and deal with political realities – but no. The left cannot cooperate with the Progress Party. The representative Sponheim has today given four reasons why it cannot – i.e. he has given one reason, consisting of four moments. The only reason is that the political distance is too large. It is based on the fact that the political distance in terms of solidarity, immigration, the environment and the use of oil money is too great. He has even said that he believes in a greater political breakthrough for the Left if they cooperate with the Workers' Party. I have a list here, where a comparison between the Left Programme and the Progress Party programme, for example. shows that the Progress Party and the Left agree on 24 points relating to the public sector. We agree on 79 specific points in terms of business and tax policy. In the environment and energy sectors, we agree on 21 points. In the area of criminal policy and legal security, we agree on 38 points – in foreign policy 18 points, in defence policy 19 points, in family policy 11 points, and in health and care 33 points. In education and research, there are a total of 44 points, in transport 12 points and in culture 12 points – a total of 317 points. And these are not the results of negotiations. These are quite concrete similarities and similarity elements in the batch program of the two parties. If one then puts the four political areas that Sponheim mentioned, in the one scale and the 317 points in the other, I have difficulty understanding Sponheim's reasoning, because it's not related. It is simply unmistakable that the Left can ever have such a political impact with the Workers' Party – possibly together with the SV and the Centre – that it will have in collaboration with the Centre, the Right and the Advance Party. That's why I hope that what we've seen in the last few days is a rash of some sort of positioning, and that the Left also this time shows that it can grow out of this kind of rhetoric, relate to political realities, see the voters in the eyes before 2009 and say, "We're a bourgeois party." We need to support a bourgeois four-party government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1351	We've had a throne debate that's been about the home arena a lot. I want to move into another area and express my deep satisfaction at the clear and clear statements of the Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding Norway's position on the military regime in Burma. We have witnessed through the media a non-violent struggle for democracy and human rights that has been defeated – and thus replaced by a crushing silence. The world community has reacted by suggesting that we strengthen the economic sanctions that we have. Unfortunately, two of the major acts of the East — with its interests in the oil and gas sector in Burma — shame this. So economic interests count more than human rights. It is also gratifying that the Government provides clear and solid support for the UN mission and his work in Burma. And I hope that through our diplomatic channels towards India and China we can try to convince and get to a situation in Burma that gives hope for a good, democratic future. The Foreign Affairs Committee has been travelling in Namibia and Angola, and it is a pleasure to be able to report back examples of successful Norwegian assistance. We visited two resource-intensive countries. One has significant mineral resources, but not least fish – it is Namibia. In Angola, there's oil and gas. In Namibia, we have contributed with Norwegian legislation adapted to African conditions. From a zero situation when it comes to the exploitation of fisheries resources, today the country is making $4.5 billion, and there are 40,000–50,000 people working in that sector. They have been given control of their resources, and they are asking for additional Norwegian assistance. In Angola, two Norwegian oil companies that are now merged into one, StatoilHydro, have been involved in the creation of legislation adapted — including there — to African conditions, and the revenue of the country is significant. And what's even more pleasing is the fact that we've got Norwegian safety and Norwegian environmental standards in this area. And both countries are asking for further assistance. They see us as a constructive partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1367	I would like briefly to return to an exchange of lines with the Minister of Transport earlier today. I pointed out that North Norway has not been given part of the increase that the sitting government has introduced into the budget for transport. For the three Northern Norwegian states, the allocation has been flattened and partly reduced. The Minister of Transport did not protest at the realities, but, as she very often does, let the blame be placed on the former government for our low ambitions when the NTP was rolled last. We find ourselves in a lot, but not in direct disinformation. The current level of funding in the NTP was adopted by a majority consisting of the opposition at that time, who is now in government. This means that the Minister for Transport himself is responsible for the level of NTP’s funding and the ambitions of North Norway. I therefore insist that it is very disappointing that the Minister of Transport so far argues North Norway, at a time when the whole Stortinget is committed to investing in the northern regions. The Minister of Transport is alone in charge of development, and I hope that this is the last time the opposition is charged with a responsibility that it does not have. So I'm going to spend the rest of the time following up what the Dagfinn Højbrätt made for a major point in his main post, namely that we have to move from talking about a welfare society to talking about a quality of life society. Arne Garborg has written a very often quoted poem, entitled ‘About Money’, and he concludes as follows: 'The scale of all things can be a few for money. But not the nucleus; [[...]] If this was true in Arne Garborg's time, it applies twice today. I refer you to a random look at Lofotposten on 29 September, from my homelands. It says as a title: ‘Police force ointment’. - And on the other hand, [[...]] Then two young, 17-year-old girls are interviewed, and they say the following: «We have friends. We are very happy that parents are parents and nothing else." And then the challenge comes: ‘Restrictions. Be tough. Don't be afraid of a fight. For us, it is very important to have parents who show that they care and show that they will be with us." Tomorrow's the state budget. Then it becomes important for the Christian People's Party to give priority to the posts in the budget that build up under values of life, what strengthens the social relations between us, and what gives quality to the growing-up environment of children. We challenge the rest of the Storing to be with us on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1403	The desire to help the weakest is a recurring theme, but unfortunately I think that for those involved, it is an experience that it is often about many beautiful words and good intentions – worse it is with political action and results. Child protection is such an area, an area that includes the absolute weakest in our society, and unfortunately an area of negative development. Unfortunately, we need to remind the Government that the Council of State, between its accession, clearly signalled that child protection was a high priority area where immediate action was required. Today we see a situation in child protection where there is clearly a need to speed up the work. On the one hand, it's about money, but not least, unfortunately, it's about ideology. Strong increases in child protection appropriations have not resulted in a corresponding increase in the number of children receiving help. The reason for this is, among other things, a strong and systematic refusal to use private operators. The government stands here for an ideologically anchored reluctance which in practice leads to the choice of deferment of measures by private individuals, pending the availability of space and the availability of capacity in the state child protection. Despite the development of the public offer, we see that totality provides less diversity and less adapted solutions for the fortunate children. A number of good private environments of competence and niche-like measures adapted to different groups of children and young people in the field of child protection are being restricted and reduced during these days. We can mention the Havnøy Foundation in Tønsberg and Madlavieen Housing in Stavanger, both institutions driven by a unique commitment of employees and owners and with good child protection competence. This has the serious consequence of reducing the diversity of interventions and the narrowing of skills environments, and all child protection developments will be limited to research and evaluation by the country’s own institutions. If you really mean something with a high-quality child protection and a great variety of offers adapted to the individual child, we wonder that the government so cynically lets good professional environments and private initiatives go dormant in a purely ideological warfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1420	We all know the adventure from H. C. Andersen about an emperor who would have the most beautiful suit anyone in the world could imagine. Pride and joy he spread down the main street of the city to cheering shouts and wondering glances, until a little boy stood up and said, 'He doesn't have anything on him!' It is close to thinking about this adventure after hearing the Government's use of words in the climate debate, in the light of the lack of concrete content and strategy on the part of the Government. What we have seen so far does not hold for Norway to become a leading nation in climate policy. That is why we have great respect for Thorbjørn Jagland, who is standing up both in the newspaper last Friday and here in the hall during the opening of the Storting. He calls for a government that dares to impose unpopular measures such as fraud. I'm going to land you brave. It is very respectable of one in his position in this way to dismiss the emperor, to take a settlement both with today's Norwegian government and former governments, including the one he himself led. The world's leading climate scientists tell us that the clock is at least five to twelve. It has to be done. In 2007, public budgets spent three times as much money research on fossil energy providers as on renewable energy research. The oil industry has vacuumed the country for engineering competence. Norway is well above the top in oil production on its own base. The companies focus on conflict-affected areas. Our neighbouring countries have ambitious targets related to oil independence and the development of renewable energy, followed by action and money. It's drawing an image that we can't live with. Our human capital is being depleted, our infrastructure remains fossil, and our technology will be useless when the oil ends. We don't take into account the environment and ethics despite good knowledge, and we're not preparing to be competitive in the future. At the same time, we have skilled technology environments, huge renewable resources and capital – the advantage we could use to our advantage in the window of opportunity that exists today. A paradoxical power crisis in mid-Norway that has been known throughout the big period is not solved. Maybe we get mobile gas power plants that can contribute to a major crisis. We need a commitment to energy in this area that is not based on yesterday's technology. Now we need an ambitious research budget and a broad climate settlement with a strong commitment to renewable energy – no more of the emperor’s new clothes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1431	I want to talk about a theme that I'm very concerned about. It's security for the individual. Security in the real sense — security of life and health, security that if something happens, someone will come and help you. The Prime Minister mentioned in his speech that crime should not pay off. I went down Karl Johan when there was a break in Stortinget's meeting. What was it I saw? Well, it was free drug trafficking, it was crime going on in the street. What signal does it give about fighting crime when the police do not have the power to address this? There is no doubt that there is a lack of police both here in Oslo and in my home country of Vestfold. We need more police in the streets to solve the problems and create security. I think we have a cold society when the dead after traffic accidents stay in the way for hours because the police can't get to the place. I think we have a cold society when we have rape victims who have to stand up in the media and call for help from us politicians that we should enable the police to investigate and have rapists convicted. I would say that what was done by a representative earlier here today is not a fine thing to mention to a certain minister as a minister of promise-breaker. One might wonder about what is happening: Are these success criteria in the justice sector? Then I come up with a different topic – leadership pay among police officers and police officers’ bonuses. Are these criteria to base their bonus payments? I think it might be time for us to see what criteria apply to their bonuses and bonus payments. The red-green government stands hard every time a business trip gets a bonus – they need to know what it is, and they prefer to take the bonus from him. I want to know what the Minister of Justice, the Labour Party and the government parties think are success criteria in the justice sector. I hope it's not the case that rape victims have to wait in line for an investigation, that they have paychecks to meet the rapist in the street the day after you've been in the courtroom, that you have to wait two hours for the police after an accident. I hope that is not a success criterion. But I hope we'll see it soon, so that people can also be involved in measuring what the police are doing. I believe that there is satisfaction among the population, among the majority of people, who should be the most important criterion for the police – whether they deliver, not if you hold the budget and go on the line and keep the budget balance. The important thing is to care about people and help people. Then I believe we need to enable the police to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1444	Recently, it has moved us to a series of leaks from the Chief of Defense's studies on the future structure of the Norwegian defence. The investigation will not be published until 5 November, and a debate on this matter may therefore appear a bit premature. However, in the light of press comments later, many of the representatives of the government parties and local politicians have been given access to the investigation, or at least parts of it, and we recognize clear outlines of the very drastic proposals made by the head of defence. For example, we hear about decommissioning units within the Air Force, cutting within the Navy and shutting down the Defence Competence Centre for Command, Control and Information Systems at Jørstadmoen. Not least because we have had a less dramatic hostile image in recent years than in the Cold War, the lower priority of defence has been more politically viable. While budgets have been kept down, defence has been given new tasks, not least in connection with operations abroad and tasks we see coming, for example in the context of enhanced surveillance of the northern sea areas. The defense is in strong transition, a process that in itself is demanding enough. Then it is important that the political signals are clear and that there is a link between the political desires for activity and the economy that is put at the disposal. In the strong technological development we're in, it's obvious that defense needs environments of excellence at the top professional level in this field. That's why it was promising when you did the grip with a set of technological skills across the arms of the competence center at Jørstadmoen. In addition to being an appropriate lever for defence, the activities have also benefited from the technological environment in the Mjøs region, such as: is expressed through the establishment of a safety study at the University of Gjøvik — a few years ago, a desired lift and a bet on the Defence, now only two to three years after a proposed closure. We should ask ourselves why. The publication of the Chief of Defense's studies and the presentation of the State budget tomorrow will be an interesting starting point for the wide-ranging defence policy debate to come. It is already important at an early stage to give signals about what defence we believe Norway should have. Then the defense cannot again appear as a balancing post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1461	The left's view of itself as a bourgeois centre party has aroused some commitment during the debate – not so much with the Right and the Workers' Party, who basically know what this is, but a part of the Progress Party. The representative Tybring-Gjedde asked ten questions to the left about what we really meant. The representative Anders Anundsen has had a local colloquial group and has gone through 300 points, and well there, he's found answers to it. Since it's the way the representative Anundsen and I both sit on the education committee and I have real art, I get to say that I learned about weights in my time, and there's a difference in weight. There are some weights that are small, and then there are some that are big. Because the Left takes the agenda of the Progress Party seriously – because we think we should do it in relation to all parties – we think that the weight that is about the environmental challenge is so heavy and so big that for us it does not keep it under the list. For us, we are not satisfied with the government's climate regulations. We say quite openly that together with parties in Stortinget, SV and the other government parties, we want to create a better solution than the one that exists. So in other words, we have great ambitions, and at that point, there's a significant difference between the Left and the Advance Party, to put it in a language. And so if we stick to the same formed language, there's a big difference between having an infinity bag of money that still comes from the money we inherited from nature, that is, the oil wealth, and the left's attitude to this. We think we should have a sober use of oil money, because that's the whole foundation of a healthy business. The whole foundation that we have a business that lives is that we have the economy under control. At this point, we disagree with each other. Then we have a relationship with a multicultural society with rights and obligations, where the Left is, in fact, able many times to say that we want to combat the discrimination that minority representatives are subjected to when they do not get jobs, when they are over-competent, but seem alien to those who are going to employ them. It is simply a strenuous student exercise that both the representative Sponheim and I have done to Carl I. Hagen and Siv Jensen, respectively, to get some of them to say something positive about this. In Norwegian it means that there is a certain political difference. These points that the representative Sponheim has drawn up before today, I take up again, not because we don't want to talk about politics, but precisely because we take politics seriously. When we take politics seriously, I can sum it up with two points. It's a sympathetic feature of Norwegian politics, especially locally, that you can find many points where wise people find each other. But in national policies, which are relevant to the country as a whole, there are some issues that weigh so heavily that to take them seriously, they also need to be presented in that way. And then it's part of the story, to say it dry, that the representative Sponheim hasn't fallen in love with social democracy, he's just chosen to use social democracy to indicate that we don't want to be run over by the right wing, by the Right plus the Progress Party at the same time. The left does not want Jens or Jensen as Prime Minister, we want a solution between a bourgeois centre and the Right Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1476	The debate on the throne is immediately over, and the debate on the throne must be a place where the parties also show their visionary and overall programme declarations. At the end of this debate, I would just like to stress the Christian People's Party's overall programme statements, presented by our representatives. We want the wealth gap we have to be stopped, and we want to start discussing how to give content to life. The Christian People's Party believes that happiness is not linked to prosperity but to quality of life. The Christian People's Party programme statement has also today been that the environmental struggle will require both blood, sweat and tears of this house and of the Norwegian people. But I am convinced that that effort will provide quality of life for us as well as for future generations if we can stand the battle out, because then we will live in harmony with the earth that can give us of good life. The Christian People's Party programme statements have also been to all those who want this debate to be a debate just about cooperation here in the house. I record that some of the representatives of the government parties have had posts that have only concentrated on it. I've been wondering a little about what their software statements have been. But at least I can say that the Christian People's Party's heart beats best in the center, and more news is not to say about it. The Christian People's Party programme statements in this persuasion debate have also been about the fact that we want to commit ourselves to participate and create a good growth, especially for the most vulnerable children. Child protection, financial support for poor families with children, graduated payments in kindergarten and cash support are important measures to do so. The Christian People's Party has also said that we refuse to accept that the whole-day school exists for the children. No, it's for adults and for society. We want a school where it's quality and not quantity that's in force. And then we've had a program statement that we need a good and active business. Without business Norway stops. We have had a programme statement that we want to combat poverty at home and outside. We want this house to gather about a better age and commit to it. And finally, we have also had a programme statement about a promise for young people with mental disorders. With this programme statement, the Christian People's Party is going to do this year's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1491	I am sure that the happiness and quality of life in this House will mean that we will not go out the debate long tonight, but I would like to add some comments to a proposal that is on the table. Most of the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party are very clearly linked to budgetary issues, which we think we will have to take when they arrive. But in the case of proposal No. 3, it concerns a critical situation related to recent events in Burma. But it also has a longer story than that. In recent years, both the Thai and Malaysian authorities have repeatedly threatened to deport large groups of refugees from Burma back to Burma or to internalise them in severe refugee camps, unless freedom of movement and less ability to actively assist the opposition in Burma. Therefore, one of the reasons Norway has picked up several Burmese refugees in recent years, because if they were to be interned more severely in Thailand, it would be a major problem. At the same time, it's important that we don't pick everyone up, because then we're going to destroy a lot of the resistance work that's going on, not least for the minority population. It is important that we contribute to helping neighbouring countries in refugee crises, not just neighboring countries to Burma, but many other places, countries that take a disproportionate burden compared to what we do on refugee issues. It is also important, because it helps us to influence how people are treated. I myself have been meeting representatives of Thailand's government and trying to get them to realize that young people living in refugee camps, who are both second- and third-generation refugees there, must have an opportunity to take training outside the camps and an opportunity to move on. I think it would be sad if we were to vote on a proposal that is linked to supporting refugee work in the neighbouring country. At the same time, I think the government should have an opportunity to find a good way to fit in with this. Then my little prayer to the Party of Advancement – not only on behalf of the Right, but also on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left – is that the Party of Advancement can convert proposal No. 3 to a proposal for a recommendation. Then we get a proper assessment, and then we can follow up with the government. I think everyone in this room is concerned that, in the future, we are going to do something for those who are fleeing, and for those who remain in the country, do something for those oppositional and those who want democracy and other developments in Burma.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1502	I would also ask for the floor to give an explanation of vote related to the proposals put on the table at today's sitting. Then I would like to begin by saying that I have great sympathy for the post that Erna Solberg has now made. I think it was a very wise request from the representative of Solberg to join the Progress Party on Special Proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Usually, the government parties' attitude to instructions to their own government is that we do not vote for that. We are voting against that. But we are also very happy if the Progress Party makes proposal No. 3 to a proposal for a recommendation. The fact that we are voting against proposals that are an instruction to our own government does not always mean that we disagree with all the content of these proposals. Another example of this is to the extent that proposal No. 7, which is an area of concern under work in the Government. When this is designed like this, we will have to vote against it, but this is a work that the Government has actually started. So with this explanation, I say that the government parties are essentially in favour of all these proposals when they are shaped as instructional proposals. But we support the recommendation to make proposal No. 3 to a transmission proposal. If the Progress Party is also willing to do the same with proposal No. Seven, we think that would be wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1520	I have no problem complying with a request to convert proposal No. 3 to a transmission proposal. It's primarily because the most important thing is that not only the Storting, but also the Government has a strong focus on the very acute and dramatic situation of the Burmese people in Burma, and that through relatively simple action we can facilitate the conditions for them to have a slightly better life. Therefore, I would very much like to challenge the Prime Minister to say a few words about what the Government intends to do on the occasion of the case. I register that Hill-Marta Solberg also wants this to be transformed. In that case, it must mean that the government has some ambitions about the situation in Burma, and then we might be able to hear a few words from the Prime Minister about it. Then I also noticed that Hill-Marta Solberg asked that proposal No. 7 is converted into a transmission proposal. I am also willing to comply, based on what Hill-Marta Solberg said that this work is going on in the Government. And then I choose to believe her.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1528	Let me say a few words about Burma since the representative Siv Jensen, and also the representative Erna Solberg, took it up. Firstly, we fully share the views expressed here in the debate on the condemnation of violence and the demands for democracy in Burma. Firstly, in the case of refugees, Norway has already given some financial support to the opposition. We're working with the UN. The Secretary of State met with the UN Special Envoy in New York last week and discussed what Norway can do to support the UN work, including in relation to aid for refugees. Norway has the financial means to contribute. We are also in dialogue with the UN in relation to how we can possibly contribute to refugees. So we will take such a transmission proposal seriously and discuss it internally in the Government and with the relevant government councils and departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 105]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1545	The size should now go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1553	During the debate, Siv Jensen has tabled seven proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and they have been distributed in the Chamber. Proposals Nos. In the course of the debate, 3 and 7 have been converted into proposals for transmission, and the wording is amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1616	The President will propose that the address of His Majesty the King be annexed to the 152nd anniversary of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04-2.ana.ud85e1629	There is no record.
