ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the European Union Tactical Groups (EUTS) or Battlegroups are joint multinational rapid reaction forces capable of carrying out military interventions within the framework of the European Union's common security and defence policy. These groups must, in principle, enable the Union to react with appropriate military means to a crisis situation beyond its borders. However, this laudable process has never been used for its original purpose and is mainly used for joint exercises. Mr Minister, why has the European Union never used this mechanism, even though it could have done so in several states in conflict? Is a review of the mechanism planned? If so, what are the major proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u2	Ms Jadin, the issue of employment and deployment of EBGs has been under discussion for many years. The lack of political will and some funding disagreements are generally noted as the greatest obstacles to such deployments. However, the pressure to engage the EBGs is increasing considerably, notably following the signing of an agreement on permanent structured cooperation (PESCO), one of which calls on the Member States of the European Union to participate more and more substantially in favour of these groups. On the other hand, the review of the Athena financing mechanism – which includes the extension of the common cost base to reduce the financial burden for Member States deploying an EBG – has not yet seen a positive outcome. Other conditions must also be met in order to be able to move to an operational undertaking, such as the legal legitimacy of the undertaking, the need for a well-prepared and made available EGG by the Member States and the willingness to engage them within the prescribed time limit. The necessary strategic deployment capacity and the equitable sharing of costs and risks are in addition to the barriers identified. Despite the difficulties preventing the effective deployment of EBGs, we cannot deny their potential effectiveness as transformative tools and vectors for international cooperation and interoperability. In general, we support European initiatives to facilitate the engagement of EBGs. In this way, Belgian Defence regularly contributes to these tactical groups, which it took command of in 2009 and 2014. It will again play this role for the Benelux Battlegroup in the second half of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u3	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Like you, I note that, unfortunately, there are many obstacles to making this very useful instrument more effective. Let us continue to make efforts, especially as we want to strengthen ourselves in terms of European Defence! This is a tool that we have and that we could reactivate!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u4	Minister, as early as 1999, the European Union committed itself to establishing a European rapid reaction force dedicated to peacekeeping and crisis management operations. Following the definition of the so-called "Petersberg Missions", comprising humanitarian and evacuation missions, peacekeeping missions and combat force missions for crisis management, Member States decided, as early as 2000, to provide the European Union with non-military operational instruments for crisis management. For example, civilian capabilities have been developed under the CSDP to contribute to crisis management, peacekeeping, conflict prevention, stabilization and reconstruction operations. These operations usually involve police officers, magistrates and other civilian officers, usually seconded by Member States. They also include military and gendarmes deployed under civilian status. Minister, on what occasions have such missions been deployed? What are the most recent? What is the current situation of this mechanism? Is it still relevant or does it require a revision? What is the procedure used by Belgium to find volunteers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u5	Dear colleague, originally, CSDP missions had a military rather than a civilian vocation. Since 2003, some 35 missions have been undertaken and 17 are still under way, of which 13 are exclusively civilian. These missions can, without being exhaustive, be deployed to train police forces – for example the Palestinian territories –, to monitor ceasefire agreements – for example, in Georgia – or to promote the rule of law and support the police forces, as in Kosovo. Among the most recent civilian missions are the EUCAP Sahel Mali missions in 2014 and EUCAP Sahel Niger in 2012, aiming at an integrated approach of the various security services and respectful of human rights; as well as the EUBAM mission in Moldova and Ukraine in 2014 aimed at harmonising border and customs relations between Ukraine and Moldova. The decision to deploy and monitor missions is the responsibility of the Member States on the occasion of the Foreign Affairs Council. This is the result of a process in which the Political and Security Committee (PSC) of the European Union provides guidance and receives recommendations from the Military Committee of the European Union and the Committee on Civilian Aspects of Crisis Management. The PSC exercises political control and strategic direction of crisis management operations. The mechanism is a compromise between the need for operational planning and consensus between Member States, on the one hand, and the relative speed of deployment, on the other. While suitable for the deployment of civilian missions, this decision-making mechanism demonstrates its limitations for military deployments, which require early planning and faster decision-making. The recruitment and appointment of experts for civilian missions is coordinated by the FPS Foreign Affairs. When military personnel wish to participate in civilian missions, they can either be made available and are then placed out of frame and out of Defence budget, or opt for a temporary withdrawal of employment for personal convenience. The law on this subject has just been adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u6	Minister, the question of military deployment has increased over the last decade. The number of average working hours required for military performance is increasing. The problem is that, on the one hand, the military have a flat-rate calculation of the 'normal service' of the 24-hour 'casual permanents', in 'intensive service', in 'operational deployment', in'military assistance' and 'aid' with a limited supplement in financial and time, without taking into account overtime during the night or evening. On the other hand, soldiers also have an indefinite maximum achievement. In addition, Defence faces particular challenges in terms of personnel. The military quota for 2018 was set at 29 225 soldiers. The Minister's Strategic Vision is leading the way to 25 000 soldiers by 2030. The questions are the following. What is the Minister's position on this problem? Can an evolution of the average deployment per military from 2007 to 2017 be outlined? Is the Minister prepared to amend the necessary legislation? If not, how does the Minister envisage addressing the problem? At present, the government is negotiating heavy-duty professions. What is the Minister's view on the classification of military as a heavy occupation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u7	Madam President, Mr Bogaert, the allowances are granted because of the specific nature of the tasks a soldier must carry out. The amount of this allowance shall not be calculated on the basis of the number of hours worked. The charge is made on a flat-rate basis because of the large number of very different tasks that the staff concerned must perform in very different circumstances during this period. A military person can face difficult working conditions over a certain period of time, with a very high intensity of very varied duration and limited or even extremely low comfort. But it is also possible that during the same period military duties of much lower intensity are carried out or that the military have shorter or longer periods of rest in function of the needs of the service. With regard to the average number of days per military who performed a performance in the context of permanences, exercises or operations, I suggest, given the number of figures I provide them to you, but I will also add them to the contract. Indeed, there is a significant increase in the average in 2016 and 2017. From around 50 days for 2016 to 60 days in 2016 and again almost 60 days in 2017, mainly due to the deployment of military forces in the context of Operation Vigilant Guardian and Operation Spring Guardian. In response to my question, the Defence Staff is currently examining various options to adjust the compensation for such activities. As regards the qualification of heavy occupation for the military, which is part of the pension reform and therefore not my competence, I refer to answers I have already given in the past. At that time I stated that in the criteria agreed for determining a heavy occupation, I recognize a number of criteria specific to the military profession, if not all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u8	Then I would like to receive the figure annex from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u9	Minister, since the date of the question, the situation has changed somewhat. Nevertheless, I still wanted to question you. The Red Cross, a tenant of part of the Belgrade Barracks site for two years, and therefore by extension the 300 refugees residing there, are expected to leave the site by 1 April 2018. In any case, it is the information that is published in the press. It indicated that your department, the owner of the site, had so decided. The idea is for the site to be sold in its entirety to the Provincial Economic Office (BEP), which wishes to create a park of economic activities for SMEs. According to the information circulated, it appears that the Red Cross was not informed of the sale of the land, nor of the fact that it would have to leave the premises by 1 April. Therefore, Minister, has any instructions been issued that residents of this centre leave the site on April 1? Subsequently, a meeting was held with several actors around the table. The commune, the BEP but also, apparently, a representative of Fedasil and the Defence, were present. Do you confirm to me that such a meeting took place and that, as a result of it, it would have been indicated that the activity of the centre could continue under the same conditions and configuration as at present, at least for another year? It was also alleged that not all land would be sold at the same time or to the same potential purchaser and that the BEP would acquire only part of the land. For the rest, the land would only be available for sale in the course of 2019. One of the ways forward at this meeting would be for Fedasil to buy the buildings from the Defence to relocate the refugees there and continue the activities of the centre in Belgrade. Minister, do you confirm this information? Will the activities continue beyond April 1, 2018 and what will happen in 2019? In what time frame can we consider the activities undertaken at this centre in Belgrade, which houses 300 residents? A whole group of solidarity citizens has been set up with many activities around these residents. It is, in my opinion, a real added value for the City of Namur. To what extent, therefore, could we not maintain this centre and the reception organised in Namur around it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u10	Madam President, Mrs Grovonius, when Belgium and the whole of Europe were confronted with what was called the "asylum crisis" from the summer of 2015, Fedasil appealed, among other things, to the Defence, in order to be able to have temporary premises to accommodate a large number of refugees. The Defence has, to the extent of its potential, provided its assistance. By the end of 2015, there were 15 military sites with nearly 8,500 asylum-seekers. Since then, the number of accommodation has been reduced. In addition to the three permanent military sites, namely Florennes, Bierset and Neder-Over-Heembeek, there are still five temporary sites in use, including Belgrade. From the outset, Defence reported to Fedasil that the areas that are no longer in use have been transferred to the Domain Administration for disposal and that there is a risk that the new owner will not accept the presence of asylum seekers. There was a first case in Sijsele, near Bruges, where the Defence had to ask Fedasil to leave the premises because of the sale of the neighborhood, which happened without problems. There is now the case of the Belgrade barracks. The area of Belgrade is subdivided into three lots. The latter were transferred to the Administration of the Domains, for sale in two phases. A batch is used by the Defense until the end of 2018. This lot will only be sold from January 2019. There are only two buildings on this lot, one of which is already occupied by the Red Cross. An amicable sale or expropriation, when it comes to an authority, usually takes several years. It was the Red Cross that noticed the signs of the city of Namur last September during the city's public inquiry into the establishment of an economic activity area in Belgrade. My collaborators contacted the Economic Office of Namur province, which confirmed in early October 2017 that it intended to obtain the authorization for expropriation by spring 2018. The Defence therefore asked Fedasil to take this into account. The communication that took place a few weeks ago was a reminder after the BEP repeated, on 23 January, to be precise, that the timing of the expropriation authorization was still relevant. In concrete terms, if the BEP considers that the evacuation of the centre does not press, it is not the Defence that will request this evacuation. The Defence does not need the land that is in question, but the Red Cross and Fedasil interlocutor and, above all, the acquirer of the land, namely the BEP. According to the latest information available to me, a local agreement would have been reached to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u11	Mr Minister, a local agreement on this issue does indeed seem to have been reached in the short term. In 2019, could the portion of land that will not be purchased by the Economic Office of Namur Province be acquired by Fedasil to allow it to continue its business? I was hoping to obtain confirmation of this question. I understand that you do not object, but you cannot tell us more about the future of this land. I will come back to you again or address Minister Theo Francken for an update on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u12	Minister, the War Heritage lnstitute, now the umbrella agency of the MRA, would have decided, in order to carry out the project of renovation and redeployment of the museum, to move the hundred aircraft currently flying in the Air Hall. This move should only be temporary, but the past example of the collection of tanks, scattered between Bastogne and Brasschaat, obviously worries my group. It also appears that all civilian aircraft and aircraft not related to the military history of Belgium would then be shipped elsewhere. These fears are all the more justified because Belgium, which does not have another aviation museum, would have no other place to display these often valuable aircraft. You are also aware that if, during the move, these aircraft remain on Flemish soil for more than four years, for example, the Topstukken decree will require the agreement of the Flemish government to reposition these aircraft. In the context of this work, which is certainly necessary, it is therefore a matter of having a long-term reflection to avoid dismembering the MRA on its historic Brussels site, especially when one knows that a large part of the museum's visitors come there primarily for the impressive Air Hall and its unique collection in the Kingdom. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. If these aircraft are actually moved, where will they be stored during the duration of the work? What will be the timetable for this work? Who's gonna pay for this move? What will be the future of this air collection and what do you intend to do with aircraft not linked to Belgian or even European or global military history? Finally, have other scenarios been considered that would allow the Royal Army Museum to be renovated without moving all of the aircraft?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u13	Minister, the Air Section of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History, located in the Grand Hall of the Cinquantenaire, attracts a lot of visitors every year. Most of them come here to admire this exceptional collection of civilian and military aircraft. In order to sustain this beautiful testimony of the history of aviation, a project to redeploy the site of the Cinquantenaire is led by the management of War Heritage Institute (WHI). As you have indicated in response to one of my previous parliamentary questions, this project will be carried out in successive phases, taking into account the limited means of carrying out the scope of the task. This plan should require the temporary relocation of aircraft from the Grand Air Hall. As you may know, this move raises some concerns within the institution. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you confirm that the redeployment project will require the relocation and storage of the aircraft that make up the Air Hall? Are there no other alternatives to this work without moving the entire collection and without the temporary closure of this section? Finally, some expressed concerns about the fate of the collection after a move. The director of the WHI was reassuring in refuting any plans to reorganize the Air Hall. Can you confirm these statements? Can you add anything else about the future of this aircraft collection?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u14	Colleagues, no decision has been made regarding the relocation of aircraft held in the Air Hall. At this stage, a comprehensive site redevelopment and upgrade plan for the entire ARM is under consideration. The aim is to make the MRA a state-of-the-art international museum, as set out in the explanatory memorandum of the law of 28 April 2017 on the establishment of the War Heritage Institute. Those who go to the Army Museum can see that some structures in the buildings are in poor condition, which is of a nature, if nothing changes, to cause irremediable damage to the pieces of collection exposed to them. In the event that we manage to achieve what has not been done for a long time, namely to invest significantly again in the Army Museum, large-scale work should take place in the museum and especially in Air Hall. In this case, it seems to me totally irresponsible to work by leaving in place the collection of aircraft of invaluable value that is currently there. Various assumptions about the temporary storage project in this collection are currently under consideration, but it is premature to move one track forward rather than another because the project is only at an embryonic stage. The study must first be able to be refined and this must be done in complete serenity and without a trial of intent. However, we already know that, taking into account the lack of previous investments, this will be a costly project and that the necessary means will have to be found, otherwise the museum may die from its beautiful death. And it will not have been for lack of having tried to revive it in the general interest of our society and, more particularly, in the transmission of our democratic values. So the choice is yours: to persevere in your trial of intention or to accompany the project with a view to a large-scale MRA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u15	Mr. Minister, I'm not bringing you a lawsuit of intent. Moreover, I had indicated in my question that the work was necessary. I therefore share your concern. Do you have a timing for the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u16	We are preparing the call for tenders to find partners in the implementation of the project. I hope we can launch it at the beginning of next year. It will be something unedited in Belgium. We know the Dutch and German examples, but this will be very new for us. It is therefore appropriate to be careful, but I hope that the procedure can begin before I leave my post as Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u17	Mr Minister, thank you very much. So I'll keep an eye on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u18	Minister, you say this museum is in bad condition. I've been there several times. That's the least we can say. You're talking about the different storage assumptions that are under consideration. I'll allow myself to come back to you later. In particular, I read that moving a plane amounted to 25,000 euros. Just moving and storing will represent a famous budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u19	What do you think it will take as an investment to restore the museum to good condition?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u20	In my opinion, it will cost about forty or fifty million. It won't be much, but it's still important. I insist that this museum be handed over as soon as possible and in the best conditions in good order because it is one of the great attractions that Brussels needs for its tourism. I think it's the third museum in the world for the aircraft collection. It's really worth putting it back in order and in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic851x.u21	Colleagues, the Minister, who has stayed longer than announced, must now leave the sitting.
