ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, you will have read the question that I have tabled. We had a good discussion with Secretary of State De Backer about the Data Protection Authority. It is a project which has evolved in committee and which we have been able to vote almost unanimously. In the course of these discussions, a discussion took place about the police force in order to determine whether or not they would be dependent on this Data Protection Authority. The Secretary of State replied that no, because it emerged from a discussion within the government that you preferred to have a specific body, even to adapt the tasks of the COC (Police Information Review Body). The European regulation will apply on 25 May, so this issue is becoming extremely urgent. Could you tell us where you are? Indeed, a whole range of competences must be adapted to facilitate complaints, to issue opinions, to impose corrective measures, to deal with requests for indirect access to files, etc., all of which are very important to citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u2	Mr. Chair, Ms.Onkelinx, all the comments that the OPC (Privacy Commission) had made at the time were incorporated into the new "Privacy" bill of colleague De Backer. This was discussed last Friday in the Council of Ministers. The opinion of the Privacy Commission and the Council of State will be sought. As you know, the GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) directive comes into force from 25 May. It should be recalled that the OPC was in favour of transforming the COC into a fully-fledged data protection authority. This project incorporates all the guarantees, so that the COC becomes a fully-fledged data protection authority, which has been slightly modified in its composition for this reason, with a view to providing for a steering committee with 3 members, including 2 magistrates, and an investigation unit under the aegis of the Management Committee where police officers sit in order to better meet the independence requirements imposed by the GDPR and the Directive. The COC will have to deal with complaints, in particular with regard to indirect access to files, formulate opinions, impose corrective measures, such as temporarily stopping or suspending a data flow, giving a warning, etc. It will also have a general outreach mission to the general public.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u3	Will the means of the COC therefore be adapted, increased? Will these be new means or will they come from another forum?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u4	The means will be increased. We will provide the necessary resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u5	It'll be at your house or at Mr. Backer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u6	At M's. Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 24104 was postponed. Mr Kir's combined questions Nos 24159 and 24160 are converted into a written question. I see that Mr Dallemagne is here for his question No. 24355, but that question is dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. So I refer him to that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u9	Minister, last October, you announced the establishment of a tool called MISI, designed to record acts of violence by and against police officers. You also announced that this tool would, in the medium term, provide statistical elements in the field, stating that the first returns would probably be available in the first quarter of 2018. At the end of the first quarter, can you tell us more? Has the tool actually been implemented? Has an initial evaluation been conducted? How is it actually used by the services? Are the data intended to be available also for organisations outside the police (Committee P, civil society, etc.)?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u10	Ms Ben Hamou, as part of the MISI (mededeling van incident/signalling incidents) project, a user-friendly recording system was developed in July 2017 within the ISLP application which allows, on the basis of the minutes, to record violence by and against the police. This registration system is intended to provide general statistics and qualitative and quantitative analyses by IPM 62 partners (DAO, CGWB, AIG and DRP (ANPA) Violence Control). Requests may also be generated by the unit or police area to compile statistics within that unit or zone. The easy-to-use registration system resulted in the creation of three additional headings in ISLP (the program used to write VPs). These three additional headings are: violence against the police, violence by the legal police and theft or loss of police equipment. The mentioned entries are checked automatically and/or manually. When the fact itself has nothing to do with acts of violence but it is a matter of violence in the body of the PV, the headings can be checked or completed manually. Correct recording of acts of violence committed against and by the police depends on correct coding. The relevant data from the closed minutes shall be transmitted to DRI. They converge towards an Excel file so that the partners referred to in IPM 62 can carry out qualitative and quantitative analyses. The general statistics will, within 2 weeks, be available via sharepoint by all members of the GPI. Currently, DRI does not yet have all the evaluations on the operation of the MISI tool of the GPI 62 partners in this project. The final assessment of CGWB is expected by the end of April. As soon as we have this information, an analysis will be carried out. On this basis, we will decide whether to extend or improve this registration system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. So this system is used by all the police services in the country? Is it not a project that is developed by a single area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u12	No, no, it's widespread. This is an adaptation of the ISLP system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u13	Already applicable. Will we be able to obtain the results of this evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u14	Yeah, when they're available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u15	At the end of April.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u16	Well, then you'll ask me a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u17	You did not reply with regard to the access of bodies outside the police, such as the P Committee, to these files. I suppose they'll be able to access it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u18	Yes, of course, since they are control bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u19	Minister, as we know and we can be pleased with it, the OCAM has reduced its assessment of the overall level of the threat to level 2 out of 4. This decision de facto results in the exit of the system deployed since the attacks to which our country has been subjected, according to which military personnel carry out security and police support missions in our territory. We know that this device will not be released overnight. That must not prevent us from preparing for the future. Indeed, there is no hesitation in saying that this deployment of military personnel was also intended to replace an almost structural understaffing in a number of police areas. With their withdrawal, and since the deployment period has not been used to catch up with this human resources deficit within the police, the missions that had been delegated to them return to the police and make the understaffing all the more shocking. In order to object to this situation, I would like to ask you the following questions. In areas where military personnel were deployed under Operation Vigilant Guardian, what was the situation of the police at the time of the deployment decision? What was it, compared to the framework? So far, in those same areas, what is the staffing situation? How is it compared to the framework? How much is the cost of the operation charged to your budget to date? How much will it amount to when the military operation is complete? What missions now go back to the local police? How are additional staffing needs assessed to meet them? What are the ways out of your budget to enable the areas to mobilise them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u20	Mrs Ben Hamou, given the delay between the tabling of your question and the committee, I do not have all the data. I will answer what I can answer and, for the rest, I propose to turn your question into a written question. We'll provide you with all the data. The information you request is not centralized. It belongs to the different areas and we must ask them to do so. However, I can tell you that of the fourteen local police areas that have received this support since 2015, military personnel are still present in four local police areas. It was planned and operational in fourteen areas, but this is now only the case in four areas. These are Brussels-Ixelles-Capitale, the Marlow area (Uccle-Watermael Boitsfort-Auderghem), Midi and Antwerp. At the level of the Federal Police, the Brussels-National Aviation Police and Gosselies, as well as the Brussels Railway Police, are still receiving support from the Defence. Your third question was about the cost of this operation. The Department of the Interior received in 2015, following the attacks in Paris and the lockdown, a provision of 17.19 million euros to pay the soldiers affected in the streets. This amount was spent to the tune of EUR 17.14 million. Starting in 2016, the Budget Department provided the credit directly to the Defence Department. Since 2016, it is no longer on my budget and the interior has no longer been affected by the expenses associated with the presence of the military on the streets. Finally, I come to your fourth question. It seems to me important to recall that the deployment of military personnel, if it actually reinforces the work of police officers in the field, does not replace traditional police missions. These are primarily, as you know, security support and surveillance missions dealing with issues that the authorities have considered critical and sensitive to the safety of our citizens and, overall, that of our society. And this, in this particular context of threat of attack. Therefore, upon the return to a so-called "normal" situation, the police services will return to full exercise of their primary function.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. In fact, this is the problem: when we return to this normal situation, it will be the police officers who will have to carry out these monitoring missions. Let us simply take the case of PolBru, for example. With today's understaffing, it is well known that military support is an aid in these surveillances, for example at the embassy level. Given the lack of staff, the missions that will be added to the work of the police areas, and also the lack of staff that you know very well because, just this year, you have only hired 800 aspirants inspectors, we will find ourselves with a problem. Have you thought, perhaps, that these missions should be taken over by the DAB, for example, in terms of monitoring?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u22	I do not agree at all with your analysis. The tasks performed by the military are additional tasks related to level 3 of the threat. They will therefore disappear as soon as we are no longer at this level. They should therefore not be replaced by police, unless the police areas consider it necessary. This choice of capacity utilization is theirs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u23	Minister, I will analyze your answers and come back to you with other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u24	Questions Nos 24209, 24223 and 24224 by Mr Vanden Burre have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Poncelet's 24325 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u25	Mr President, Minister, you are aware of the difficult situation of the road police, which suffers from a shortage of staff, and which implies the need for urgent recruitment. You therefore understand that the information published in the press a short time ago, where it was learned that more than half of the candidates failed the aptitude tests, has given rise to many questions. The testimonies gathered from the police officers in charge of recruitment speak of an extremely high failure rate, citing the Brabant where there are 32 failures out of 58! No figures have been published for the province of Hainaut where the shortage of staff is high. But if the estimates are comparable to those of the Brabant, it goes without saying that the 83 commitments announced at the beginning of the year will take a long time to realize. Among the causes cited to explain these failures, police officers denounce the unobvious conditions in which aptitude tests are carried out, targeting the use of motorcycles that are too old and monitors that are too often absent. They also question the level of training given by the National Police Academy. Minister, how do you explain this failure rate in the selection tests? How do you intend to remedy this? Is a review of the training and selection procedure envisaged? If so, will the training given within the National Police Academy be reorganised? Finally, could you give me the figures on the success rate in the province of Hainaut?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u26	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the jobs of road police motorcyclists are considered to be specialized and the requirements for access to them are high, particularly in the selection tests to which the candidates are subjected in advance. Indeed, these jobs require a number of very specific skills in order to be exercised both effectively and in safety conditions which cannot be ignored. This level of requirement largely explains the failure rate encountered. The use of too old motorcycles that you refer to is not a convincing explanation for a candidate's failure. Motorcycles are subject to regular maintenance. If, during a test or exercise, they have any defect, they are immediately repaired or replaced. I would add that during the tests, a specialist monitor must be present. It seems to me appropriate that candidates be more sensitized and aware of the degree of requirement required to meet the pre-qualification tests. In this regard, it is up to me from the specialized instructors who supervise these tests that some candidates are much better informed and prepared than others. I would remind you that it is always open to candidates to obtain more information and clarification from the road police. Apart from the fact that the failures are not due to outdated motorcycles, I can report that the federal police also took the initiative to acquire new motorcycles in the course of 2019. To be well understood, I must emphasize the great difference that exists between the pre-qualification tests to which candidates are subjected and the specialized functional training in which they then participate if they have met these tests. The success of these tests is therefore, above all, conditioned by the candidate's initial abilities and the way in which he or she has been informed and prepared to meet the required requirements. Apart from ensuring that candidates are better informed and prepared for the conduct of aptitude tests and training, there is no substantial change in the agenda at this level. I have no objective reason to question the quality of the training given within the National Police Academy and the levels of skills and abilities that it allows the participants to achieve. Finally, in the last mobility event in 2017 and for the entire road police management, the success rate of the motorcycle aptitude tests is 70%. It is 55% for auto aptitude tests. For the province of Hainaut, the pass rate for auto aptitude tests is 67%. The final test was scheduled for March 16, 2018, which included three candidates. There is no open motorcycle use for the Hainaut road police. So there was no motorcycle aptitude test.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u27	Minister, thank you for these detailed explanations. There is a dire need for staff, particularly in the province of Hainaut, for this particular police service. Finally, few people pass the exam. Is there a lack of attractiveness of the job or is the organization of the exam problematic? These are the questions I ask myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u28	Rather, it is related to the poor preparation of the candidates. I do not think that is your point, but we are not considering lowering the standards. We find that some candidates are well prepared and others think they can pass the tests because they know how to drive a motorcycle. It's a lack of preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament 24355 by Mr Dallemagne will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Debates of the European Parliament 24379 by Mr Degroote will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u30	Mr President, Minister, on the Internet we find videos of associations carrying out surveillance and security orders without being authorised to do so. However, in order to be able to carry out surveillance orders, such permits are needed. In addition, the same associations express violent messages. Since the violence of groups such as VMO and Front de la Jeunesse in the 1980s, such practices have been prohibited. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. As Minister of the Interior, you are responsible for taking preventive action to avoid street violence. Will you start an investigation on this if you have any such videos? Will you remind the organisations concerned of the legal rules to which they must comply? Will you act if this is not the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u31	Mr President, Mr Top, any company or service that offers or performs surveillance activities can be controlled by my services. The Control Directorate for Private Security may, in the context of its checks, draw up CVs against both legal persons and natural persons who offer or exercise surveillance activities without prior authorisation. The management acts on the basis of complaints or various other sources. The law of 2 October 2017 also provides a very strict framework for the monitoring activities and strict personal conditions apply. Physical or verbal violence, racism and calls for hatred are, of course, incompatible with the pursuit of activities in this sector. Without having watched the films and without knowing more details about the situation, it cannot be excluded that this is not about surveillance activities but about actions by private militias. In this respect, the Law of 29 July 1934 prohibits any private militia or any other organisation of private persons whose purpose is to use force or replace the army or the police from taking such action or acting in their place. The organisation of private militias is a criminal offence which falls within the competence of the police forces and the judicial order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u32	Thank you for your overview of the legislation in response to my second question. It can't be strange for you and your services that such videos exist. I would like to insist on proper control, regardless of the organisation involved, both on the legislation on private surveillance and on the law of 29 July 1934 on private militias.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u33	Minister, the control of nuclear power plants is currently a national competence. In Belgium, most of these controls are managed by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN). However, cooperation exists for the control of nuclear installations in Europe. As an example, the dialogue between our country and Germany on energy issues is now more developed than before because of the remarks made by some actors on the safety of our power plants. For example, an inter-ministerial agreement on the exchange of information and experience and cooperation on nuclear safety and radiation protection was concluded in 2016. This includes bilateral inspections of nuclear facilities, which take place at regular intervals between our two countries. The question therefore arises as to whether such cooperation, with regard to the controls of our nuclear power plants, could extend or even formalise at European level. Does your Government consider it appropriate to bring the discussion on mutual control of power plants to the European level, and therefore the establishment of a European Agency for Nuclear Control?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u34	Mrs Jadin, in your question, you refer to the dialogue between Belgium and Germany on energy issues. Please be aware that this falls within the competence of my colleague Mrs Marghem. Indeed, international cooperation exists at several levels. At the bilateral level, Belgium, through the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, maintains professional relations with its Dutch, German, Luxembourg, French and Swiss counterparts. In addition to these bilateral relations, cooperation exists at multilateral level where, within a European framework, nuclear regulators cooperate closely on a voluntary basis on any issue of nuclear security and safety. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency is thus active in international organizations and bodies relating to the supervision of nuclear safety and security. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is an intergovernmental organization established by the United Nations General Assembly to promote the safe and peaceful use of nuclear technology and research in this field. The Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA) is an intergovernmental body that facilitates cooperation between countries with advanced nuclear technological infrastructures in order to promote excellence in nuclear safety. The NEA is part of the Organisation for Economic Development Cooperation. ENSREG (European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group) is an advisory group of the European Commission, composed of experts from the national authorities responsible for nuclear safety, radioactive waste safety or radio protection, as well as senior officials in these fields from the 28 members of the European Union, and representatives of the European Commission. ENSREG's role is to help establish the conditions for continuous improvement and to achieve a common understanding in the fields of nuclear safety and radioactive waste management. Wenra (Western European Nuclear Regulators Association) is a non-governmental organization established by the nuclear regulators of Germany, Belgium, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. WENRA is a network designed to develop a common approach to nuclear safety, including regulation, within the European Union, and to exchange experience on any significant nuclear safety issues. Finally, there is the HERCA (Heads of the European Radiological Protection Competent Authorities), which is an association of European radiation protection authorities, at the initiative of the French Nuclear Safety Authority. It is a voluntary association of nuclear safety authorities in Europe. They exchange knowledge and experience in order to provide practical and harmonised solutions for a high level of radiation protection in Europe. The European Association of Competent Authorities (EACA) is a European association of competent authorities for the transport of radioactive materials, set up at the initiative of the United Kingdom and France. It is an association open to all European authorities responsible for the safety of the transport of radioactive material. Its members are developing a common and harmonised approach in order to promote a high level of safety in the transport of radioactive materials in Europe. Let us also talk about the European Nuclear Security Regulators Association (ENSRA), whose main objective is the exchange of information and good practices between Member States on the physical protection of nuclear power plants in order to promote a high level of nuclear safety. There are, therefore, already many European fora for nuclear safety and security cooperation. In addition, many of our regulations in this area come from the transposition of Euratom directives. As I have shown in recent years, I am open to close cooperation with our neighbours and other countries. However, the amendment of the Euratom Treaty does not fall within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u35	That's right, Minister. I thank you for taking the trouble of listing all the existing institutions and cooperation agreements, which I have not even bothered to count, but you tell me that there are seven. That's obviously very reassuring. On the other hand, I am somewhat concerned by the lack of knowledge of some, and I repeat, of the existence of these protocols aimed at strengthening mutual controls in terms of the transport of nuclear materials and the safety of our plants. Indeed, some feed an almost hysterical fear about it. It is obviously very healthy to know that these practices are being implemented in our territory. I understand that the transposition of the directive on the amendment of the Euratom Treaty must be done on the right floor. I hope that those who consider it necessary will take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u36	How is that said in German, Mrs Jadin? Diese Angelegenheit ist abgeschlossen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u37	Diese Vorfall ist abgeschlossen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u38	As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, I am preparing for the future when we will be able to use the three national languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u39	Mr Minister, at the committee meeting of 7 March 2018, you raised my question No. 24118 on the remuneration of the transfer time from the barracks to the place of training for ambulance volunteers replied that it would no longer be a subject of service for the voluntary staff by the repair KBs. I quote: "Until the publication of the repair KBs, this analogy also applied for the journey time from the barracks to the training centre. However, at the request of the relief zones, this analogy was abandoned. On the one hand, because the zones found that the number of hours of movement was so heavy in the maximum quota of hours that a volunteer may perform per year. This was equivalent to 52 times 24 hours, or 1 248 hours. On the other hand, because the zones were of the opinion that a performance hour fee for an hour's travel time was disproportionate. I have shown understanding for this reasoning and have tested them out at the voluntary organizations. On the basis of their opinion, the proposal of the zones was amended." For the sake of completeness, you added that this will also apply to firefighters-volunteers. Mr Minister, on what consultation with the zones was this proposal that the relocation time should no longer be regarded as duty time by the zones requested or advised positively? Which areas were in favour of this? Were there areas that weren't in favour of this? If so, why? Can I see the reports of this consultation? Which voluntary organizations did you test this proposal with? What exactly was their advice? When did they deliver this? Can I get these advices, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u40	Mr President, Mr Top, the KBs have been repaired because comments have been made on the existing administrative status of operational fire and ambulance personnel in the areas of assistance. Those sighs were transmitted orally to my staff, including during the monthly consultations of the zone commanders, on which draft texts are discussed. The main or frequent comments were collected and based on this a first draft was prepared in October 2016, which was discussed in several rounds with the different stakeholders. The question of not considering relocation hours as working time was raised by several zones, although I do not know how many and which areas were for or against. The repair KBs were discussed several times fully with the Association of Flemish Fire Weather Volunteers (VVB) and the Association des Pompiers Volontaires Francophones et Germanophones de Belgique (APV). The FVO gave its agreement on 18 August 2017 provided that it was guaranteed that the expenses could be reimbursed. On 25 August 2017, the APV announced that it considered that the design caused discrimination between professional staff and voluntary staff. In the further negotiations on the draft, this was no longer a breaking point. You can receive the relevant advice. We will send you the advice by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I ask this question again to have more information on the basis of the adjustment. On the one hand, I can understand the concern because it counts in the maximum quota. On the other hand, I should like to refer to the point made by the APV, namely the discrimination between voluntary staff and professional staff, where the volunteers are not rewarded or rewarded in the same way for what is on the other hand. I would also like to repeat a comment that has already been raised in this committee on several questions. The function of firefighter volunteers already requires many sacrifices of free time. In the case of training, interventions or exercises, it is true that there is a compensation for this; I understand that this answer is given. However, there are a lot of sacrifices involved. I still fear that the pressure will be so great that the influx of new candidate firefighters will dry up. This will have a huge repercussion on the financial situation of the fire zones, particularly for the fire zones that employ a lot of volunteers. I will not claim that areas with many voluntary firefighters in service are the most severely punished, but those areas will be the most difficult to attract new firefighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic853x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte's 24432 was postponed. Questions Nos 24436, 24437, 24438, 24439, 24440, 24441, 24443, 24476 and 24477 by Mr Nollet are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Mathot's 24451 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 24502 has been postponed. Questions Nos 24548, 24549 and 24550 by Mr Kir were postponed. That concludes the agenda because there were fewer Members present in this Chamber than usual.
