ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, you know the sensitivities. The departments of the protocol determine the ranking of the dignitaries in this country and the representatives of the Länder always come after their federal colleagues. Now, after six state reforms, the weight of powers is increasing among the Communities and the Regions, the Länder want to see the order of precedence adjusted. Minister Jambon made himself strong that he would put that in order by the 2015 National Holiday, i.e. on 21 July 2015. In the meantime, I have asked him very regularly about the state of affairs, but each time he moves the deadline a little bit. Now he can't even pin himself on a date. Last week a resolution on Flanders' international strategy in Europe and the world was adopted in the Flemish Parliament. In the first point of this resolution, the Flemish Parliament calls on the Flemish Government to urge the federal government and the other Länder to update the obsolete protocol list in the short term so that Flemish diplomacy and government members of the Länder are properly placed on the foreign forum. The resolution was adopted unanimously. In view of the fact that this is so important in the Flemish Parliament, I asked Minister Jambon again yesterday about the state of affairs. Now he says this file belongs to you. After years of bullying me, he is now telling you to take the initiative in this matter. Hence my questions to you, Prime Minister. In the meantime, is there finally a federal government position on protocol order? Are there any bottlenecks? If so, can you clarify which one? I have put these questions to Minister Jambon over and over again, but I was never allowed to get an answer to them. Hopefully that will be the case now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Pas, I always appreciate the encouragement of the protocol order. In fact, as you know, there is nothing in our coalition agreement three years ago. It is correct that the Minister of the Interior has taken the initiative to set up a working group in this area, to consider whether initiatives should be taken in this area after the sixth state reform. In April 2017, the Flemish Government submitted a memo to the Consultation Committee in relation to the protocol order. The Consultation Committee has only taken note of the note. Consequently, I can only reply that I have not so far established a consensus in this respect. We will see whether or not a consensus can be reached in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u4	Mrs Pas, I give you the floor to reply for one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u5	Prime Minister, it is beginning to become a habit in this government for you to have to pull the files to get them moving, but after hearing you, I fear that this time it will not be the case. That there is no consensus, that I have heard from Minister Jambon for four years, but we do not know exactly what the sensitivities are. I realize that in these times of Community stagnation there are worse things than the symbolic protocol order, which undermines the Flemings, but it is significant that even such a thing is not settled. Every state parliament in this country thinks it's important. It is not often that the other Länder share the opinion of Flanders. It has taken you almost four years to reach a position and reach a consensus. This government does not even keep the Flemish Government informed of the state of play in this dossier. The road to consensus must be sought mainly in your own party, Prime Minister. Minister Reynders' response to this file says everything. He said: "Maybe we should discuss this in the twelfth state reform." We have agreed in the federal government agreement not to change anything institutionally for five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen,'misery, misery, misery', it is a winged statement which some of us made yesterday following the start of the new year. At first I thought it was about the situation in Antwerp, but it turned out to be about our labour market. According to the authors of that ruling, the government has not succeeded in creating sufficient new jobs. According to them, these new jobs are still very precarious and uncertain flexi-jobs. Of course, it is up to an opposition to be critical, but the question is how far one can go in denying sunlight before one becomes unbelievable. The objective figures of respectable institutions such as the Planning Bureau, the National Bank, as well as Eurostat at European level all point to strong job creation in the private sector, as many as 250 000 jobs more towards the end of this legislature. Moreover, a report by the High Employment Council shows that 60% of these new jobs are full-time and only 40% part-time. That's exactly the same ratio as before, especially for 50-plussers. Mr Prime Minister, do you think that your government has actually achieved concrete results in terms of job creation? Does some of the statements we have heard stem from ignorance or from flat political opportunism? In addition, it is crucial that creating new jobs goes hand in hand with completing those jobs. In particular, it is necessary to further modernise and flexibilise the labour market. Last week, you announced that you will take further initiatives with the government in the spring. Can you be more specific about these initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, not jobs, jobs, jobs, but misery, misery, misery, that was yesterday's message from Elio Di Rupo, Prime Minister, to the new year's drink of his party, the PS. Mr Spooren, I didn't think he was talking about Together or Separate, but about the state of his party. But no, our previous Prime Minister referred to the state of the country and the state of our labour market. According to Mr Di Rupo, his government created better and more jobs. He therefore denounced the so-called low-paid flexi-jobs of our government. What are the facts? During this legislature, 252 000 jobs will be added. A quarter of a million people find a new job, a quarter of a million families are allowed to greet a new job in their midst. That's 52 000 a year. In the period of the Di Rupo government there were 3 250. Di Rupo's red jobs were created mainly in the public sector. The blue jobs under the Michael administration are mainly created in the private sector. This is largely about full-time jobs and jobs that are completed for three fifths or four fifths, of their own free will, by people who choose to do so. Mr Di Rupo also misses the ball with regard to flexi-jobs. There are barely 1 280 flexi jobs in Brussels and Wallonia. How could these flexi jobs in the statistics explain job growth in those regions of the country? Colleagues, it may be clear: Pinocchio Di Rupo mirrored his supporters' lies, lies, lies. Di Rupo's words are only lies, lies and lies. Things have never been as good with the economy and job creation as they are now, compared to many previous years. Prime Minister, we will not rest on our laurels. What are you planning to do in the future to improve the efficacy level? What can we do at the federal level? What can we do together with the regions to take another step forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the year, I would like to refer here to the socio-economic situation in our country. Since the beginning of this mandate, the government has taken a series of steps to create growth and reinvigorate our country's economy. The various parameters that we have today show us that this policy is bearing fruit. At the employment level, 176,500 jobs have been created. Never has a government done so well. The outlook is excellent for 2018, as the National Bank speaks of 54,000 jobs, and the Institute for Economic and Social Research (IRES) of 59,000 jobs. All this makes it possible to strengthen our social security. There is also purchasing power, which has increased since the beginning of this mandate by about 100 euros for means and low wages; and businesses and SMEs that feel supported by this government, notably through the corporate tax reform (ISOC), voted at the end of 2017. This reform of ISOC will also bring additional resources to invest even more. Finally, I would like to mention the budget deficit, which has been divided by three since the beginning of this mandate. All these good economic results lead us to create wealth and well-being for the population. They also show the relevance of the solutions provided by this government. The group of the Reform Movement considers it essential to continue the road. The economic recovery is there, and we must certainly not stop the reforms. We must therefore continue to work for more purchasing power, more competitiveness, and further strengthen social security. I come to my questions. Prime Minister, could you tell us a little more about the investment pact? What are the government's major projects for 2018? How do you intend to further support our businesses and SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u9	Mr President, over the last three years, we have indeed taken a huge number of decisions with Parliament's support: more purchasing power for those who want to work, more competitiveness for businesses, more oxygen for the economy, a strong commitment to clean-up, with results. After all, we are convinced that job creation is the key to strong social cohesion. Indeed, like some members of the assembly, I was surprised to hear the words of my predecessor. I immediately thought that my predecessor might have become a big fan of the TV series FC De Champions: "miseries, misery, misery." However, he may also be talking about the situation in his own party. That could also be "misery, misery, misery." Or maybe he's talking about the situation in Bergen, his congregation. I don't know. This type of statement, on the part of a personality who has assumed the highest responsibilities, does not strengthen the credibility of its author.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u11	Mr President, can you ensure that the order of business is respected, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u13	I regret his absence. I regret his empty seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u15	Mr Laaouej, you do not have the floor. I ask you to respect the democratic rules of operation of this House, everyone speaking when he or she has the right to speak. Now the Prime Minister has the floor. I will ask everyone to focus on the content of the question and the appropriate answer to the question. As for how to manage the work, rest assured, I'll take care of it! You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u16	I understand the extreme embarrassment and the moment of embarrassment for the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u17	Prime Minister, I ask you to answer the questions, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u18	What are the results after three years? The deficit was divided by three. Under this government, businesses have created 176 000 jobs in three years. These are not forecasts. These are realities: 176 000 families are more sheltered from poverty or insecurity because they have obtained employment. We are totally convinced that when, for example, measures are implemented that now bring four times as many new independents as under the previous government, we are doing a useful job for social cohesion and the financing of social security. We are convinced that when the trade balance becomes more favourable and continues to grow, it is positive for the country and for social security. I see – this is a fact – that no one will be able to argue that the one who is learning about this is the one who led a government under which 25,000 jobs have disappeared in the private sector. He's in a bad position to do the lesson! "Miserie, miseries, miseries" are the results of your choices, of your policy, Mr. Laaouej!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is good to hear that you are once again highlighting what these results are. I believe that it is also important that we continue to strive for better job mobility and further modernisation of our labour law. The main problem facing us today on the labour market is no longer the high level of unemployment in recent years, but the fact that our companies find insufficient candidates for the many open vacancies. I would like to stress once again that these additional jobs are also and above all aimed at low-skilled young people, the long-term unemployed and newcomers. These are all vulnerable groups who, too often in the past, had to stand on the sidelines because of the high thresholds and rigidity of our labour market. The N-VA will therefore fully support you in the further reforms you intend to undertake this year. I would therefore like to draw your attention to a new legislative proposal that we have tabled today. This proposal combines flexibility with certainty through start-up lanes. It allows workers to temporarily change employers without fear of losing their jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, this was a very clear and clear answer to me. If we want less misery in the country and more prosperity for all parts of the country, this means, above all, that we must keep the direction of this government. Socio-economic reforms over the past three years must be continued. We must help those who are still out of business today and have not yet been able to reap the full benefits of the reforms. In Flanders, we mainly look at youth unemployment. There are young people who are still having a hard time. We must therefore focus on training. There are also elderly people who are praised by our wage system from the market. They sometimes have a hard time getting back to work. The major differences between the regions must be eliminated. The great difference between Flanders and Wallonia must be eliminated. This can only be achieved with an economic policy that welcomes investors and entrepreneurs in Wallonia, rather than driving them away from Wallonia with the extreme syndicalism of the PTB. That way you will never create jobs and you will always get more misery. We need the opposite: more blue recipes, more Michel!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for all these answers that put the subject in context. I also congratulate you on putting the opposition, which has only lies and forfanteries, to try to criticise the policy led by this government! As members of the Reform Movement, we can only wish you to continue this policy, which continues to drive our country on the path to growth and full employment. That's the most important thing. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u22	Minister, our sea is becoming more and more a plastic soup. By 2050 there will be more plastic than fish in our seas. A human being does not always think that something as simple as a plastic bag can have such a devastating effect on our environment. Europe wants to do something about this. Among other things, it calls for all plastic packaging to be recyclable by 2030 and for the use of disposable products as disposable cups and straws to be restricted. The Länder also make a fortune in preferably recyclable bags. Wallonia and Brussels have already banned plastic bags in the retail trade. Flanders is also thinking of this. The municipalities are also making efforts to address closing landfills. Recently, your colleague, Mr De Backer, argued in favour of giving fishermen waste bags when they go out to sea. That sounds nice in the media, but frankly it is rather a plaster on a plastic leg. More is really needed to tackle the plastic problem. Mr. Secretary, I think you're the right man for that. You can bring the producers together, you can help reduce packaging waste. You must intervene at the source and not wait for the plastic to accumulate in the sea. There are more recycling companies in our country than plastic waste prevention. That should change. A seahorse with a cotton stick in the tail is a bizarre image. A sea turtle strangled with plastic packaging is repulsive. We all eat fish with plastic more often. Say for yourself, a tomato shrimp with plastic shrimp is disgusting and far from healthy. That's gotta stop. Minister, do you intend to sit down with the sector in order to introduce a ban on disposable plastic and microplastics? What additional efforts can you make in the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u23	Mr Casier, I congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u24	Mr Casier, I would also like to congratulate you on your first question. Firstly, I fully share your concern. The impact of plastic waste on the environment is indeed enormous. Plastic packaging continues to pollute our environment for decades due to its long degradability. The impact on the animals is also disastrous. Secondly, waste policy is a regional competence. Thirdly, you have pointed out that the Walloon, Brussels and Flemish regions have already taken measures and ask what we can do at federal level. Our investigation has shown that the Federal Government, in this case the Minister for the Environment, has limited competence, namely in relation to product standards to promote sustainable patterns of production and consumption and to protect the environment. Other colleagues have already taken initiatives in this area. You referred to the Marine litter action plan, for which steps have been taken. I'm gonna get this straight. Firstly, you are right to express concern. Secondly, the regions are competent in this respect. Nevertheless, together with my federal colleague for the Environment, I will take an initiative to sit down with the responsible regional ministers for the Environment and all stakeholders. Hopefully, even if we do not have the powers legally, we will come to a regulation or a code of conduct to solve the problem in our common interest, especially in the interests of future generations and in the interests of the environment and animals, including fish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We think you'd better move a gear up. We believe that the problem should be tackled at source rather than yesterday. We would also like to urge you to sit with the sectors. After all, every piece of waste that can be avoided does not need to be recycled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u26	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 7.25 gross per delivery, without any social security coverage, without any insurance against accidents at work and without any minimum hourly wage. Here are the working conditions imposed on bike couriers in January 2018 in Belgium! So here are the working conditions imposed for the most part on young workers who have their first contact with the labour market, working life! So these are the working conditions imposed on them! Minister, is that really the model of sustainable job creation that we must encourage? Minister, is this really the vision of society that we must bequeath to our children here? For environmentalists, this is clearly unacceptable! When new platform projects push for the precariousness of employment, it is simply an economic and social regression. In our view, economic and technological innovations must be opportunities but they must be opportunities for society as a whole, to create added value for all our citizens and certainly not on the backs of workers and the quality of employment. Mr Minister, for these specific cases of abuse which I have just described, solutions exist in our law, in Belgian legislation. Indeed, why consider bike couriers Deliveroo differently from other couriers in other sectors of activity, with the same impacts, the same obligations in terms of employment contract and social protection? Moreover, the European Court of Justice does not say anything else. She made a stop in December on Uber, the transport platform. What's she saying? It says that Uber must be seen as a conventional transport company and not as a digital platform, which connects individuals. This means that obligations, in terms of employment contract and social protection, must also apply. Minister, what do you think about these new working conditions for the Deliveroo couriers? Do you think they are acceptable in the 21st century? Two Labour Inspectorate investigations...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u27	Mr Vanden Burre, you asked your question. The three minutes of speaking time have expired. I'll give you another ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u28	Minister, could you provide an update on the investigations and the meeting you had with the owner of Deliveroo on December 18th? What did you tell him and, above all, what are you going to do to counter these abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have not been in Parliament for very long, but I have the habit of following closely the files entrusted to me, not to be difficult, but in the interests of the file itself. At the plenary session on 23 November, Deliveroo was already discussed in detail and you answered a number of questions from me. You said you would launch an investigation and hoped to get a clear answer to a number of questions by the end of 2017. The investigation you ordered included a number of complaints relating to Deliveroo concerning prevention, accidents at work, insurance, welfare legislation, safety conditions, the status as self-employed or as an employee and the remuneration. On December 18th you would have had a meeting with the CEO of Deliveroo. In your previous reply, you said that you would look into the matter further with the Inspection and with your colleagues to ensure that there is no abuse of people who are in a weak position or who have no other choice and that they are involved in the collaborative economy without having the necessary social protection, either as a self-employed person or as an employee. The decision would be taken at the end of 2017. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. Firstly, what is the outcome of the announced investigation? Are the couriers self-employed now or are they rather employees? According to Deliveroo, the couriers would all want to become independent. Secondly, what social protection do these couriers have as a result of the qualification? Thirdly, you know that there is a criminal investigation going on at the labour audit centre in Ghent. Do you have a visual on the course of that investigation? Finally, what is the result of the conversation you had with the CEO of Deliveroo?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u30	Mr Minister, last November we became aware of the decision of the multinational Deliveroo to oblige its couriers to assume the status of self-employed and to abandon the status of employee granted through the SMart. It's a serious regression. My colleagues have talked about it. It's about switching from an hour-to-hour treatment to a piece-of-the-piece treatment. Indeed, we are talking about a 21st century economy. But let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that piecemeal treatment is more a regression than a 21st century economy. Deliveroo's proposal is in the direction of regression. Moving to self-employed status without social security coverage, without insurance, is a real regression. You replied to Parliament on November 23, saying that on December 18, you were planning to meet with the management of Deliveroo. Clearly, this meeting did not have the desired effect on the policy of Deliveroo as it continues on its momentum to impose, by 31 January, this transition to independent status. You were announcing inspections! Mr Minister, I think it is necessary to speed up, because it is very clear, given the elements on the table, that we are not in the presence of real independents: the link of subordination is evident between the management of Deliveroo and its couriers. They are punished when they refuse three orders, sanctioned if they do not deliver quickly enough. They don't set the price of their races, because it's Deliveroo who fixes them. We are clearly in a relationship of obvious dependence between the direction of Deliveroo and its couriers. This self-employed status is in fact a false self-employed status. My question will therefore be very clear, Minister. Will you make a clear decision to suspend Deliveroo's decision, which is due to take effect on 31 January, because the multinational announced that from that deadline, it would only hire independents? All these young people will have to change their status by then. Two weeks left. Will you suspend this decision for the time to conduct these investigations? In this regard, have you received the answers and the clear and tangible elements of the Social Inspectorate and Labour Inspectorate surveys?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beste collega's, Mr Vanden Burre, I share your concern about the collaborative economy. I share the concerns and questions about the collaborative economy. Answers have to be given in many areas. With regard to the Deliveroo dossier, Mr Van der Donkt, it is true that on 27 October I instructed the inspection services to examine whether they were self-employed or employees. At that time there were already ongoing investigations which led ultimately to the drawing up of Projustitia's. A new element is that several labour auditors have drawn the investigation into them. That is a good thing in itself, because these auditors have taken initiatives on their own initiative, but that is a little less, and I must be cautious and cautious as a minister in the context of the separation of powers. That is the case now. The inspection services now receive the results and assignments from the labour inspector and no longer from the minister himself. That happened in December. Between the answer to your question and today, three labour auditors have taken an initiative. On 10 January, I asked the inspection services of the TSW and the RSZ to organise a meeting, I was there myself, to get a look at the ongoing investigations in the context of this new information. After all, there is also an investigation in the field of taxation, not only socially but also fiscally. Another element that you will certainly know because you study the files thoroughly before asking a question is the protocol of 14 December 2017 between the Justice, Police and the social inspection services where they discuss such files. I asked whether, under the protocol, they could agree with the labour auditors and inspection services to come up with a plan of action and achieve results as soon as possible. Firstly, there is not only the question of whether it is employees or self-employed, which is a very pertinent question. I hope there will be an answer to that with the investigation. In addition, and secondly, I am also concerned about fair competition and a level playing field for all players active on the market. After all, there are restaurants that work with workers, supply with workers and possibly face unfair competition there. Thirdly, consumers' rights, in particular respect for food safety rules, are also important. Finally, I met the CEO of Deliveroo and asked him to provide all the information to the labour inspector and the inspection as soon as possible. The CEO agreed to this and said he would actively participate in the investigation. I hope he will abide by that and I have told him that, as soon as I receive the conclusions of the study, I will look at what initiatives I will take. However, as long as the employment auditor is working on the dossier, I cannot take legislative initiatives. That is the state of play. So I am very concerned and understand your questions, but I have not stuck to my feet. Faced with the labour auditors, I have seen the inspection services and we will also apply the protocol in this case. There will be a meeting with all those involved this month. I hope that we will not only get an answer to the question about self-employed and employees, but also about the other elements. Finally, I hope that social dialogue in the company will have every opportunity and that wisdom in this matter may prevail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u32	Minister, thank you for your response. Of course, we support this approach. But, again, is it not obvious that these are false independents? In any case, all the signs indicate this. A political initiative must therefore be taken. I don't know if it should be legislative, but you need to "mould" more in this case. You have met with the management who will provide you with all the documents, which I welcome. But it must be obliged, using all possible political means, to comply with the Labour Code in Belgium. Indeed, the provisions exist and it is certain that these are false independents since all or almost all of the criteria are met. We really need to move on with this. We have already considered this topic and it is clear that we are not seeking a specific Deliveroo status or a specific collaborative economy status. But it is important that, in the medium and long term, policy-makers reflect on a change in order to allow those who will combine entrepreneurial, self-employed and employee activity tomorrow to benefit from the same social guarantees and rights. This is a fundamental issue. In any case, that is our objective!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u33	Thank you very much for your clear answer, Minister. I very much appreciate that you have taken the necessary initiatives and that you continue to follow the dossier closely. I understand, of course, that you are a little bit caught up in the criminal investigation that is still going on, but that does not alter the fact that, in the meantime, creative thought can be given to possible future solutions. The collaborative economy is a young player in the labour market and an important player in job creation, but of course we do not want twilight zones in the collaborative economy. The full light must be fixed on the basis of labour law protection, because only then can we achieve a win-win situation for workers and employers. Mr. Secretary, I will continue to be ambivalent. I will continue to follow up on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u34	Minister, we have a timing problem. The strike movements result. It is quite exciting to see that an atomized sector of work, like that of the sharing economy, manages to reorganize itself in resistance. Young people, who are completely atomized in their work, manage to organize themselves to trigger strike movements like those that took place last Saturday. They show the working conditions of the finger, but also the timing problems. The management decided not to accept any more from 31 January, all these young people who work via SMart, i.e. 50% of them. You've known this timing problem since October. It is necessary to speed up the procedures and then ask the company for a suspension of the decision, the time to carry out the investigations. You yourself are talking about a few weeks. Two or three weeks will make a difference. They will be, according to the jargon "disactivated". That's how Deliveroo operates. When you do not agree, when you strike, like some young people today, you are disabled. They no longer have access to the platform. This is really an offence to all the basic rights of workers in this country. Minister, speed up the procedure and ask for a stay of the decision on January 31st!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u35	Minister, this Tuesday, our Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs received his Saudi counterpart at the Egmont Palace. The agenda for the discussions included the issue of the management of the Great Mosque in Brussels, which had been debated in the commission of inquiry into terrorist attacks. The MR group had also made a recommendation in the direction of strict control of foreign financing of cults in our territory. At the end of this interview, we had the pleasure of learning two things. First, the existence of an agreement for greater involvement of local communities in the management of the Great Mosque. Next, the forthcoming signing of a memorandum of understanding between CTIF and its Saudi counterpart. This is an essential first step at the diplomatic level. I would like to pay tribute to the work of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this matter. But now we need to transform this test without wasting time and taking advantage of this diplomatic openness. In concrete terms, we know that a 1969 convention binds the Belgian State to Saudi Arabia and entrusts it with the occupation and management of the Great Mosque. The result is a problematic situation denounced by our House in the report of the committee of inquiry on the attacks, since for almost half a century imams from Riyadh have been preaching an extremely serious vision in the heart of the European capital. That must stop! Minister, the file is in your hands today. Have you set a timetable for negotiations? If so, when do you expect them to succeed? What are the avenues for reflection on the question of the financing of the Great Mosque? To which authority do you intend to entrust the management of the institution? We know that the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium has been mentioned, but we also know that reservations have been expressed about the lack of representativeness of the various tendencies of Islam within it. What is your opinion on this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u36	Mr Minister of the Interior, our parliamentary committee of inquiry – whose report was adopted in plenary about two months ago – had clearly called for the termination of the concession agreement. We discussed this in detail, devoting two meetings of the Committee of Inquiry to it. We found that there was no alternative, since our security services had established a relationship between Saudi Arabia, the Great Mosque, a radical Islam, a polarization of society and, in some cases, even a permissiveness towards violent actions. Therefore, we could not do anything other than put an end to this convention, which Article 14 allowed us to do on the grounds of public utility. Since then, several diplomatic initiatives have been taken. Senior officials, under the leadership of the Chairman of the Steering Committee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, visited Riyadh with members of the OCAM and the State Security. Then they reported it to us. Saudi parliamentarians have come to us to ask us not to do anything. Finally, the Saudi Foreign Minister recently met with Mr. Reynders. By the way, it shows that it is Riyadh, the Saudi government, who has his hands on this mosque – contrary to what the two imams who claimed that it was only an NGO that managed it. My question is very simple, Minister. We heard that an agreement had finally been reached, even if it was not necessary – but that is so much better. Therefore, when are we going to break this convention, and under what terms? If I am well informed, it is up to you, in your capacity as Minister of Buildings, to notify Saudi Arabia of the breach of the Convention. What will be the timetable? I also hear about financial compensation. This surprises me somewhat, as the Great Mosque was granted free of charge to Saudi Arabia. All right! What would be the amount of these compensations, and on what department would the budgetary burden be? Finally, since a period of one year opens with a view to negotiating with a new entity, how do these deals take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank my colleague Didier Reynders, who, after positive contacts, was able to reach an agreement with Saudi Arabia. Indeed, it was found that the termination of the concession was not based on objections in principle on the part of the Saudi authorities. Moreover, this matter is not the sole responsibility of the Minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, but also of the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. These five departments formed a task force within the government. The agreement has already been reached within the government to abolish the concession as quickly as possible. The political decision is taken. A first meeting of the Task Force took place last December. The questions you asked coincide exactly with the tasks that occupy it. There are actually two parts. On the one hand, in order to put an end to the concession, the Régie des Bâtiments is in charge of this mission. On the other hand, what will be done once the concession has been cancelled? Who will manage the Great Mosque at that time? We are still waiting for the text on this last point. If the two texts arrive simultaneously, as I think, I will present them in the government for concrete decision-making at the beginning of February. You will therefore understand that some answers to your questions will still have to wait for this deadline. What you are asking for is a task force and therefore a government decision. I will then be able to answer you more precisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u38	Minister, thank you for this initial information. We will certainly come back to the subject. In any case, know that our training is behind and supports this process. It shows, if necessary, that the recommendations made by our parliamentary committee are followed by concrete actions by the government. It is very important to stress this, as well as to say and repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that it is imperative for us that the functioning of the cults in our country be carried out with the greatest transparency and respect - should we recall that? - our principles, our values and our common foundation of defence of these values.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u39	Mr Minister of the Interior, I thank you for confirming that you are not going to depart from this very important recommendation of our Committee of Inquiry, which was drawn up after a great deal of discussion. I believe it is important to stick to it and I hope that the timetable will be as tight as possible. I see the diplomatic movements on the Saudi side. She needs allies in her confrontation with Iran. It seeks to please public opinion. But it must be repeated that it has not done any aggiornamento in terms of Wahhabism; it continues to consider that there is no link between Wahhabism and a certain radical and violent form of Islam. We have a different analysis. We have to take that into account. I hear we're going to make Memorandum of Understanding with them. Attention must be paid to the differences of opinion we have in the face of Wahhabism and terrorism. For the rest, if Belgium succeeds quickly in implementing this recommendation of our committee of inquiry, it will do pioneering work. There are 31 centres in the world considered by the World Islamic League as its own and Brussels is one of them. Belgium must make contact, you must contact our counterparts, especially within the European Union, so that we do not take this decision alone. This is because of the security of the world. It would be good if Belgium, in this area, could have a dialogue with its European partners, among other things, to ensure that this expansion of Wahhabism, still desired by some in Saudi Arabia, can stop and that, finally, Muslim communities can take charge of themselves, where they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u40	Mr President, Minister, the United States has decided to halve its funding for the UN Organisation for Palestinian Refugees (UNRWA). You have responded very well this week. You promised an additional commitment from Belgium. From the opposition, I would first of all like to congratulate you on this. This week, however, an open letter of 11.11.11 was also published, signed by 123 prominent Belgians from all sectors of society, asking for the savings mill to stop in Development Cooperation. Your savings, Minister, are immense and grotesque. It is more than EUR 1.1 billion in five years' time. No Minister of Development has ever cut the budget so deeply. Not only are these savings not in the interests of the countries of the South, but also in our own interests. These savings are short-sighted. After all, the more prosperity there is in the South, the more stability there is in the world and the less migratory flows there are to the European Union. A long-term policy is a strong development cooperation policy. Of course, development cooperation is not just blissful. It's not a miracle cure. It must be accompanied by fair globalisation, fair and just trade relations. Weak development cooperation will also have little effect, Minister. I therefore ask you to take up the appeal of those 123 prominent Belgians. This shows that there is support for development cooperation, despite the image we have of the Belgian or the Fleming who would not be interested in development cooperation. No, there's support. This is alive! Take this commitment, Minister, and develop a growth plan to devote 0,7% of GNI to development cooperation by the end of the next legislative term. Do that across party boundaries. I am sure that you will find a lot of strength, determination and commitment for this in this House too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u41	Mr President, Minister, today the press relays the call of 111. One hundred and eleven Belgian civil society figures calling on your government, which calls on you, to stop the budget cuts in development cooperation. One hundred and eleven Belgian civil society figures who ask your government, who finally ask you to honour its international commitments to devote 0.7% of gross national income (GNI) to development cooperation. Conversely, we see that in 2015 only 0.42% of our GNI was devoted to cooperation. According to our estimates, in 2019 we will be only 0.36%, far from our international commitments! This decrease is all the more serious since Belgium has become the first beneficiary of its aid, its development cooperation. In fact, the means of cooperation are now being used for the reception costs of asylum seekers in Belgium, which further considerably diminishes the real share of our cooperation for the countries of the South and for our actions in those countries. These one hundred and eleven Belgian civil society figures call on you, contrary to what is being done today, to carry out a genuine development policy, Minister. In 2018 and until the end of the legislature, what percentage of our GNI will actually be spent on official development assistance? What consultation is taking place with non-governmental cooperation actors? Finally, in Le Soir, you learn in response to this call of 111. You plead for effective cooperation. How do you wish to put in place this effective cooperation, Minister, in a context where we have an internal evaluation service reduced to its simplest apparatus, which does not allow us to evaluate this effectiveness, and in a situation where the means have been reduced by more than EUR 1.5 billion? Minister, how are you going to improve our cooperation in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u42	Mr Minister, one hundred and eleven personalities from the academic, associative, cultural and economic world today publish a white card to say stop! Stop austerity in development aid: 900 million under the previous government and more than 1 billion under this government. Belgium reaches a floor level of around 0.35% in 2019, while the target for which it has committed is 0.7%! We will therefore be half this target next year. Belgium is below the European average, Mr Minister, and well below its neighbours, apart from France. However, compared to the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Germany, Belgium is well below because these countries almost reached 0.7%. This is fundamental, Minister, because there are issues: climate, inequality, food sovereignty, terrorism and migration. These issues are fundamental and development cooperation has a role to play. The Government cannot afford to say that there is a problem of migration and that it cannot afford to reduce development aid. It's his policy, though. You will tell us that it is classic and will probably argue that quality is better than quantity. All governments and ministers who have pursued austerity policies have always said that more needs to be done with less. Besides, you do the comparison with SNCB yourself. Indeed, SNCB is a disaster. The economies there are disastrous. Minister, if countries like Germany and the Netherlands can do this, why not Belgium? Don't you think that the billions that this government plans to use to replace the F-16s would be better used in development aid? I think the countries of the South need more help than bombs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u43	Mr President, development cooperation is different from spending as much money as possible. Development cooperation is about improving the situation of people on the ground and ensuring that they can build a life. This requires an efficient approach that delivers results, which is no longer in line with the method of the 1970s. Specifically in relation to the letter, I will bring some elements. First, the 0.7 per cent target is confirmed in the government agreement, provided it is fiscally feasible. All European countries have confirmed the target of 0.7% in the context of the sustainable development goals to 2020-2030. On this point, we agree on the letter. For the rest, we are above the OECD average. Today we are the seventh European lessor. To say that we do not take our responsibilities is therefore not correct at all! I will make a few objections to the content of this letter. Spending money is easy, getting results is something else. What strikes me is that if there is political will on the ground, if the local private sector is able to develop, results will be achieved. Mr De Vriendt, you say that we have a short-sighted policy. Maybe you're mystical, mystical for what's happening in the world. Over the last 20 years, poverty in the world has been halved. Was that because of development cooperation? No. This is the result of investment, of free trade and democracy. That is the way progress is made in the world. And yes, we are faced with a different policy. We stand for a policy in which we look for partnerships. Just think about what we've done around the She Decides movement. Belgium has invested 10 million and a total of 400 million has been mobilised to give women more opportunities worldwide. For example, we also decided to work with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, which doubles any amount we invest to stop sleeping sickness in Congo. This is indeed a different approach, using today's methods, such as using the private sector as a lever and using new forms of financing. Doing so as in the 1970s, I am not prepared to do so. We want to use other methods that are much more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u44	Minister, if I follow your reasoning, you may as well abolish development cooperation, because free trade will solve it all. You're pretty much the only minister who's fighting for even more savings in your own department. You ignore how many poor people are left worldwide, people who do not have a message about free trade because they are not on that circuit, but who need to be helped by development cooperation. An impact study has been published by the University of the United Nations, which shows that effective development cooperation does indeed have a positive impact on the lives of people in poor countries. So take the appeal of those 123 Belgians from our society to heart. Don't move that. We cannot be naive; we will not be able to resolve this overnight. We must be realistic on the budgetary front. I would like to give you the concrete suggestion of defining a growth path, but you refuse to do so and continue to push deadlines forward. 0.7% of our GNI allocated to development cooperation is an objective which we must honour not only in words but also in deeds. I am waiting for your initiative to gather all the groups in this House in your cabinet so that we can sign the signatures and we have a consensus and an agreement in the next legislature to make progress towards 0.7%, whichever parties are in power.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u45	Minister, thank you for your response. You talk about efficiency, about results. The least that could be done would be to apply this concept to yourself and to fulfil your own commitments, namely Belgium's international commitments to reach the 0.7% of GNI devoted to development cooperation. Your leitmotiv is very clear: private, private, private in the poorest countries of our planet. Yet, all studies show that it does not work. We want a world that advocates solidarity and international stability as you propose a world where confrontation, conflict and international instability prevail. Development cooperation must be a tool for promoting peace and solidarity. Now, you're doing something else. Many people have dreamed of finally succeeding in outsourcing and privatizing cooperation. I congratulate you, Minister, for you will probably be the first to do so!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u46	Mrs Grovonius, thank you for your brevity because your reply lasted exactly a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u47	Minister, thank you for removing your mask. It is clear that for you, the solution is not development aid, but multinationals. We're going to help the countries of the South through the market economy. According to this logic, your quantitative target is not to reach 0.7%, but 0%. And if we refer to your projects, your qualitative objective is privatisation and the use of aid to promote Belgium's economic and strategic interests. We must also ask ourselves the question of who is helping who. Is it the North that helps the South or is it the South that helps the North? NGOs have carried out a study that has just been updated and shows that, if we compare flows to and out of Africa, those coming out of Africa are higher than those entering Africa. The plundering of the third world is not over, Mr De Croo and, in my opinion, your ideology is part of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u48	Mr President, Minister, only two countries from former Yugoslavia have succeeded in joining the European Union. The Western Balkans are lagging behind socio-economically and fail to meet the standards for EU membership. While we in the EU are faced with a number of key challenges - the Brexit, the Greek debt crisis, the migration crisis - the Bulgarian EU President wants to develop projects to achieve the accession of the Western Balkans in the short term. We must take this short term very literally, because the first talks for the accelerated accession of Serbia and Montenegro would take place in February. Commissioner Hahn promised accession to the Western Balkans by 2025. We are certainly asking ourselves about this, especially in the light of the instability in that region. Mr President, to what extent does this Commission initiative correspond to what we have written in our own coalition agreement? How can we guarantee that the investments planned in the Western Balkans will not result in a political or financial bid between Russia, China and the EU? Is it not more important to focus on regional stability and security before countries add to the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, first of all I would like to say that there is no new element in our policy on the Western Balkans. We are in favour of enlargement to the Western Balkans, but on certain conditions. There are still many problems in the fight against corruption and the rule of law in the six countries of the Western Balkans. We are trying to bring about reforms. In recent months and even years we have not been able to see any real progress, but we are trying to steer them in the right direction. At the beginning of February, we will receive a strategy for enlargement from the Commission. On 18 April, the Commission will publish its enlargement package. In June 2018, decisions on enlargement will have to be taken in the European Council. There is another summit with the Western Balkans in Sofia on 17 May. We are ready to move step by step towards enlargement, on the basis of the progress made in each country. In Belgium this is always the way to work. We have never taken a decision on a package of countries together, but on the basis of evolution and progress in each country individually. Stability in Europe is important. Enlargement with the Western Balkans is the next necessary step for the European Union in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The EU needs to set its priorities better. It now seems that she is trying to mask internal problems through this new enlargement project. We believe that the EU should first make it very clear to itself where it is going with the current Member States today. Only then can an enlargement be considered. In our view, enlargement is not a means of solving regional problems. EU membership is the culmination for a country that has made a journey. This can only be achieved if the EU itself has a vision of that region and its future. It cannot be that this is simply possible by opening the European wallet because of a competition with Russia or China. We are of course also in favour of stability and economic development in that region, but today, as we have seen in recent years, that region is still plagued by ghosts from the past. These ghosts need to be solved before we import them into the EU. Minister, we are in favour of a European Union with and with high standards. We expressly ask you not to rush into an enlargement adventure and to take that position clearly at the May summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u51	Mr Vice Prime Minister, last Tuesday you met your colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saudi Arabia, Mr Adel al-Jubeir, after a Belgian diplomatic delegation had travelled to that country in November last year. I am very pleased that you have met the Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia, because there is a lot of talk. I am thinking here of the financing and distribution of Salafism, also here in Belgium through the Great Mosque, the war in Yemen, the proxy war with Iran, which destabilises the entire Middle East, and the scandalous situation of human rights and women's rights in that country. Last year, the Chamber gave a strong opinion on this, both in a resolution on Saudi Arabia and in the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016. We asked you to raise these questions with the Saudi Government and with the Foreign Minister. Last year, our group tabled both a motion for a resolution and a legislative proposal to map the financial flows from the Gulf region to support religious organisations in our country. We are therefore very interested in the outcome of your meeting with your colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saudi Arabia. Did you inform him of Parliament's demands? What was his reaction to that? I have two further questions. Dirk Achten told us in the committee in December that we are working on cooperation between the Belgian and Saudi authorities to bring transparency to mutual money flows to organisations in the cultural, educational and religious spheres. How's that going? Do you have any additional information on the situation of the Grand Mosque in Brussels, other than what Minister Jambon has already said?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u52	Mr Vandenput, I have indeed been in contact with Mr Adel al-Jubeir several times since last summer in the form of two to three bilateral meetings. I also sent a mission to Ryad in Saudi Arabia in November with Mr Achten, the chairman of the FPS, and representatives of various security services and justice, among others. I give you the three elements of the talks, apart from the general discussion of the situation in Syria, the relationship with Iran or Yemen and a number of regional aspects. Firstly, with regard to financial flows, I can tell you that we will have an MOU on financial relations and the financial sector between the CFI in Belgium and its Saudi counterpart, thus facilitating the exchange of information. For the financing of a mosque or a school, for example, there is now an agreement. We must give prior written agreement on any funding. Without an agreement from Belgium, any possible funding from Saudi Arabia will be abolished. The situation is therefore quite clear for the financial flows. As far as the Great Mosque is concerned, Saudi Arabia agrees that Belgium is competent in this matter. The only thing that will be discussed in Belgium is who will become the new administrator in Belgium of the Great Mosque, perhaps a local community. That means a great deal of progress. It is better to achieve this through an agreement with Saudi Arabia. So now a discussion is taking place in the federal government, as has already been announced by my colleague, Mr Jambon, to determine who will be the new manager of the Great Mosque. On human rights, I would like to point out two or three elements. Firstly, we have sent an invitation to a number of Saudi authorities to come to Belgium and discuss women's rights. Secondly, on the death penalty there will be a worldwide congress in Belgium in 2019. I asked Saudi Arabia to take part in that worldwide convention on the death penalty. It is very important to discuss this issue, including with a number of countries which so far wish to implement the death penalty. Thirdly, I have also discussed individual cases with my colleague from Saudi Arabia. For the fourth or fifth time, for example, I am talking about the case of Raif Badawi. It is very important to find a solution to such cases. Finally, Mr President, I also asked my colleague to contact Parliament. That was, I believe, the case with members of the External Relations Committee. Direct contact between the representatives of Saudi Arabia and the Members of Parliament is very useful. We are also working on the correct implementation of all Parliament's recommendations, as requested by the chairman of the Terror Committee, Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u53	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased that so much progress has already been made, following the resolution and the report of the Committee of Inquiry. We must indeed make use of the openness there to improve inter-parliamentary contacts. Despite the many positive reports on the progress of women's rights, we must not allow ourselves to be cast into the eye. The fact that women are allowed to drive cars or go to a football match is hard to call groundbreaking actions to advance women's rights. The custody system remains; there is still political repression; there is still war in Yemen. We must therefore be vigilant. We must not simply believe Saudi Arabia; we must see action by the country. You are doing well and we encourage you to continue in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u54	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I read in the press that one out of seven potential jihadists is a convert to Islam. That's a considerable average. Your colleague from the interior talks about "criteria for the capture of converts", among which are marriage with a radicalized person, and friendship relations since childhood, but he does not mention the impact that some imams can have by their hateful preaching, and by their call to war and jihad. I'm surprised! Moreover, he does not speak anywhere about the famous Islamic law, the Shariah. I'm less surprised about that. The sharia, or at least the respect that is given to it, divides not only the Muslim community, but almost all of our well-thinking sphere. Indeed, sharia is not just jihad, and banning it would mean that living together would have lead in the wing. This is obviously politically incorrect. Minister, these are the questions I wanted to ask your colleague from the Interior. Are the controls in mosques actually carried out and well-targeted? Is the control of imams really taking place? When are you going to make it very clear that the application of sharia law is totally incompatible with our values, as the European Court of Human Rights points out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u55	Mr Carcaci, it is the responsibility of the representative body of Islamic worship, which in Belgium is the executive of Muslims, to ensure control over imams within Islamic communities. For its part, the Justice FPS provides administrative control and prior to payment of treatment to recognized imams. Local police agencies monitor religious communities as part of their day-to-day operations. Additional attention is being paid to this control under the Canal Plan. In addition, mention should be made of the control operations that are part of the BELFI project. In addition to the judicial, federal and local police, different inspection services, particularly aware of local issues, are associated with the controls. From 20 January 2016 to 30 October 2017, 202 legal persons were checked in the Brussels Court of Appeal. Their activities concerned 42 places of prayer, but also crèches, the horeca sector, sports clubs, etc. With regard to local religious communities, the relevant federal ministers issued a circular in 2017 in order to introduce a new procedure when drafting the opinion on state security and public order by the federal authority. In this regard, attention is obviously being paid to preachers and teachers. For hate preachers, it is also appropriate to refer to the specific circular aimed at them. These individuals are also included in the common database. In our country, Belgian law applies and not sharia law. One of the cornerstones of our right is the separation of the Church and the State. Our Codes are tested in all international human rights treaties, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, because of the laxity in managing these issues, we have come to what - I quote Le Soir and the RTBF - "74% of Belgians consider Islam to be a non-tolerant religion; 67% of Belgians believe that there are too many immigrants and 66% of them feel more and more invaded". That is why, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that your living together is almost doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u57	Mr President, Minister, this morning the press is concerned about the consequences of the Constitutional Court's decision to quash the Court of Assizes. As a reminder, the High Court has held that your proposal for the quasi-deletion of the Assize Court is simply contrary to the Constitution. It's obviously a first slap. Today, there is no longer anything going on in the correctional courts. It's the real legal puzzle, the most complete blur. Interpretations diverge and legal uncertainty prevails. Are the correctional chambers still competent to try crimes or should they refer to the investigating courts? Pending the determination of this crucial issue, the 54th and 90th Correctional Chambers in Brussels are under arrest. Judgments are not rendered. Other jurisdictions should also follow. It is therefore likely that everything will now be in slow motion. Yet, minister, it is not as if you had not been warned. As you know, in the very lengthy discussions on potpourri II, we have repeatedly drawn your attention to the way in which this Court of Assizes was emptied of all substance, without going through a real revision of the Constitution or a substantive debate. You pay today for your refusal, which becomes routine, not to listen to the Council of State or the experts and, let's go, the opposition. It's obvious! It is also the price to be paid to defend your purely budgetary considerations on rights and issues as fundamental as the reform of the foundations. Since the vote on your bill, you have been constantly introducing your alternative bill, proof that you already knew that your bill was out of balance. To a question that was asked to you last week, you replied that "the preliminary draft provides for a popular jury of four members assisting three magistrates of the seat. It includes some advantages of the administration of evidence of the old procedure. These criminal chambers will also be charged with political and press offences. In accordance with the Constitution, an appeal will be possible." So you seem quite ready to put this imbroglio in order. Minister, how will you respond to the concerns of magistrates and litigants? What legal consequences do you derive from this reform? Who will now be competent to process cases? If the crimes that have already been corrected are to be judged in the future as sittings, how do you intend to avoid the bottling that will not fail to create in front of the sittings? When will you table your new reform in Parliament? Can you answer us accurately?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u58	Mrs Özen, the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 21 December annulled the articles of the Pot-Pourri II law relating to the Assize Court. This case law has an impact on all crimes that were not corrective before this law and which could, through the amendments to the pot-pourri II law, be corrected by reference to mitigating circumstances. Since the Constitutional Court decided to maintain the consequences of the provisions annulled in relation to the decisions taken on that basis before 12 January (date of publication of the judgment in the Belgian Moniteur), the College of Attorneys-General adopted the same position. Cases referred to a correctional chamber, with extenuating circumstances, will continue to be dealt with by a correctional chamber. The penalty may be imposed for a maximum of 30 years. According to instructions sent by all the public prosecutors to all the public prosecutors: "It is not permissible for the criminal court to impose a longer sentence of deprivation of liberty in relation to the crimes falling within the jurisdiction of the assize court before the entry into force of the law of 5 February 2016 than that which the assize court could pronounce even on the grounds of mitigating circumstances, namely, 20 years for crimes punishable by 20 to 30 years' imprisonment and 30 years for crimes punishable by life imprisonment." This maximum penalty of 30 years is also the solution put forward in the press by Professor and Advocate General of the Court of Cassation, Mr Damien Vandermeersch. As of 12 January, criminal cases will also be referred to the Assize Court with the penalties provided for before the Pot-Purri II Act. In its time, I sent my preliminary draft on criminal chambers with mixed jury, right of appeal and semi-open procedure for advice to the Supreme Council of Justice and the College of Attorneys General, and soon I will present it to the Kern for the government's attitude in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. The ruling, however, only recaptures the pitfalls we had identified in the debate on the pot-pourri II bill. This is indicative of your eagerness, not to say stubbornness, to want absolutely to give birth to a project that was, quite simply, contrary to the Constitution. The effects are significant in terms of legal efficiency and certainty, both for the litigants and for the credibility of justice. That's the first slap! You also know that there are other plans to reform criminal procedures that await you. We also have pitfalls of investigating judges who again question you because they are not associated with the debate. So I'm making their voice and that of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I hope, in this case, you won't put your cheek to pick up a second slap.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the sp.a has been working on a dossier on the debt industry for a long time. People who, due to a setback or bad luck, cannot pay their unpaid bill immediately, see them rise tremendously. In the meantime, that is the reality for more than 350 000 Belgians. So we're not talking about a small problem. There has been a real debt industry. Collection agencies, lawyers and bailiffs become rich and make massive money on other people's misery. Mind you, debts have to be paid off. Let there be no doubt about that, but should it all be so inhumane, Minister? Do you think it is logical and normal that a hospital bill should only be one of the examples of EUR 53 to EUR 860? That is 16 times the original invoice, thanks to, hold, charge, costs of issue, summons, abbreviation, initiation of legal proceedings, notice, service order, letter of formal notice and port, attachment, filing, registration of a declaration, right of abbreviation, interest in court, ordinary interest and right of collection on one and the same invoice. That's just one example. We've got tons of them. Research shows that 55% of household debts are not due to foils, but to daily, current expenses. I'm thinking school bills and electricity bills. Minister, after many discussions with people from the sector, but also with experienced experts, we have written 10 legislative proposals. I will not list them all, but we want, among other things, to reduce memory costs, cut the bailiff's costs and make a friendly settlement compulsory through the court of peace. I have two questions, Minister. Firstly, do you agree with me that this social problem should be taken very seriously? Secondly, are you prepared to join forces and support our 10 legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u61	Mrs Lambrecht, of course I agree with you that the problem of debtors with a high level of private debt is a serious problem which we must give all the attention we need. I would remind you that the collective debt mediation regime in this area has made enormous progress in recent years, with the possibility of debt cancellation at the end of settlement. You also know that we have made a simplified procedure for corporate or B2B debts which is less costly, but this has not helped individuals to date. I can support many of your proposals, but I will support those I can endorse. However, as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, we have asked the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs to make an urgent request to a sectoral Ombudsman at the level of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Off the record, officially that will happen in February. If it does not happen, I will present a draft law to that effect with the colleague concerned, because it is important that we have a complaint bank for those who are in debt and who are subject to excessive costs, which can help them neutrally in solving their problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u62	Let me repeat, Minister, that debts must be paid off. We are not arguing for a waiver. It is about inhumane costs, it is about daily current expenses that bring so many people into misery because they do not pay fast enough. How much money can we make from people's misery? That remains the question. The debt industry affects far too many people and urgently needs to be restrained. I am therefore very pleased with your favourable support for the legislative proposals. I hope, of course, that you will agree with all ten proposals and that you will study them. However, I hope that is not just for you, Minister. I would like to appeal to all my fellow Members: the debt industry is a topic that must be above party boundaries. I'm hoping for everyone's support. I will give you the proposals, Minister, so that you do not look for them yourself. (Mrs Lambrecht issues a folder containing the proposals)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u63	Mr President, Minister, we all know that you have been working on a number of reforms for some time, including a reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We have already received some information about this and have already discussed it in your cabinet, together with the other majority parties. I was therefore surprised to read a reaction, an attack, from the courthouse at the beginning of this week, which stated that there was no hearing at all and that there was a lot of criticism of the proposal you launched. You know that Members were invited a few weeks ago to hear the investigators tomorrow. We will then find out what criticism they think they have of the proposal that you will be launching in the next few months. The criticism surprises me and I find it odd that there has apparently been no prior consultation. Or has there been? What's the status? How are you going to proceed? How will you achieve the reform you have always announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u64	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, the reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure is one of the important points in our coalition agreement. Most of you know that the previous failure of the reform of the great Franchimont has made it clear that, in the absence of a coherent, thorough and contemporary reform, criminal proceedings will be doomed to undergo many partial and inconsistent adjustments. The Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights force the legislator, with the regularity of a clock, to partial adjustments. For example, the simultaneous existence of an investigation and a judicial investigation with different rights for the parties has become a permanent stone for the highest courts. A new and fine balance must be struck between the rights of the parties, the truth and efficiency. In the previous legislature, the reform was launched under Minister of Justice Turtelboom by a report by the professors Traest and Vermeulen. At the beginning of the legislature, a number of experts were appointed for the criminal proceedings, the said Professor Traest, the professors Beernaert of the UCL and Kennes of the ULB, Attorney General Yves Liégeois and Professor Raf Verstraeten of the KU Leuven as coordinator. The guidelines prepared by the experts were explained, in October and November 2016, in the Committee for the Justice of your Chamber, with an opportunity to question and answer. In the course of the trial, the College of Attorneys General was consulted by the experts at the beginning of 2017. The Brussels investigators were informally heard. Some of my experts had a long and thorough debate with the investigators at the annual meeting of the investigators in Lanaken, in 2017. A later interview with the investigators was not carried out because they did not agree with the principles of the reform. In mid-November 2017, I was informed that the work of the experts had advanced for about two thirds. The general principles set out in Part One and the conduct of the investigation in Part Two were completed. The third part, about the sentence phase, is still in the scaffolding. Ladies and gentlemen, I decided at that time to follow the work process that has also proved successful for inheritance law and matrimonial property law. This long-term but also sustainable approach is to allow the majority parliaments, the members of the ministerial cabinets and the representatives of the stakeholders, such as the bar and the notary, in this case it would also have been the prosecutor and the investigating court, to meet with the experts in a kind of basic working group under my chairmanship. A first such meeting with the majority and the government, to be introduced to the texts, took place on 16 December. Since the experts had not finished their presentation after six hours, the meeting was put on hold, not until next Saturday 20 January, but because of this week's fuss it was postponed to a later date. My sincere intention was to inform these stakeholder groups, namely the Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigators, collectively and then, as in the case of inheritance and matrimonial property law, to send representatives to the basic working group by stakeholder group. Mr Yves Liégeois had informed the public prosecutor in detail on 4 January, with my full knowledge. At the same time, the monthly meeting with the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office of 15 January was reserved for the explanation of the Code of Criminal Procedure by the experts. After the fuss arose on 12 January, I decided not to attend the meeting myself. It is a pity that the public prosecutor has already adopted a negative attitude, even before the consultation on 15 January. This consultation would have started at 18:00. She started and took quite a long time. According to my experts, she has allowed us to clarify things and listen to sensitivities. The investigators were also ahead of me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u65	Please conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u66	I conclude, Mr. President. I have been very brief in answering the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u67	Indeed, you have asked for three minutes of speaking time to answer the last question, but you have already spoken for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u68	Mr President, I shall hurry. However, the investigators were ahead of me and preferred to invite Members tomorrow just before Christmas, unfortunately without experts. I myself will speak to the presidents of the order of the counter tomorrow morning. With all their reactions, we will then work in a basic working group extended with their representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about the core of the rule of law. His resistance is more firmly anchored in criminal law than any other right. But the formal rule of law must adapt to the increasingly demanding principles of our Constitution and human rights. Slowness fits big things. This fiscal reform will not enter into force before 2021 or 2022, and will require additional resources to enable it to succeed. However, for the third time in 40 years, anyone who does not seize the momentum loses the opportunity to offer our judges and our actors an appropriate and transparent criminal procedure. I therefore call on all actors to take a constructive and transparent stance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u69	Dear colleague, would you have a reaction to this very complete answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u70	Mr President, this was indeed a very complete answer, but the quality of a question is usually directly proportional to the length of the answer. That is why this was a long answer. Minister, I am pleased that you confirm that there have been contacts with all delegations. I would have been surprised if it hadn't been. What you are doing is actually implementing the coalition agreement. I remember that when the coalition agreement was proposed, the judicial world found it fantastic and that it was mainly complained that it could not be implemented. That's probably what hits your chest. I can understand that, because at the moment there are many changes on the table that have yet to be incorporated into the legal world. You cannot be blamed for not doing any work on the implementation of the coalition agreement. I understand that changes sometimes deter, but I believe that there is a real need for support for this and for the different actors to speak with each other. What the people at home should not forget, Minister, is that we are not simply making changes here to change, but above all to improve, and to make the whole system more transparent so that all those who seek justice, perpetrators and especially victims can be assessed more quickly, more transparently and more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u71	Mr President, Minister, I had addressed this question to the Prime Minister, but since the government is one and indivisible, I think I can expect an answer from you as well. We have already met this legislature several times on political renewal and we can conclude that this mountain has given birth to a tiny mouse. To my great regret, I can only conclude that the government is not controlled by the Chamber. Let me put it better, the government won't be controlled by the Chamber. That is perhaps better said, because I have the impression that participation governs the country, tighter than ever before. You know, Minister, that questions from Members of Parliament are a very important means of control. There are excellences that do this very well, which provide very precise and detailed answers. I'm thinking of your colleague De Block. I have received very detailed and detailed answers to written questions. However, there are also a number of excellences where one has to wait for an eternity for the answers and there are also excellences where that answer is meaningless. Minister, we heard this week that in some of the answers you have given to Parliament very disturbing information was withheld and not shared with Parliament. Among other things, it was about smartphones that were recovered from locked up terrorists and possibly used, about contact that might have been in prison with foreign fighters and forbidden weapons found within the departments, even within the department of the worst terrorists. The question is how this Parliament can control this policy, this government, when very important information is simply not shared. In this case, it cannot be said that this is about the security of the country, because it was not classified information. It is necessary for this Parliament to know the state of the country, that we know what is going on. If information can't even be shared with us anymore, we might as well close the doors of this gremium. The Prime Minister makes a very subtle distinction between lying and not telling the complete truth. Minister, in what category are you holding back information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u72	Mrs Wouters, as I recall yesterday, you were one of the most constructive and diligent Members of Parliament in the Finance Committee. I would ask you, in all sincerity, to examine your conscience and to see whether I did not indeed reply to your questions in detail and correctly as Minister of Finance. These days I cannot rejoice in your regular visit, nor in your regular questions. On average, I get 1 750 questions every year. I dare tell you that each of these questions will eventually be corrected and validated by my head of the cabinet. If you require me to make the final version better than the draft version, you must allow such verification and validation by the minister's cabinet. We get information from all kinds of angles, including from state security, from administration, from the police and from the prison system. The administration processes that information into one answer and the cabinet validates it. In order to allow Parliament to print faster, I always offer a Word version in addition to a PDF version. From such a document with track changes a small sentence was used to show that I would withhold information. This weekend I worked hard to prove that that phrase was impertinent. To the parliamentary committee of inquiry, like the services, I have provided much more detailed information on communication between people in radicalised departments and Syrian fighters. There was nothing in that sentence that anyone could learn anything from. Can I not process the information I receive from my administration, from State Security and from other services? Should I forward the draft? - You're gonna put that on the line? Information provided may be relevant. It is also possible that this information is unsophisticated, dated or out-of-date, unsophisticated for security reasons or conflicting. All these possibilities are coming up. We are always trying to provide the best possible quality response to make it clear to you what this is about, in the right context. I take responsibility for the answer that is finally presented to me and that I sign. That's my political act. That's what I'm assuming. If you want to ask questions directly to the services and disable the minister as responsible for passing on, then you may. I am open to taking political responsibility, but that elimination makes life much easier for me. Against the insinuation that I would withhold pertinent information, I must resist vigorously. I believe that our experience in the past, Mrs Wouters, without playing on your conscience, can show that I have not deceived you in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope you have not deceived me a thousand times in all my questions that I asked you as Minister of Finance during the previous legislature. It's true that I'm not as preoccupied in Justice as I am in Finance. Everyone's topic. Mr Minister, you are talking about a draft version of which you make a clean version and which you then sign. If one finds that in some cases very essential information is omitted, then I cannot say that there is transparency. Today, we find that citizens are deeply concerned about violent jihadism. Citizens are entitled to information. It's as simple as that! Transparency is an essential feature of democracy. I believe that both Parliament, the Minister and the government should be responsible for this transparency. We must be able to share as much information as possible. Hiding a number of situations from the public is not a good way to work. Ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that we do not simply agree to a non-complete truth, because then we can simply turn off the light here. If we do not want clear, transparent information, it will all be pointless. We must not just tolerate the fact that we are pulling dolls of a government. Let me give an example of the nomination for the Constitutional Court. The media read that we have already approved this, but that is no good at all. This seems to me to be a totalitarian regime. Please let us go for democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u74	Mr Minister, the European Commission has put forward a proposal on VAT rates which, in general, will give Member States more latitude so that they can set reduced rates with more autonomy, subject to certain parameters: firstly a list of goods for which the VAT rate could not be less than 15%, and secondly the requirement of an average rate of more than 12%. By tabling this proposal, the European Commission is opening an interesting debate which is a little echoing some of the discussions that we have been able to hold on several occasions in the Finance Committee. The question of our ability to reduce, or not, VAT rates is a regular one. There has been a long debate, particularly when it comes to deciding on a reduction in VAT on school buildings. It was not easy to get this reduction. Each group regularly submits proposals to reduce rates. The CDH has already made proposals to reduce rates in the construction and renovation of infrastructure in the non-market sector, for example, or for the renovation of housing for the elderly or disabled; in the health or food sector as well. To reflect on the constraints imposed by the European Commission, I think it is interesting, but at the same time, the debate is not without risks. One may wonder whether there is a risk of creating more complexity in the end, at the level of the European market, or even phenomena of competition which would not be desirable. Mr Minister, I therefore wanted to ask you about Belgium's position with regard to the Commission's proposal. Do you consider that the guidelines proposed by the Commission are sufficient, particularly in relation to the desire for European harmonisation in this area, in relation to the risk of complexity or cross-border competition - a phenomenon to which we are not foreigners? Have you taken any initiatives and in what direction to eventually reach an agreement? Moreover, we know that there are reservations, particularly in those States which are very vigilant about the impact on the public finances of the Member States? Finally, Minister, if this system were to be put in place in an adventurous way, what would be your philosophy of defining the sectors that could benefit from a reduced VAT rate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission is currently working on proposals to revise the VAT tariff regime. A number of ideas are on the table of the European Commission, which will be discussed with the various Member States. It is therefore important to know which scenario Belgium will take up. The European Commission's first proposal is that the existing European list of VAT rates, although modernised, should continue to work with fixed standard or basic rates and reduced rates for exceptions. There is now a list of exceptions to which reduced rates apply to the European basic rate. I believe that this is preferable. The second proposal, which the European Commission is now putting forward, is to release the list of European VAT rates and once again leave it to the individual European Member States to determine VAT rates themselves freely. This also means that Member States can re-decide among themselves on basic rates, reduced rates and increased rates. We are all aware of what this second track could lead to. Once again, lobbying will take place by Member State and sector in order to apply lower rates per Member State. However, if there is one thing that is good for the European Union, although there are several things that are good for me, it is certainly the economic union, the customs union and the free market in Europe, which form the basis for free trade and prosperity in Europe. If each Member State will re-determine VAT, we will lose the benefit of the single market. VAT is an important fiscal instrument for trade and the single market. We are therefore strongly in favour of working with the European list of tariffs, with Member States having certain rights but not the full freedom to set tariffs. First of all, what scenario will you defend on behalf of Belgium in Europe? I hope you will defend scenario 1, with a clear European framework on VAT rates and no chaos of tariffs across Europe. Secondly, I've been hammering on the nail of the green tax shift for a long time. Now, in the new VAT regulation, you can take the principle that more VAT is levied on polluting and less VAT on green production. Moreover, Europe also opts for such an objective in the context of the sustainability agenda. So, Minister, will you green up the VAT system?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u76	The European Commission has indeed indicated that it will shortly come forward with a concrete proposal to reform the European VAT regime. In the meantime, some information has already been provided as to how this proposal will look more or less, but it is still waiting for the final proposal. From the information we already have, we can derive two basic features from the new proposal. Firstly, the restrictive list of goods and services for which a reduced VAT rate can be applied would disappear. Moreover, the reasoning is completely reversed: the normal rate will only be mandatory for a limited number of goods. It would then be fuel, alcohol, tobacco, electrical appliances and other things of that type of goods. A second feature would be that Member States may continue to apply two reduced rates between 5 % and 15 %, one between 0 % and 5 % and one zero rate. In total, this would be about five possible rates. Indeed, the weighted average rate should be at least 12%. Belgium is a lot above that, around 16%. This is a proposal, as I have already said, which still needs to be discussed in a committee and must certainly be approved unanimously in all the Member States. Such a reform, which is still quite radical, could provoke quite a lot of discussion and therefore also a lot of resistance. I think I can say that the final result will therefore be a compromise, in the sense that I have just indicated. In any case, I welcome, but with caution, the Commission's proposal, as we are still waiting, as already stated on two occasions, for the final list. This proposal will now allow us to also take account of recent social and economic developments in our fiscal policy which justify a reduced VAT rate, but which cannot be applied at the current level of regulation. In this context, I believe it is important to consider operations that contribute to making society more environmentally friendly and sustainable. Budgetary considerations must, of course, also be taken into account when implementing such a shift at VAT level. On the other hand, I believe that the Belgian average rate cannot increase either. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the fear of distortion of competition. Two positive points can be noted. First, over the years, VAT is increasingly levied where the customer is established. This is important in connection with distortion of competition. Secondly, the Commission's proposal to make the nominal rate mandatory for goods which are known to be particularly likely to generate cross-border traffic due to different rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u77	Minister, thank you for your response. I share your point of view quite well. This proposal is interesting. It will have to be carefully examined when it is available. It must encourage some form of caution to avoid unwanted perverse effects. As far as I am concerned, I believe that the reduced rates should remain the exception in order to avoid completely unblocking the system. It is therefore necessary to be very selective in the choice of sectors that could benefit from it and, in my view, the green criteria are undoubtedly interesting in order to guarantee a certain sustainability of the choices. Attention must also be paid to the social impacts of the sectors. This is why, particularly in the non-market sector, more imagination could be used to try to reduce rates. Like you, I believe that any form of cross-border competition should be avoided at all costs. Guarantees are given, but it will be necessary to ensure that they are well preserved in the final consensus. Finally, at the appropriate time, it will be important to ensure that the reduction of rates, once decided, really benefits consumers and to avoid a profit capture effect in the profit margins of companies. To this end, the Price Observatory could be involved in the reflection. It is, in any case, a dossier that needs to be closely monitored, since it concerns both the European framework that needs to be strengthened and the flexibility to be left to the States. In terms of the philosophy of action, this is therefore an interesting subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As part of your VAT reform, I would like to emphasise once again that our European direction is really useful and necessary. This will give us maximum legal certainty, not only for businesses but also for citizens, in trade which is increasingly cross-border. A mess of VAT rates in the European Union would not be good for legal certainty and good trade in Europe. Legal certainty and simplification are important for our citizens and businesses. Secondly, I am pleased that you consider fiscal sustainability and greening, including in VAT, to be useful and necessary. I would like to insist that you should certainly include these aspects in your reform proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u79	Mr President, Minister, the overflight of the Brussels region and its periphery continues to cause many nuisances to the inhabitants of these communes. As we constantly recall, this issue has been mismanaged by various successive ministers. It must be noted that this does not change. As far as necessary, I would like to use the words contained in the 9 October 2014 government agreement: "The government will support the economic development of the airport with respect for the living conditions of residents and all citizens affected by noise pollution. Preferential use of runways and wind standards, which form an integral part of airport agreements, will be maintained and anchored in a flight procedures law. In consultation with the Regions, the Government will also ensure the creation of an independent noise control authority around Brussels National Airport." Despite the many concerns of the opposition on this issue, these promises are currently mere announcement effects of the government. The noise and environmental nuisances persist at the expense of the health and tranquillity of Brusselsers and the inhabitants of the periphery. We can correctly infer from this that since the beginning of this Parliament, the federal government has only one goal: to drag the matter forward. I regret that. However, on 19 July 2017, at the initiative of the Brussels Region and several communes overflew, the Justice issued a ruling ordering the Federal State to comply with Minister Gosuin's 1999 "Noise" decision. This judgment required the end of the canal and ring road operations between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., as well as the end of landings on Runway 01 before November 25, 2017, under penalty. The judgment also provides for the federal government to carry out a sound impact study and possible alternatives while preserving the economic development of the Brussels-National airport. We learn from the press that the invitation to tender for this study has not been successful. Only one consortium appeared and its offer was not accepted for lack of compliance. Minister, is it reasonable to believe that a solution can be found in this matter before the end of the legislature? Is this still a priority of your government and yours? If a new tender is submitted to conduct this impact study, do we hope to find possible solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u80	Mrs Caprasse, it will be difficult for me to answer you in two minutes about a 20-year-old case. I'll provide you with some elements. First of all, I fully subscribe to the government's agreements. The first important act I put forward was the commissioning of an audit for the period from 2 to 10 October 2016, in order to understand what was happening. The conclusions were reached much later than I would have liked. They will lead to clarification of wind standards. Technical working groups are currently meeting. Why should these wind standards be clarified? Because the federal governments and Belgocontrol do not have the same interpretation of instructions that had been given. From the moment you rewrite an instruction, it's best to put everyone around the table. So when we read the letter A, everyone will now understand that it is A, not A and B. Secondly, with regard to the July judgment, I invite you to review the decisions, Mrs Caprasse. The judgment did not say that flights over the canal or ring road should be stopped. It only calls for operational measures to comply with the "Noise" decree for the inhabitants living under the route of these air routes. In addition, this judgment requires an impact study. This one has to be ordered. I'm expecting a lot. It will make it possible to move the debate from the political sphere to the technical and scientific sphere, which is more rational, let us admit. We will then move from emotion to rationality. The procedure for this study was ordered, the specification was sent and published in the Monitor and in the Official Journal of the European Union on 1 December. Expressions of interest were scheduled to return by 8 January. We have received only one offer, and it is not in conformity, particularly with its independence aspects. So we're continuing the procedure. Now we are going to resort to the negotiated procedure without publicity, as the rules governing public procurement allow us to do. To this end, we will consult with international study offices that have worked at multiple airports to raise awareness. They know that a publication has taken place in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hope that we will find one that will satisfy all conditions. I strongly reiterate my willingness to move forward on this issue, in the context of the procedure for awarding the impact assessment, and in accordance of course with the law and the procurement orders. As for deadlines, one of the criteria for choosing the study office is precisely the shortest time frame. I can only say that and invite you to ask me a new question in a few weeks, either in committee or in plenary, so that I can tell you where we are in the nomination of the study office and inform you of the time frame within which the results should be known. When we are informed, as well as the recommendations, some time will be required to implement them. For example, if the design office recommends a change of route, a new impact study will be imperative. In addition, Belgocontrol requests thirty to seven hundred weeks to make the measure operational, depending on the difficulties it could pose for the sky's pointers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am fully aware of the thorny nature – in all senses of the word – of this dossier and its frequent Community hints, which we absolutely cannot deny. Still, it will still take time – it is a fact. That is why we will certainly ask you again, as you propose. I would still like to stress one aspect. It would be wise to find a solution for night flights, minister. There is not a single riparian, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, both Brussels-speaking and living in the periphery, who will challenge this objective. It is essential to be aware of the daily need for sleep. I insist on it, in order to satisfy everyone. So we'll come back and ask you again. Trust me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u82	Minister, the solution to flying noise is farther away than ever. We just heard that. We also read it this week in Time. You said that no study firm has yet been selected to investigate the noise problems surrounding Brussels Airport. As a result, the negotiations on the routes have also stalled. I doubt that the airspace potential is sufficiently exploited. Not only do I feel that way, but Europe does too. Europe failed us at the beginning of October 2017 because Belgium's airspace is not being used flexibly. This means that airspace should not be strictly seen as military or civil, but as a flexible whole. Today, air traffic must pass between military zones. This means that there is an overconcentration of noise in certain areas. Military airspace is particularly large. One estimates from a third to 50%, starting from Florennes, Beauvechain and Kleine-Brogel. It's huge. This is a call, Minister, for a courageous decision to be taken on this matter and for the airspace to be more flexible. Use the European straw, which has existed in a regulation since 2005, to flexibilise Belgian airspace. Make use of this to also give Flemish Brabant quieter nights and days. For this, the military and civil authorities must work together. They need to develop procedures to make more efficient use of escape routes and thus to increase airspace. This is not happening fast enough, because of the protection of military airspace zones. This also means a huge loss of airspace capacity over time. It also means that there is a less fair distribution of air traffic. The integration of military and civilian air lines is in the coalition agreement. This month, Belgium had to give an answer to Europe regarding the letter of formal notice, hence my questions. Why does the European Commission believe that we are not fulfilling our obligations? What are the obstacles to flexible use of airspace? What actions will you take, together with Minister of Defence Vandeput, to enable the use of flexible airspace?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u83	Ms Van Hoof, in a letter dated 5 October 2017, the European Commission pointed to a number of shortcomings in the implementation of the FUA concept in Belgium. These shortcomings are, firstly, the lack of joint civilian-military air traffic control and, secondly, the lack of coordination between civil and military authorities at the pre-tactical level of airspace management through the establishment of agreements and procedures. The European Commission considers that what Belgium has already developed does not fully meet the requirements of Regulation 2150/2005. While the strategic pretactic and tactical levels were established, the Commission considers that the results of the pretactic phase could be improved. The following actions are currently taking place. First, on the date of 19 May 2017, the Minister of Defence and I myself signed the notation regarding the basic arrangements and the suspensive conditions of cooperation between Defence and Belgocontrol in the field of air traffic control services. This cooperation is about the co-location foreseen by the end of 2019, with the ultimate goal of integration. From this co-location of the Air Traffic Control Center, currently in Semmerzijn, with Belgocontrol in Steenokkerzeel, the civil and military partners will aim to further develop the airspace planning processes within the ANC context to evolve from the current FUA to the advanced FUA. Secondly, the Belgian State also wishes to refer to the FUA letter or agreement between Defence, MUAC and Belgocontrol. This letter of agreement describes the day-to-day works between the three parties involved: Defence, MUAC and Belgocontrol, which are based on the guidelines contained in the manual. The procedure for the signature of this letter or agreement by the parties and its approval by the Directorate-General for Aviation is in the final stage. Once this procedure has been completed, a copy of the signed version will be sent to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u84	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that you sign these cooperation agreements together with Defence. Apparently, Europe does not think the answer is sufficient today. I would just like to encourage you to go a lot faster together with the Defense Department, because today we are seeing a huge loss of potential. All aviation specialists agree on this. If airspace expands, we can fly more flexibly and solutions are possible by departing from Charleroi. This can also make the arrivals in Brussels more flexible. In this way the problems of Leuven Straight ahead and the Noordrand are solved. I therefore believe that we need to step up our efforts. I have the impression that the hot potato is being pushed through a bit. The Secretary of Defense has to answer today. Military airspace has been shielded for over 13 years. After all, there are complaints and we must ensure that solutions are found for those who have to leave their sleep and live with aircraft noise. Finding a solution for the flexible use of airspace would therefore make a substantial difference, preferably as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Calomne and Mr Van Hecke, refer to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2732/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2732/4) The inscription in Dutch was changed by the Committee in draft legislation concerning the assignments and composition of the Central Commission for the Confiscation and the Declaration of Infringement." Commission and draft law on the assignments and composition of the Central Commission for the Confiscation and the Declaration of Infringement.' The draft law has 60 articles. The bill has 60 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u88	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u89	Mr Thiébaut, you are the only speaker inscribed. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u90	Mr President, this is a subject that obviously does not interest everyone, given the number of people present. However, as is well known, security issues are sensitive issues that need to be addressed with care and measurement. Security accreditation not only at the time of hiring, but also in the course of a career in the private sector is a principle that we subscribe to. However, we have not been fully reassured by the Minister's responses in committee to the fairly important criticisms of the R Committee or the National Labour Council regarding the text as it stands, in particular as regards the capacity of the services to take on these new tasks, in particular with regard to the remedies and the impact that this measure could have on private security workers in the companies concerned. All these considerations will justify my group's abstention. We have heard the minister's proposal to conduct an evaluation of this text in the future. We propose that the principle be enshrined in the law, and that is the meaning of the amendment that my group is tabling today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u91	Mr President, without repeating the history of this project that we have been following in committee, I would just like to point out that this is further proof, if any, of the vigilance we are demonstrating in the area of security and the fight against terrorism. This is one of our government's priorities, as is the Reform Movement. It is important to remind him. As a result of the attacks, the substantial increase in the number of requests for security verification, particularly from the private sector, involved clarification and extension of the scope of the legislation. With this new text, it will now be done, since the bill not only corresponds to the guidelines adopted by the National Security Council but also seems to us to meet the needs of the actors concerned. The government has therefore remained attentive to the essential balance between public safety and privacy. In addition, I would like to point out, following Mr Thiébaut's remark, that an assessment of the new provisions will take place in order to determine the concrete consequences on the workload of the various departments and on the appeals body. For all these reasons, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u92	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u93	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2767/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2767/4) The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u94	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u95	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u96	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs were Mrs Grovonius and Mr Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u98	Mr President, I usually refer to the written report but, at the insistent request of the Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure and Public Enterprises, I have to speak to the supplementary report to Mrs Grovonius' initial report. Following the decision taken in plenary on 11 January to refer to the committee amendments which had been received, the committee met on 16 January. At that meeting, Mr de Lamotte tabled Amendment No 16, replacing Amendment No 9, stating that this new amendment took account of the three remarks made by the Council of State on its Amendment No 9. The Minister for Cooperation, in this case the Minister for Telecommunications and Post, reminds members that this issue has already been raised at previous committee meetings and that the aim is to promote competition for postal services in the Belgian market. As far as Belgium is concerned, the European Commission has stressed that the conditions for granting licences are neither necessary nor justified. The Minister therefore considers that he recommends that these conditions for granting contested by the European Commission be removed in order to remove the remaining obstacles to access to the Belgian market. Secondly, Mr Laurent Devin initially tabled Amendments Nos 11, 12 and 14 to Article 16. Amendment No 11 is intended to make technical changes and corresponds, word for word, to Amendment No 15, which I shall return to. Amendment No 12 was withdrawn by Mr Devin (who in the meantime arrived) and Amendment No 14 came after the opinion of the Council of State. Mr Devin considered that it was not up to bpost to decide on matters relating to universal service alone. This applies to service to the population throughout Belgium. Mr Vanden Burre then commented on his amendment No 13 which provided for the same amendments as Amendments Nos 11 and 15 already mentioned. "It is unacceptable," he says, "that the proposed service is different depending on the place of residence." Mr Clarinval, head of the MR group, then introduced amendment No. 15 signed by the four majority group leaders, aimed at deleting, in particular, the words "exceptional geographical conditions" and in keeping with the examination of the draft law: "It is important to respect the balance between the modernisation of postal services in Belgium and the interests of rural areas." Mr Geerts, however, wished to know what, in the spirit of the majority, meant by the concept of "exceptional circumstances". It should be explained in committee at a later stage in the plenary report. MM. de Lamotte and Devin also ask for clarification about this "exceptional" word. Mr Clarinval pointed out that the four signatories to Amendment No 15, the four group leaders, wanted to prevent rural areas from being penalized in relation to urban areas as a result of the effort to modernise postal services: "A two-speed post should not be created." Indeed, the fear existed that the words "exceptional geographical conditions" could make such differentiation possible, hence the amendment also tabled by the majority. The Minister recalled that he had always stated that he was not in the government's intention to change the current service. The provisions of section 16 of the Bill constitute a literal transcript of the Postal Directive. The words "exceptional geographical conditions" are not intended to differentiate the distribution frequencies of mail between rural and urban areas. The concept of "exceptional circumstances" provides sufficient flexibility and reduces the requirement to distribute mail five times a week in the future and that the State continues to fund this universal service. The Minister does not object to the deletion of the words "exceptional geographical conditions". The possibility of organizing discrimination is not maintained, as some assume. The frequency of distribution will be the same everywhere. "Partout" is the important word in the report. The current management contract provides for daily distribution and the next management contract will cover the period 2019-2024 and the obligation to distribute the mail daily will be maintained. In the next contract, "exceptional circumstances" will not be defined. Therefore, they cannot be implemented. The concept of "exceptional" should be defined in the management contract. However, the price cap provided for in the bill will allow for a gradual reduction in postal services as the public currently knows them. The "exceptional" qualifier does not relate to the decrease in the current pace, but to a much greater future decrease. From 2024 onwards, the management contract which will be communicated to Parliament will be able to define the concept in question. Laurent Devin goes back to the powers of the King, who, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, and after consulting the IBPT and consumer and worker protection associations, should be able to decide whether or not to relax the rules of universal service. "It's after all," he says, "a decision that affects 11 million people." The Minister responded that the requested clarifications are not necessary, as the IBPT is verifying the cost of universal service. The relaxation of the latter's rules and the net cost of the service are closely linked. The IBPT has the authority to give advice at any time to the Minister on its own initiative, but the Minister may also seek advice from the Minister. The Postal Advisory Committee may also, on its own initiative or on request, provide advice to the Minister. The management contract will have to be presented to Parliament. Bpost will not be able to unilaterally change its obligations. MM. Devin, de Lamotte and Vanden Burre take note with satisfaction of the Minister's response with respect to the volume related or not to the exceptional circumstances. For his part, the minister called on the members to make themselves clear: the work of the factor was no longer the same as before. It also reiterated that the reduction described as exceptional is not the current one, but the one provided for in Article 16, on the understanding that a decrease in the volume of postal consignments endangering the financial balance of the universal service will, in any event, be regarded as such a circumstance. If the decline becomes so strong that the price cap cannot maintain the financial balance, the circumstance will be considered exceptional. Finally, with regard to the amendments which have not been withdrawn, Amendment No 16 was rejected by ten votes to one with four abstentions. Rule 6 was itself adopted by ten votes with five abstentions. In Rule 16, where a series of amendments had also been tabled, Amendment No 11 was rejected by ten votes to four. Amendment No 14 was rejected by ten votes to five. Amendment No 15 was adopted unanimously. And Rule 16, as amended, was itself adopted by ten votes with five abstentions. The draft as a whole, as amended, was adopted by 10 votes with five abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I can only express our satisfaction with what is finally before us today. It was decided at European level many years ago to open up the postal market, to give room to new companies, to enable competition, which always strives to provide better services at lower prices, and to create new jobs, which new companies always bring with them. However, the same parties that approved the liberalisation and removal of all possible entry barriers at European level kept the door at Belgian level frightfully closed to competitors, new companies and new jobs. It is only today that this draft finally puts an end to the unreasonablely high entry barriers for newcomers. Apparently, one newcomer isn't the other. As the rapporteur has explained very well, this even required a formal notice of formal notice from the European Commission. And you should not look at this with banners, because the European Commission is only implementing what was decided at European level by all of us, including the then government parties. The present design offers opportunities for newcomers, but at the same time ensures that sustainable employment, including of low-skilled workers, is maintained as far as possible in our public sector bpost with compulsory employment as a servant, whether on a temporary basis or not, for the delivery of addressed piece mail and individual letter mail. This obligation also applies to potential competitors, of course in so far as it relates to the same, namely the mere distribution of individual postal items and addressed letters supplied by others. This obligation must be interpreted strictly; it does not, of course, apply to services which go beyond that. This also allows bpost to continue to innovate, as it has done in a very good way over the past few years, to compensate the falling mail market with e-commerce growth, as well as with the additional services offered by the company today and with advanced automation, such as in high tech sorting centres, which are no longer comparable to the old ones. Bpost has recorded a solid track record. And this, of course, thanks to the pressure of liberalisation. Liberalisation aims to improve services at lower prices. I am also satisfied with the radical choice for the general good, the taxpayer's interest. The universal service allows today to provide a daily service to everyone, regardless of their place of residence, without input of additional tax money to the public service bpost. This is guaranteed, both by the law and by the management contract that is in force today. Of course, under very changed circumstances, under exceptional economic circumstances, so only if it proves absolutely necessary, will this future law allow to protect the taxpayer and no longer provide mordicus with a service for which there is insufficient demand on the part of the citizen. Yesterday an amendment was adopted to delete the word "geographical" from the exception, I think, quite rightly. There should be no prior geographical criteria. The criteria to be applied are, of course, the economic criteria, the citizen's demand for a particular service. Of course, this will be partly correlated, at macro level, with geographical elements. But the correlation is not necessarily a priori the case; it is purely about economic conditions, about market demand. We foresee that only with one objective in mind, in particular to maintain a service that is demandable for as long as possible, but at all times to avoid that if that demand continues to fall sharply, or if there is no demand for it, a service is maintained, with the taxpayer's invoice. That's something we can't do at all. We are absolutely opposed to the intervention of the taxpayer. This is how it is reflected here in the design. Our group welcomes that. My group will therefore fully support the draft law, as a party of the general interest, as a union of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u100	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, Madam Chairman of the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, let me first thank our excellent rapporteur, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, who has been reporting on our many exchanges in committee for months. When the draft postal law arrived on our benches, the PS group saw a number of concerns: weakening of universal service, raising the price of the stamp, privatisation. So, let us acknowledge from the outset, the work of the opposition has partially reduced our concerns. An excellent constructive work of the opposition! And if you have rightly applauded Mr Flahaux, I would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to applaud Karin Lalieux, David Geerts, Michel de Lamotte and Gilles Vanden Burre, who, week after week, month after month, made a point - partly - to the majority and to the Deputy Prime Minister. But it wasn't won in advance! Three months ago, the MR did not see this project as a threat to our rural areas. Mr Clarinval, I saw you on television saying the opposite afterward; I rejoiced and congratulated you because it is never too late to be right! But the tabling of amendments, the second reading, the referral to the Council of State, the questioning and the threats of conflict of interest since Namur have brought our colleagues from the majority back to reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u101	Mr President, I have been questioned by the courtesy of our excellent speaker citing many of our colleagues who, through their hard work, have allowed the project to evolve, but Mr Devin himself has forgotten. And I'd like to highlight it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u102	The amendment voted on Tuesday in committee, word for word, comma for comma, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, quotation marks, is the same as ours. The adaptation of universal postal service will not be at the expense of rural areas. Thanks to the work of the opposition, there is no universal second zone postal service in Belgium. The equality of citizens with regard to public service is preserved. This is an excellent thing, because universal service only makes sense if all citizens benefit from it in a similar way throughout the country. The concept of "exceptional geographical conditions" should therefore be deleted in the draft to avoid any risk. Indeed, the statements of intent of the Deputy Prime Minister, however reassuring they may be, did not make us forget those of the N-VA, the first party of the majority, passed through the mouth of Mr Dedecker, for whom the principle of territorial solidarity was not acceptable. I mentioned it on Tuesday. This concept had to be removed all the more since there is no geographical condition in Belgium which is exceptional enough to justify a difference in treatment between parts of the territory. We do not know the exceptional geographical conditions of sub-Sahara, nor those of Kilimanjaro. Our first amendment has been taken up textually; we therefore hoped that the majority would continue to do so and also resume our second amendment or even the vote. Indeed, the possible adaptation of the universal service cannot be the result of a simple accounting calculation. This is a political decision which must be part of the concept of the general interest. Vice-Prime Minister, I told you on Tuesday, and I repeat to you: our amendment would allow the decision to come back as a last resort to "policy". That's not a big word. I am referring to the Council of Ministers, of which you are currently the Deputy Prime Minister. In addition, this decision would be subject to the prior opinion of the users and workers of the undertaking, in particular. For my group, modernization must not be synonymous with a reduction in services. Modernisation means adapting to the new needs of citizens. Thus, at a time when our population is aging and human contacts are giving way to virtual exchanges, the transition from a community representative to the home of the isolated is a little more of the public interest each day. It is from this perspective that the social role of the factor must be re-aligned, even though the volume of the mail would decrease. Apart from the question of the frequency of the factor, the work in committee was obviously marked by the opinion of the IBPT. A schematic on the potential increase in the price of the stamp has particularly attracted our attention. In his view, how can we ignore the fact that this bill offers greater freedom to bpost to set the price of the stamp in the years to come? This is all the more likely as the IBPT loses much of its control over the price of the stamp. From there to see it as a retaliatory measure against the IBPT in the face of its unprecedented refusal to increase in early 2017, there is only one step that we will not take. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the risks posed by this text. Of course, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister - and this is important - bpost, the country's first employer and successful company, comes out strengthened from this bill; I pay tribute to you in this regard. Of course, public service tasks will still be carried out exclusively by workers under contract of employment and not by false self-employed persons, as required by private competition. For us Socialists, this project presents an opportunity to further support services to the population and to pursue ambitious social and environmental policies. But we are aware that in this government some people are delighted that the same law values a company, perhaps with a view to selling it better tomorrow. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the abandonment of discrimination on a geographical basis is an essential step forward. The majority and the Deputy Prime Minister have heard the opposition, which is rare enough to be stressed. Deputy Prime Minister, I also note that in committee you have repeated your intention to confirm the five-day principle of distribution in the new bpost management contract. You have also assured us that the decision to adapt the universal service will belong to the Council of Ministers, on the advice of the IBPT. These words are important. We would have preferred to see them put black on white in this bill. The risks remain of privatisation, of increasing the price of the stamp and of adapting the universal service, without wide consultation. These are reasons which, despite the positive aspects of this project, impose vigilance on us. We are setting you up for the management contract and, pending this management contract, the Socialist Group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u103	Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the House is about to vote on an important text, led by our Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander De Croo. With this bill, which takes into account the objectives of the government agreement, continuity with the current legal and regulatory framework will be ensured, while of course providing more flexibility to enable universal service providers to meet the changing needs of users. In other words, this bill - we must welcome it - aims to improve the transparency of the legislative and regulatory framework of the postal sector, while codifying into one piece of legislation the legal provisions that have so far become a totally illegible fatras. Let us welcome, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives of this bill, which meets the evolving needs of postal service users, but which also provides a universal, high-quality postal service at the lowest cost to society. As you know, the current designation of bpost as a universal postal service provider ends on 31 December 2018. It was important and therefore important to ensure continuity in the provision of universal service after that date. To this end, a stable framework must be created for the designated universal service provider. Deputy Prime Minister, you have reassured us on a number of very important points, which I would like to recall. First, the new postal law maintains the obligation to distribute mail at least five days a week. It's very important. Second, the 2016-2020 management contract provides for the payment of pensions and one post office per commune. There is therefore no need to worry about these two points in particular. Thirdly, the Minister repeated several times that the reduction or differentiation of the frequency of distribution was absolutely not on the agenda. That has been said and repeated many times. Moreover, the Minister does not intend to propose such a reduction in the management contract for universal service which, if I do not say an error, will cover the period 2019-2023. As a result, mail will always be distributed in both rural and urban areas. There is no question of calling this into question. It is a service of general economic interest but also of service to society. Finally, I will discuss the quality of the job. The bill guarantees it in the postal sector. It has just been recalled that he was Belgium's first employer. Like others, he moves and will have to adapt to the changes of his time. As my dear colleague said a few moments ago, bpost comes out reinforced by this new postal law. That is why the MR Group will support it unreservedly. Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u104	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Flahaux has produced a very good report. Mr Dedecker and Mr M.R. have made a good speech. Since 1991, the old Directie der Posterijen has turned into a modern, listed public company. The mailbox fell significantly back, while the number of mailboxes increased. The market was liberalised, the future was embraced. Just think of Bringr, or the app that bpost has released and which now makes it possible to take a photo digitally and send it as a ticket to the recipient's personal mailbox. That's even possible with videos. This means that a very clear regulatory framework is needed for this sector in transition. By means of this new postal law, the government will take care of it. On the one hand, it clarifies the role of bpost, which will ensure universal service over the next five years with a clear, predictable and stable price control mechanism, as our colleague has just explained. On the other hand, changing market conditions are also being addressed. After all, it seems obvious to us that the government has to deal responsibly with taxpayers' money. If the financial balance of universal service can no longer be guaranteed, we must also intervene. Some fellow Members in this hemisphere see this as an attack on rural services. Some people feel it is necessary to scare the population with doomsday images, as if they were not going to get a post at home soon. That is a pity, because this government is just making the choice by saying that universal service can be revised as defined now, should there be major changes in the postal market. Sending the mailman through the country daily with empty bags, that's sticking to yesterday, that's nostalgic, naive and conservative. For the Open Vld it is clear that this postal law guarantees a good service to all citizens in this country, regardless of their place of residence, as Mr Dedecker said. We have corrected this with the amendment, without being blind to the changing market conditions, as was the case with the closing of the post offices and the postal points that replaced it. In other words, there is much more service to the citizen. Fear and polarization do not help the new and rapid evolutions, common sense, an open vision and legislation that is evolutionary proof do. That is why we will vote in favour of this bill in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u105	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important subject which we have discussed at length in recent months. This subject concerns all citizens. It is fundamental because it affects their daily lives and the quality of the public service offered to them, in this case in the distribution of mail. At the beginning of the debates in committee, given the importance of the subject, we had called for hearings. I regret that this has not been possible. The debate lasted a long time, the opposition did hard work and went through several mechanisms to force the hand of the majority. Perhaps with bpost hearings, staff representatives, the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) – whose members still regretted yesterday, by presenting their annual report in committee, that they had not been interviewed – we could have been more effective. At the level of the Ecolo-Groen Group, we wanted to highlight three elements during this debate. The first is the revision of the conditions for obtaining a postal licence, following the European Commission's injunction, which required Belgium to review three obligations with regard to the granting of a postal licence: the obligation, within two years, for all new arrivals without universal service, to distribute mail twice a week; the obligation, within five years, to cover the whole Belgian territory; and the obligation to have a uniform tariff throughout the country. These conditions are removed in the new version of the bill. However, we have feared that these barriers that will be lifted will at the same time open the way for new players who would behave like cowboys, as some companies currently do, who benefit from more favourable conditions offered in certain markets, particularly in the distribution of mail. We feared that they would compete unfairly with bpost. In this regard, the present text contains a key paragraph, which was already included in the previous version and which states that "workers collecting, sorting or distributing correspondence shall be employed under a contract of employment regime". This provision seems essential to us – and this is specified in the draft – in order to combat social dumping and false independents. We welcome the continuation of this objective. To link up with the discussion we had earlier with Minister Peeters about the delivery of parcels, such a measure ensures that social conditions are fully respected in certain sectors. It could be used in other activities. Let me turn to the second part of my speech, to remind you that the debate has crystallized on the issue of universal service, in particular through changes or, in any case, the conditions for derogation contained in the bill. Indeed, in its original version, it allowed the suspension, in exceptional circumstances and geographical conditions, of the obligation, in force throughout the territory, to distribute the mail five days a week. With this in mind, the factor could have passed two, three or four times a week, but plus five. This was obviously the issue of the discussion. I agree with my opposition colleagues that our joint work has borne fruit. It was indeed unthinkable for us, as environmentalists, and several other members of the opposition, that geographical areas of our country should be treated differently in terms of public service so that, to put it concretely, people living in rural areas would be considered second-class citizens. One cannot imagine that the factor passes three or four times a week in rural areas, while it spends every day in Brussels, Liège or Antwerp, in urban areas. For us, this differentiation was unthinkable. We have, along with other opposition colleagues, tabled amendments in plenary on this in an attempt to move the majority. That was the case. We can therefore welcome the work of the opposition and the fact that the lines have moved on the side of the majority, the MR. An amendment was tabled on Tuesday in committee and we obviously supported it. This amendment removes any geographical reference in the text. We are pleased that the text does not affect absolute equality between citizens, regardless of their place of residence. But the third point, which is related, is that there are still exceptional circumstances, i.e. that tomorrow the number of passages of the factor could decrease for a reason that the minister explained in committee, namely the reduction of paper mail today by 5% per year. The likely acceleration of the decline in paper mail is an exceptional circumstance. In the next ten or fifteen years, the volume of paper mail will most likely decrease. At that time, the text provides that the number of passages of the factor can be reduced but uniformly across the country, without making differences between regions. I am addressing another important element of this discussion. Mr Minister, on Tuesday afternoon in committee, I asked you under what specific circumstances one might imagine such a situation happening because the management contract must be taken into account. You then indicated that this management contract expires this year and that you are negotiating the next one. You have confirmed to us that, in the 2019-2023 management contract, until 31 December 2023, the daily passage of the factor was guaranteed, concrete. In other words, until December 31, 2023, the frequency of passing the factor five times a week throughout the country is guaranteed. That is an element of satisfaction for us. But as I said, what will happen next? To rule is to anticipate. Therefore, our request is also to have, at some point, this debate in relation to the "ineluctable" reduction in paper mail. In this debate, one could imagine, for example, extending the role of the factor – and in particular its societal role – to compensate for the decline in paper mail. It's not a question of loading your boat; you know how much of the tours are now done with a very tight timing and under a lot of pressure. I repeat, for tomorrow we must imagine another role which would compensate, totally or not, for the drop in paper mail. We think in particular – and the subject has been mentioned in committee – of the positive pilot experiments carried out in several CPAS, including those of Ostend, Roulers or Antwerp, where factors are involved in urban planning surveys, air pollution measures or services for CPAS users. We find it interesting to be able to consider their extension in order to be able to broaden the societal role of factors. I also cited in the discussions the example of the French post office which launched in May 2017 a project called "Veiller sur mon parents", targeted in particular on isolated elderly people, where the factor, via a service, passes more regularly to play the attentive neighbour, the family being sometimes remote, and providing a whole series of services related to the well-being of these isolated elderly people. It would be interesting to be able to consider such services in Belgium, with bpost. We would like to look at these leads. Not by nostalgia as to the role of the factor, as you implied, it is not the nostalgia of the factor that stops, spends every day, drinks a drink in every dwelling of villages or communes. The idea is not to return to the time of "Welcome to the Ch'tis" but rather to take advantage of this opportunity of the drop in paper mail to expand the role of the factor, the specific cases existing today. In conclusion, I repeat that we welcome the maintenance of the conditions guaranteeing the quality of employment and the fact that every worker must have a contract of employment as long as he distributes, sorts or collects the mail. We also welcome the emergence of the majority regarding geographical discrimination and discrimination between rural and urban areas. The lines have moved and it is rare enough that to be emphasized. We supported the majority's amendment on this matter. However, we remain concerned about our hunger regarding the possibility of reducing the passages of the factor. Somewhere, alternative solutions are not taken into account enough. I think that by the end of 2023, we will see that the volume of mail will have decreased so that the factor will only pass three or four times a week. We do not want to resolve this fatality and prefer to be able to explore alternative solutions. Mr President, my group will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u106	Colleagues, I ask you to pay attention. I know that when the speakers are longer, your patience fades quite quickly. You will have to find a balance between your listening ability and the brevity of the expression!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u107	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for today's additional oral explanation. As other colleagues have already said, on 25 October last year we devoted a first discussion to the draft in the Infrastructure Committee. In my view, when he came to Parliament with his draft, the Minister thought that it would be a walk in the park and that it would be voted on in plenary very soon after the explanatory statement. It took a little longer. This is not due to the fact that the opposition has milked out procedures or would have used procedures purely for the purposes of the proceedings. However, it is due to the fact that the significant concerns of the opposition about the text were subsequently shared by the majority. These concerns, as has been repeated today, were mainly fed by Mr Dedecker with his statements in the debate and his proposal for a resolution in which he wrote down his vision of the postal landscape. Mr Dedecker, we are different from vision and I have no problem with that. However, your proposal for a resolution enabled the opposition to identify the possible reality behind the draft law and how far the government could go in the organisation of the postal market. In particular, I would like to mention your statement that stamps could be more expensive in rural areas. You also suggested that local tender files could differ. In our opinion, this opened the door to a cherry picken to the limit. Even today, in your speech, you are sticking to that vision. With your motion for a resolution on the completion of the postal market, you are seeking nothing more or less than a debate on the blind liberalisation of the postal market. I think, by the way, if I may take her speech, that you have found a supporter in Mrs Lijnen. Thanks to the Minister's reply at the committee meetings, I had a little more confidence in him, but today, through Mrs Lijnen, Open Vld has taken a different view. I don't know which Open Vld to listen to. So the concerns that we had in advance in relation to the design remain. The question is to what extent we can distinguish between urban and rural areas in our country. I am sure that is of little importance to you, given that, according to studies, a family spends an average of EUR 25 per year on stamps. I have been following the postal services for over 10 years and I acknowledge that the market is evolving and that the number of pieces is falling. But the higher price for stamps, among other things, is paid not only by SMEs but also and above all by municipal authorities. Municipal authorities are indeed obliged to send a lot of documents by mail. The local authorities are therefore presented with the higher bill, which we absolutely want to avoid. I believe, Mr Dedecker, that even the N-VA mayors would not be delighted at all if they saw the bill for sending their postal items increase by 10% in one year. During your speech, you shouted hip hip hip hooray for liberalisation, because it would lower the price of the stamp and thus make it cheaper to send mail, but I must formally deny that. According to several studies, a stamp cost 72 cents in Belgium at the end of 2015 and 79 cents now, while the EU average was 75 cents. In those countries where the postal market has been privatised, particularly in Denmark and the United Kingdom, this figure is highest. You can now argue that we must compare with the Netherlands. It is true that the stamp became cheaper, but to which this is due, you will find in the reports of the House of Representatives: in the liberalised postal market, wages and working conditions are pitiful; they are profiting on the hood of the ordinary man who delivers the mail through weather and wind. I will come back to the heart of our discussion today. With the second reading of the text because amendments had been tabled in committee and in plenary, amendments for which the opinion of the Council of State was requested, the majority apparently still saw the light and decided to approve the amendment to remove the geographical exceptions to the obligations. At the committee meeting, I asked for an explanation of the amendment so that its interpretation was clear and clear. I have to admit that the Minister has answered this very correctly, which removes some of our concerns. Nevertheless, given the power of delegation with regard to the Minister's management agreement as an opposition, it remains difficult for us today to approve the draft. After all, we don't know what's coming. Especially when I hear the statements made by Mr Dedecker and Mr Lijnen, I believe that the opposition should be cautious and keep an eye on those parties. Let me first comment on the opinion of the BIPT. The BIPT's statement that a five-day delivery no longer applies in our country is worrying. The Minister immediately noted that this is not his vision. But that vision is alive, as is the reference to Italy and the question of whether this is still necessary in a declining postal market. In 2024 we will have to have an effective debate on this again, but today it seems premature to me. You mentioned a drop in the postal market. If I look at the latest figures, which are the figures for the end of 2015...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So that's a huge discrepancy. The market is evolving. It is said that the letters are only about invoices and that no love letters are sent today. Everything is now done by text or e-mail. Especially at the end of love it's usually about e-mail and no letters will be sent anymore. At the end of the day, these figures show the importance of things. Let me put that against the number of employees. Mrs Lijnen, you forget in your discourse that bpost today employs 25 000 full-time equivalents and thus some 26 000 staff. If we were to take very abrupt measures, for example a transition for the packages, you would also have to have the culot to tell all those people in that company. I wish you every success if you have to tell all those people, the second largest employer in this country, that you want to go to blind regularisation. Sp.a doesn't want this for the record. We know that the market is evolving. We are not going to stop that, absolutely not, but I think that a transition period until 2024, as the Minister said in committee, is wise. That debate should be held. Here, too, there is always a reference to the maled past. I do not know if you know who was then Minister, Mrs Lijnen, when the licensing conditions were approved in Parliament. Your colleague, Mr Van Quickenborne, was then the Minister responsible. At that time, a number of measures were sought to maintain employment and quality of service. Precisely because these measures were taken in the past, bpost is today still a performant company that has been able to respond positively to that evolution in the market, by management but also by the workers who have had incredible flexibility to think day in and day out to strengthen their business in order to maintain a certain form of employment. Let that be a lesson. If you want to put all kinds of blanks forward, you should look at all the measures that have been taken in the past. Ask your colleagues in your group. They can explain how the debates took place at the time. We believe that we need to organise a new debate on e-commerce, as you also said, but also on the wage and working conditions of the people employed there. This week we learned that after New Year's Eve, 15 000 packages had to be recovered. Well, those people had to do it for free. The cost of doing so was borne by ordinary workers who had to carry out additional work without any compensation. That is what I said yesterday during my speech on BIPT. When we look at the organisation of the market, we must also look at the wage and working conditions of the people employed in it, including those who organise these activities at bpost. However, you know the new players on the market and you also know that bpost's market share here is much smaller than the historical monopoly on the letter market. Our group believes it is important that we find a new role for the postman, a social role. Even in the municipality of Brakel there are initiatives, unfortunately always paid by the local government, in which the postman gets a social role. There are similar projects in other municipalities such as Ostend and Geraardsbergen. In our society there are certain needs in this area and bpost can play an important role in this. Mr President, I will conclude. I recognise that the amendment tabled by the group leaders of the majority is an improvement, but our group will still abstain, because of the power of delegation of the government and some elements of the management agreement that remain unclear. In view of the statements made by Mr Dedecker and Mrs Lijnen today, the reservations that we are making in relation to the present draft are certainly justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u108	Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the debate is an important one. Bpost is an important public enterprise (even if it is stolen under other skies through cooperation) and one of the country's first employers. I would like to pay tribute to all the bpost workers, whether they are factors or employed in the sorting and distribution areas. I would like to tell them how important their role is over time. Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, admit that (and allow me to speak) we are coming back from afar! Yes, we come back a long way from the first introduction of your bill in October, with a first general discussion, a second reading, amendments referred to the Council of State and a process that leads us to do real parliamentary work to try to improve your text. We come back a long way when we see the original text and the one that is tabled on our tables today! As far as the CDH is concerned, our action has always been carried out by a single line of management: equality of service irrespective of where we live in Belgium, the maintenance and consolidation of universal service, i.e. a postal mail service for all citizens, everywhere in the country and at the same rate. The "five days a week" had to be achieved everywhere and it did not seem acceptable to us that there should be double standards. There could not be second-class citizens in the country. These were the fears we had when we read the document. Secondly, Mr Minister, and I blamed you in committee for this: the European Commission had issued a letter with a number of arguments against which you did not fight. You didn't argue with this type of mail. You did not try to identify the inconsistencies in this letter, while the European Commission quoted you from other countries completely different from the Belgian landscape. I'm talking about the conditions of licence. I, of course, remain attentive to everything that could be the English concept of Cherry Picking to mention the fact that other operators could come to the Belgian market by skimming it in relation to urban areas and not in the same way serving rural areas. For us, the defence of universal service was imperative. The risk of skimming mail every day, I will say, is therefore important and this risks playing out on the costs of universal service. I agree with the fact that large packages are on the side, but there is a risk that there will be operators who, with distribution centres in Holland, for example, would only be responsible for the market in Antwerp or Liège and neighbouring cities or operators located in Luxembourg and covering only Arlon or France and covering only the major cities along the French border. In this way, they would skim the market and no longer leave sufficient mail for rural areas. In this case, Minister, state intervention would be essential to fund this distribution of mail. The third element on which I would like to return in this debate is the increase in the price of the stamp in the future. A clause in this bill allows, apart from any standard, to increase the price of the stamp. Bpost would have liked to do as soon as possible, and already as early as January 2018 no doubt, but the processing of the file did not allow it. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, yesterday in committee, as my colleague pointed out, the IBPT came to speak on the subject. The Institute notes that the formula in the text today is based on a projection of future volumes of distribution and no longer on the reality of the costs of universal service. Therefore, bpost may, in the future, increase its prices due to a hypothetical projection of a drop in volume. As a result, the price increase could be much higher than the actual increase in mail processing costs. This risk is inherent and exists in this text. In doing so, it is an element on which we must work. This is a comment on the price increase, because I would not like us to regret in the future a much greater price increase than that of the costs and thus make the bride more beautiful for other operations. The work we have done is real parliamentary work with amendments, arguments, debates. And I really regret, as my colleagues have already pointed out, that we have not had the opportunity to hold hearings which, without slowing down the debate, could have shed light on a number of points in the committee. Finally, we had to wait for a fourth committee to finally see a clarification in this bill through the removal, through an amendment, of the words "exceptional geographical conditions". The majority had to table this amendment, because the amendments that had been referred to the Council of State were entirely justifiable. That is, in any case, what he says in his opinion. The Council of State was therefore right. However, the text under consideration is only partially satisfactory because, while it "flashes" the notions of "exceptional geographical circumstances", it does not change the problem of "exceptional circumstances". The fears therefore remain, especially with regard to volumes, although, I plan here in 2024, Deputy Prime Minister, since you had the elegance or took the time to confirm that the management contract 2019-2024 would be maintained with a universal distribution service five days out of five. We do not want differentiated services in favour of rural areas. Ms Lijnen said earlier in her speech that "by this amendment they had corrected the bill." "Rectified" means that there was a concern, a hidden intention, something unclear. I did want to say that it was not a question of stifling the debate on discrimination in rural areas. We absolutely want to maintain this universal service for all, all over the country, at the same rate. What I'm saying is not evanescent, it's quite real. Mr. Dedecker explained his position to us earlier. In committee, he had said, in the discussion of an amendment (see page 31 of the report): "It is unacceptable that the choice of people who decide to move to the most remote places should have an impact on the cost to be paid by all taxpayers and other consumers." This shows the general context in which we were. There was a level of appreciation which means that only profitability counts and that, if you unfortunately live far from a center, so much worse for you! Mr Dedecker, ruralism is not necessarily a choice, it is also a professional fact, a familial fact, a historical fact. It's not because you live in a less centered place that you don't have to have the same service. That is the difference as far as we are concerned, it is the difference in solidarity with the regions which are more distant from the centres! On the basis of this, Mr President, I would like to announce that we will abstain, just as we abstained in committee for the two elements that I repeated in my speech: "the exceptional circumstances" beyond 2024 and then the possibility of fixing the price of the stamp without necessarily taking into account the operating costs and of no longer having control of the IBPT, the postal regulator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill on postal services has a clear objective. The minister has repeated it several times. The aim is to finalize the proposal for complete liberalisation of the postal market. The aim is to remove all remaining barriers and to allow private actors to invade this market and thereby fragment postal service in our country, while eroding the guarantee of universal service. We can already guess the result of this liberalisation. It will not, as the majority claims, be a better service at lower prices. This will be the opposite, as has been seen in other liberalised sectors: a deteriorated service at higher prices. Three criteria had so far to be met in order to obtain a licence: to guarantee two passages a week, to cover the territory up to 80% within five years, to practise a uniform tariff for all Belgium. Clearly, there were too many criteria for the European Commissioners and the government to see these criteria disappear. A study by PwC, commissioned by the European Commission, indicates that in Belgium, during this complete liberalisation, private companies will take the best pieces of the market and leave the rest, like low-density regions, to the incumbent operator. That's what we call skimming. When you know that much of the revenue comes from the most important customers, bpost skimming seems inevitable. In this hypothesis, we come to an anarchic landscape of several companies whose territorial coverage, prices and frequencies of passage will have to be known, potentially different for each of them. There will be an increase in the number of superfluous vehicles congesting the streets and polluting the air. As the minister said in his presentation, bpost currently offers a universal quality service at rates below the European average. Apparently, this is not acceptable to the Liberals. The bill wants to revise the price cap system and allow the universal service provider to increase prices, taking into account the costs incurred by the provider and for one year, without prior control of the IBPT. The aim is clear: to pay the dividend to private shareholders as soon as possible. Liberals want to follow the example of countries like the Netherlands, which the European Commission has indicated as a model, where the price of the stamp has increased by more than 44% in just five years. It is significant to hear colleagues, such as Mr Dedecker, say that this law will help lower tariffs while at the same time saying that prices must rise. One of the greatest concerns of people is whether daily tours in low-density areas will be eliminated. Admittedly, as several colleagues have pointed out, an amendment was adopted to delete the words "or exceptional geographical conditions" in Article 16. The minister also guaranteed that "the possibility of organising discrimination will not be maintained, the frequency of distribution will be the same everywhere and the next contract will maintain daily mail". We want to believe that. However, we remain concerned, especially when the minister explains that the concept of "exceptional circumstantiality" offers sufficient flexibility and will allow the future to alleviate the condition of distributing mail five times a week. I would also like to mention a few other objective consequences of this law - if it passes. Firstly, and fortunately, the N-VA has failed to remove the meagre guarantees from the project against social dumping and the use of false independents. However, competition will reduce wages and working conditions. Postal workers, whether public or private, will suffer even more. Moreover, in this new legal context, bpost will be allowed to increase prices and will even be obliged to do so, as private companies will take over the best market share. In the end, it will cost the population more, private shareholders will gain even more and, finally, the future of bpost will be put in jeopardy. With the new Georoute, thousands of additional vehicles will travel through our streets. And it will be much worse when several postal companies set up. Waterfalls and air pollution guaranteed! In addition, the social or societal functions of the factor will be reduced. The public postal service also implies the provision of necessary services to the elderly and/or illiterate. It is clear that, for this majority, only the logic of the market counts. There is also the question of the privatization of bpost. The bill represents a further step in this direction, especially since the minister refuses to discuss it in a transparent and democratic manner. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to provide quality postal service at reasonable prices through privatisation and liberalisation of the market, especially if it takes place without any safeguards. That is why the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u110	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us, which aims at rational codification of the legislative and regulatory framework for the postal sector liberalized since 2011, has two objectives: to meet the evolving needs of postal service users and to ensure a high-quality universal postal service at the lowest cost to society. The first paragraph of Article 9(2) of Directive 97/67/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council allows Member States to provide for authorisation systems, such as the granting of individual licences, for services falling within the scope of the universal service, to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with the essential requirements and the provision of the universal service. In this regard, the Council of State, in the recent opinion of the Legislative Section on several amendments to the draft law, considered as legitimate, in the light of this directive, the conditions relating to territorial coverage and frequency of distribution to which the granting of authorisation may be subject. We agree with the analysis that the phenomenon of skimming the market in Belgium, so called in jargon, is real because operators would be active exclusively in urban areas where the postal service is more profitable. As a result of the liberalisation of the sector, it is clear that the coverage of large urban centres, such as Liège or Mons, can be provided by cross-border operators without covering the more rural surrounding areas. It was regrettable that the draft law, article 6, had failed to take into account those conditions necessary to raise the cost of coverage of rural areas by operators who benefited from urban coverage. In fact, with regard to the provision of correspondence service, a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers can now permit the licence. Furthermore, it is equally damaging that a decline in the volume of postal items endangering the financial balance of the universal service can be considered de facto as an exceptional circumstance allowing a derogation from the provision of the universal service in the management contract. However, in the parliamentary work, Mr.Minister, you are committed not to the universal service that guarantees distribution five times a week. As the mayor of a rural commune, you told us you were very attached to it. Despite the fact that the legislative section of the Council of State considered that it was for the legislator to reserve in the future the definition of what would constitute an exceptional circumstance or a geographical condition, it nevertheless remains that the House of Representatives cannot decide in the future on a possible derogation from the obligation to ensure, at least five days a week, the lifting and distribution of mail throughout the national territory, the derogation being the prerogative of the management contract, which in addition constitutes a breach of the regulatory function. Equal treatment between rural municipalities and urban areas is likely to be undermined and the authorizations, both from the executive and the management contract holder, do not allow Parliament to exercise full control over the application of the universal service justify our abstention on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate which has been quite lengthy in committee and here too. Many things, indeed, have been discussed in a rather constructive way with the opposition. Some believe that everything has changed with regard to the substance of this discussion, but let us not exaggerate anything! There is still one element that has been taken up, namely coverage or geographical non-discrimination. That's something I've always put forward in the discussions. I have always said that it is a literal transposition of what is being done at European level, but I do not intend to introduce discrimination at geographical level. But I understand that removing it from the law makes things clearer and more permanent. However, to say that, on the basis of parliamentary work, we started with something and went out with everything else, I think it's a little exaggerated! What is important, in relation to universal service, is that the best guarantee of its maintenance is that there is a financial balance. We are not going to pay the factors to move around Belgium five times a week with empty postal bags. The entire existing mechanism is therefore a mechanism with a price cap that takes into account a decrease in postal volumes. When it comes to exceptional circumstances, in fact causing a potential change in the daily distribution, it is necessary to be clear: we are talking about a decrease different from that observed at present. This decline jeopardizes the financial balance of universal service. Even if at some point the volume was to decline much more, without jeopardizing the financial balance, this is not a reason to change the frequency of daily distribution. As for the fact that I would not have made any efforts to refute the arguments put forward by the European Commission, my predecessor has done so on several occasions and has always been told that the arguments made little impression. If Mr de Lamotte thinks that I should do the same as Mr Vande Lanotte, who failed to do so, despite an honest effort, that seems to me to be a little double-cross. As for the risk for cherry picking, new players can indeed do cherry picking, but bpost has had time to prepare for that. We have ensured that there should be no tariff uniformity in relation to bulk mail, the sector where competition will play the most. I come to the reply of the Council of State and to Mr de Lamotte's argument. The Council of State stated that the argument was admissible. He didn't say he was completely credible. We know that the European Commission has a different opinion on this subject. I believe that after the many work and discussions we have come up with a balanced proposal, which takes account of the specificities of the postal market and the fact that we have a strong player with bpost who is a very large employer. Moreover, we are ensuring the right balance, namely a balance where competition is possible, but in a way that does not compromise universal service. I would like to thank everyone for the many efforts and for the fact that we have come up with a solution which I hope will be accepted by almost everyone in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2694/15) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2694/15) The draft law has 39 articles. The bill has 39 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u115	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Els Van Hoof, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u117	Mr President, Mrs De Block has decidedly found a way to turn gold into lead. It has at its disposal a unanimous will to better support federal scientific research institutes, to enhance efficiency and effectiveness, and even to use new financial resources that they need. Everyone agrees! It creates a more coherent health research system, better structured as requested by the Court of Auditors. Everyone agrees! She then put on the table a project with the aim of bringing together, within Sciensano, the ISP, the CERVA but also, eventually, the KCE and the Higher Council of Health, a project that has so many holes or negative orientations that we were entitled to a white card signed by 70 scientists, including the director of the KCE, who denounced the direction taken by the government, in general, and by Minister De Block in particular. My excellent colleague Daniel Senesael has explained this at length and perfectly in the Committee on Health, supported by our excellent chairman today, André Frédéric. I would therefore simply like to raise a few concerns. We have serious concerns about the composition and political designation of Sciensano's main governing bodies; concerns about its tasks that can be carried out for third parties, insufficiently defined, as well as its sources of funding that may be national, international, public but also private. What should we understand by "private sources of funding," Mr. Daerden? Why have clear benchmarks not been established in the law? How, therefore, can experts be independent if they can carry out work for the tobacco industry, if they can be financed by the agri-food industry, such as Monsanto for Roundup studies or what do I know? We have concerns about the processing of personal data planned and inadequately supervised, as pointed out by the Council of State itself. Finally, we have concerns about the staff who will be employed in Sciensano. By deciding to remove the institution from the Civil Service Act, by giving it this hybrid status, the government provides for different statutes for staff, which are insufficiently specified. In short, they are all concerned, which is obviously not good for the work to be done in these research institutes. That's what I wanted to tell you, in short. This is a project on which we could have worked well, to have unanimity for the benefit of scientific research, which is a guarantee of the economic development of our country. It is for all these excellent reasons that we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u118	Mr President, the merger of the WIV and CODA in Sciensano is justified by the need for more efficient operation of the health institutions, on the advice of the Court of Auditors and the Council of State. One would work on the recommendation of the World Health Organization according to the one-health principle, according to which what is harmful to humans is also harmful to animals and vice versa. It is a noble principle, but there are still reasons to be concerned about the independence and objectivity of the choice of research and advice that can be devised in this new institution. For example, there is the General Council of Sciensano, which must consist of at least 15 members, ten of whom are politically appointed public authorities. The Management Board shall be audited by the General Board and the General Board may object to the decision of the Management Board at any time. The members of the Scientific Board, selected outside Sciensano in the field of science, will still be appointed and dismissed by the Board of Directors, which in turn consists of members of the General Board and which is thus appointed by politics. A board of directors such as that of the KCE is better sought, where there is a balanced representation of public authorities, the main actors in health care, health insurance funds and patients. In Sciensano, the primacy of political appointments will weigh much more heavily and will open the door to potential pressures from different interest groups on policy and therefore on the choice of studies and guidance of opinions. In addition, Sciensano is also allowed to participate in private companies, which may also harm independence. Other branches may also be established abroad, as described in Articles 25 to 27, which can operate entirely autonomously. Conversely, Sciensano will be able to receive private funding. What worries us even more is the following passage in the draft law: "Through the nature of its activities and contracts, Sciensano is focused on the market and must be able to respond flexibly to changing market conditions." So the market, Article 40. We cannot expect a public scientific institution to have priority over our health. Health needs should be at the heart of Sciensano, not what the market dictates at some point. Industry is the main bias of the evidence-based medicine . There are stacks of studies, comments and findings in the big five, the five main journals, including The Lancet and New England, which say that the main threat to evidence-based medicine is the evidence-based marketing of the pharmaceutical industry. Study designs are manipulated, outcomes are manipulated, negative studies are not made public, positive studies are enlarged or published several times. Sponsored studies are four times more likely to have positive outcomes in studies on the effects of the same drug than independent studies. That is why the concept of conflict or interest in the discussions within biomedical sciences is so important and so topical. There is absolutely no way that a publicly funded institution which is supposed to serve the public interest and public health, and which is supposed to be able to work in full independence, is made dependent, or can even be influenced, by the market, read by big pharma. This is truly unseen, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, we also have reservations about the new sui generis statute of this institution and its consequences on the recruitment and recruitment of staff. For example, Sciensano will become a government agency but no longer a State agency, which means that you no longer have to do recruitments through Selor. What objective, neutral recruitment mechanism will then replace, we wonder. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against this law, mainly because we are not convinced that independence and neutrality within Sciensano will be guaranteed because of the possibility of political direction and because of the financing and participation of Sciensano in the private sector and vice versa, which is a step in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u119	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u120	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2795. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2795/7) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2795. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2795/7) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law establishing Sciensano." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill for the creation of Sciensano". The draft law has 77 articles. The bill has 77 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u121	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2796. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2796/2) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2796. The text adopted by the Committee serves as the basis for discussion. use. (Rgt 85, 4) (2796/2) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law inserting a paragraph 4 in Article 29 of the Law establishing Sciensano." The title was changed by the commission to "a bill inserting a paragraph 4 in section 29 of the Act establishing Sciensano". The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u123	By e-mail of 16 January 2018, the Chair of the MR Group shall report the replacement of Mr David Clarinval by Mr Damien Thiéry for the conflict of interest on draft law No. 2652 and the replacement of Mr Damien Thiéry by Mr David Clarinval for the conflict of interest on draft law No. 2718. By email of 16 January 2018, the president of the MR group communicates the replacement of Mr David Clarinval by Mr Damien Thiéry for the conflict of interest on Bill 2652 and the replacement of Mr Damien Thiéry by Mr David Clarinval for the conflict of interest on Bill 2718.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u124	At the request of Mr Laaouej, group chairman of the PS, I would like to propose the proposal for a resolution (by Mr Laurent Devin and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Karine Lalieux and Gwenaëlle Grovonius) on the extension of the free movement of workers by train to all workers, No. 1855/1, to be referred to the Finance and Budget Commission in order to add it to the draft law on the introduction of a mobility allowance, No. 2838/1. At the request of Mr Laaouej, chairman of the PS Group, I propose that you refer back to the Committee on Finance and the Budget the motion for a resolution (by Mr Laurent Devin and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Karine Lalieux and Gwenaëlle Grovonius) to extend the free movement of home and train transport to all workers, No 1855/1, in order to attach it to the draft law on the introduction of a mobility allowance, No 2838/1. This proposal was previously sent to the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises. This proposal had previously been referred to the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u125	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Myanmar remains dramatic. In order to escape the violence and the population, almost a million Rohingya now reside in neighbouring Bangladesh. Attempts at negotiations or talks with the government and the Myanmar military summit have so far failed to put an end to the unacceptable situation in the country. Clearly, without a broad international political message of solidarity with the Rohingya people, violence and human rights violations will not stop. There is now an agreement between Bangladesh and Myanmar, but that agreement does not solve the core of the problem, the systematic mischievous policy that Myanmar has been pursuing in relation to the Rohingya for decades. Before the recess I therefore tabled a resolution in solidarity with the Rohingya (No. 2872). It puts all the options on the table, such as reintroducing sanctions against Myanmar as long as the security and basic rights of the Rohingya are guaranteed. As the humanitarian disaster continues to increase and in the interests of a rapid and clear message to the Government of Myanmar, I would ask the urgency of this resolution. I hope that I can get the support of colleagues from both opposition and majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u127	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u128	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and laying down various other provisions concerning the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, No. 2836/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Act of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products and on various other provisions relating to the financing of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products, No. 2836/1 was tabled. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. Before that, the government will justify its request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u129	Mr President, the entry into force of the new financing of the FAGG was normally foreseen on 1 January 2018. However, that date was not reached. In order to provide the FAGG's stakeholders with sufficient clarity, this law should proceed as soon as possible. Some of the fees provided for will have to enter into effect retroactively. That is why the government is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u130	Because the government didn't do its job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u131	Mr President, I would like to ask you whether it is possible to hold a nominative vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u132	For the Assembly to vote in favour of an emergency request or not, Rule 51 of our Rules of Procedure provides that it shall be carried out only by sitting and lifted. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot satisfy your request, as you would have wished, Mr Nollet. I'm sorry about that. We therefore proceed to the vote by sitting and lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u133	Mr President, for the proper order of business and for the procedural reasons that you know, I would like to know whether there is a large majority – and I have no doubt that this is the case – before we continue our work. I ask you to do this in order to allow our assembly to work in good conditions. I therefore ask you to carry out a counting exercise in order to verify that the majority is in number. If that is the case, I will be the first to rejoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u134	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I must comply with Mr. Laaouej's request and arrange an electronic count. I would like to point out that the democratic rule for the functioning of the Assembly is that we are at least 76 present in the Chamber, the majority and the opposition. So you're going to think about how to vote. I therefore ask the majority to take a positive vote, to show that it is present. And we'll count.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u135	118 members are present in the Chamber. 118 members are present in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u136	As a teacher, I usually manage to make myself understand children. Here, it seems more difficult. I indicated that the majority had to vote "green". Others spoke. A vote was taken. A majority of members are therefore present in the Chamber and I must continue the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u137	Mr President, I note that the majority does not reach the 75, the half required. We will of course continue the work on the Socialist Group. But I would like to add that, for a majority who give lessons of credibility, it cannot be said that it is now in a position to do so. I stress this, because it is by giving us lessons of credibility that you have started the parliamentary work today. Mr President, I therefore hope that the majority will be more serious and credible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u138	I'm sure you've been heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u139	Beyond what my excellent colleague has just pointed out – I can join him in saying – I would also like to point out that we will remain here. This shows our willingness to be as constructive as possible. I hope that it will be reciprocal in other times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that two people are ill in my group and that three members of the majority are currently in parliamentary service abroad. Normally they would have been present, but due to the weather conditions the plane left in Sweden later than was intended. So we are talking about five people who are either sick or on a parliamentary mission, which means that they cannot be here. I believe that this is an important nuance to the story of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u141	The Government has indicated that it is withdrawing the urgency procedure requested in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure for the draft law on the introduction of a mobility allowance, No. 2838/1. The Government has communicated that it withdraws the urgency, requested in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, for the draft law concerning the introduction of a mobility allowance, No. 2838/1. The Government also requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on various provisions relating to the social contributions of selfemployed persons, No. 2880/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill on various provisions concerning social security contributions for self-employed workers was tabled, No. 2880/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. But before that, the government has the floor to justify the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u142	Mr President, the draft introduces a new threshold for social contributions for start-ups in the social status of self-employed workers and two new reduction thresholds, as well as four new reduction thresholds for all categories of self-employed workers. Therefore, these are important measures that the government has decided to implement, from the beginning of 2018, to increase the support it wants to provide to self-employed workers and to respond to situations where personal social charges can be particularly burdensome compared to the economic results of the self-employed. Taking into account the importance of those self-employed persons, time is needed to take the provisions that require that the social insurance funds and, as regards control, the Social Security Office can effectively implement these two measures, respectively from the first quarter of 2018, as regards the four new reduction thresholds, and from the second quarter of 2018, as regards the contribution of the start-ups. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u143	We vote by sitting and rising.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2732/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2732/5) Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence? There's only one abstention, mine. I justify it by the fact that I agreed to pair up with Mr. Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u145	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Eric Thiébaut to insert an article 9/1(n). (2767/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Eric Thiébaut to insert an Article 9/1(n). (2767/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u146	Yes 56 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u147	Mr. President, I've been with Mr. Wouter Beke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u148	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 41 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2767/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2767/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 76 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 55 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2694/16) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2694/16) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u151	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 76 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 55 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2795/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2795/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 75 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 55 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2796/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2796/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Lanjri voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-18-54-plenair-ip211x.u153	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 25 January 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 25, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 January 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 25 January 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
