ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u1	The response will be provided by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u2	Mr Minister, the case of Osama Atar remains a mystery, but its involvement in the attacks in Paris and Brussels is not a shadow of doubt. He has been known to the State Security Agency since 2006. He was then detained for terrorism in Abu Ghraib prison. In September 2012, he was expelled from Iraq. On his return to Belgium, the man had to be closely monitored. It wasn't. He visits, in prison, his cousins Khalid and Ibrahim El Bakraoui 20 times without anyone moving. He travels to Tunisia, Turkey and then Syria where he is said to have died, according to information gathered by our intelligence services. Tunisian authorities called on Osama Atar in 2012 and expelled him. During an identity check, they observe that Osama Atar is the subject of an Interpol report, in particular because of his imprisonment in Iraq. As regards a Belgian from Belgium and reported by Interpol, it is not conceivable that the Tunisian police, with whom Belgium maintains good relations, did not contact its Belgian counterparts to obtain information and inquire about the attitude to be adopted. Minister, could you confirm to me that this has been the case? Could you tell me what was the nature of Osama Atar's Interpol report (Red Notice or something else)? For what reason? By whom was it reported, the Belgian, Iraqi or other authorities? What were the exchanges of information between Belgians and Tunisians? Why wasn't Osama Atar expelled to Belgium? Why did Belgium not request his arrest when it was supposed not to leave Belgian territory, according to the promise Belgium had made to the Iraqi authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u3	Mr Dallemagne, I note that your question concerns persons involved in judicial proceedings and are therefore covered by the secrecy of the investigation. However, I am authorized by the Public Prosecutor's Office to provide you with the following information. Your question seems to be based on information published in the press and referring to an arrest of Osama Atar in Tunisia in 2013. There was no Interpol report of Osama Atar issued by Belgium during this period. Although he was charged on 18 December 2012 for involvement in the activities of a terrorist group, given the conviction in Iraq and the risk of non bis in idem, the competent judicial authority decided not to impose any condition on the person's freedom, let alone the use of pre-trial detention. If an Interpol report existed at that time, it was likely issued on the initiative of another State. According to an analysis carried out by the central services of the Federal Police, the Tunisian police services did not contact their Belgian counterparts in connection with this arrest. It is likely that they contacted the state police services that issued the report in question. Alerted on the basis of an article in the Tunisian press on 30 November 2013 which mentions the arrest of a Belgian national in Tunisia – not to mention identity – the federal police had at the time contacted the Tunisian Interpol office but did not get a reaction. There will be a Belgian report in 2015 against the person concerned, but this does not concern the period covered by your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u4	Minister, thank you for sharing the information that the Public Prosecutor's Office has been willing to provide. I have no comment at this stage on these elements. I continue to be interested in this issue because it remains an important security and terrorism puzzle. What was his role? What was his action? How did it pass between the meshes of the net? However, this remains an important political element. If there are any other questions, I will come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u5	Mr Minister, you are aware that there is a market in Belgium for the resale of ghost companies. For several years, commercial courts have found a large number of these so-called "pre-pack" companies bought for various fraudulent purposes. On the basis of this observation, we, together with the Committee on Commercial Law and yourself, during the parliamentary year 2016-2017, put forward a proposal for a law to combat these phantom societies. It was adopted on 4 May 2017. As a brief reminder, this law intended to establish a rapid, flexible and effective procedure, with a view to suppressing phantom companies and stimulating negligent managers to get back on track. A year later, the figures of the National Bank of Belgium allow us to take a partial look at the effect of this law. On examination of these accounts, it appears that in 2017, out of 433,000 accounts deposited with the BNB, 181,000 were deposited beyond the seven-month period after the end of the accounting year, i.e. 42% of the accounts. Of these 181,000 accounts, 54,466 accounts were deposited beyond the eighth month. These figures are quite comparable to those of previous years, as shown in the table which I have reproduced in the annex and which you will doubtably have received. These figures therefore indicate that, despite the threat of dissolution of late-filing companies, the behaviour of companies with regard to the publication of accounts has not changed as a result of the entry into force of this law, in any case until now. Minister, can you tell me what measures you are recommending to ensure better implementation of this legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u6	Mr Clarinval, I will not be as pessimistic as you about the effects of the new law on the dissolution of ghost societies. However, it cannot yet be reflected in the figures you quote. When it is found that commercial investigation services are pursuing a more active policy of research, dissolution and prosecution, we can expect a change in mentality. I am rather optimistic, as I observe that the presidents of the company's courts take advantage of this legislative amendment to instill a new dynamic in the business investigation services. A joint best practice policy is being pursued. The flashing database, which is needed for more efficient and timely detection, is deployed in all departments. In Brussels, which is mainly concerned with this subject in view of its characteristics, a working group consists of representatives of the public prosecutor's offices, the company's courts, the administrative authorities, the inspection services of the various authorities and, also, my strategic unit. The experience gained will then be shared with the actors in the other two Regions. This method will reduce the number of ghost societies and shadow seats. If further action is needed, I will not hesitate to take it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. There is an awareness, and so it is positive. As you suggest, I hope it will have effects in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 25480 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u9	Mr President, Minister, last week an ex-member of the extreme right-wing Westland New Post dropped out of confession. According to the witness, the methods used by the Gang of Nivelles were the same as those taught at Westland New Post. The witness was interrogated by the Gang explorers. He hopes that other WNP members will follow his example and go to court. Once again, this demonstrates the need for an apology scheme to advance the investigation of the Gang of Nivelles. There may still be people who have important information and can provide useful tips for the investigation, but who do not now come out because of fear of persecution. Mr Minister, in the interests of the victims and of public opinion, cannot an ad hoc emergency scheme be drawn up now, rather than a legislation which may take months and perhaps even years to come, specifically to clarify the Gang file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to the introduction of a legislation on regrets is currently before your Committee on Justice. The design will be discussed in the coming weeks. It is my wish to have it approved before the summer recess, together with the draft law on civil infiltrators. I thought there was an agreement on this within the Justice Commission. The development of an ad hoc arrangement through the Public Prosecutor's Office encounters several practical and legal objections. The prosecution can only decide during the investigation not to prosecute. Once the criminal proceedings have been instituted, for example by a subpoena, the claim of a judicial inquiry or a complaint with a civil party award, the prosecution can no longer legally have the criminal proceedings available. If agreements are concluded between the prosecution and a defendant, the judge is not currently bound by them. That is why legislation must be developed and why a letter of conversion is not appropriate at this stage of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It would be good news if that bill were adopted before the summer recess. I can only hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u12	Minister, a new prison with 312 places in Beveren was opened in February 2014. The construction of the prison was part of the first master plan of the Federal Public Service Justice for a humane detention. The Government of the Buildings acted as a builder for the prison. The Belgian State owns the complex and pays an availability fee to the consortium BAM PPP for 25 years, which was responsible for the design, construction and financing. The prison is called state of the art according to Belgian standards, but four years after the inauguration the building appears to have serious defects. In view of the formula chosen, the costs of remedying the deficiencies will be borne by the consortium. Minister, what are the shortcomings? According to what timing are the flaws addressed? Will the works that remedy the flaws cause a loss of detention capacity? Is it possible to take care of the possible movement in Beveren's prison or will prisoners be temporarily transferred to other prisons? How many inmates spent the last four years on average in Beveren's prison? How much is the availability fee? What compensations are contracted for building defects and underutilisation of detention capacity? What is the impact of the works on overpopulation in Belgian prisons and on the use of prison staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u13	Mrs Lambrecht, it's about repair work on the cell floors. In addition, some repair works are also carried out on the wall tiles of the sanitary rooms. The works started on 19 March 2018 and are scheduled to be completed in September 2018. Repair works are organised in such a way that there is no loss of detention capacity. The emptying of the cells is fully collected through internal mutations of the detainees on temporary trio cells. Of course, this temporary occupation complies with the material standards recommended by the CPT. As a result of this intervention, a complete section is left empty and the works can be organized as quickly as possible and with as little time as possible. There are therefore no further implications for the overall detention capacity. The maximum spread of internal mutations across the different wings also reduces additional workload for prison staff to the strict minimum. The aim is, of course, to make maximum use of the equipment. On average, this means between 290 and 300 prisoners, depending on temporary transfers to the hospital or medical centre or transfers in order to appear before the SURB in another establishment. The availability fee amounts to 13.7 million euros per year, one third of which is paid by the Justice Department and two thirds by the Government of the Buildings. The contract shall contain compensation mechanisms in case capacity cannot be fully used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u14	Minister, I think I can understand from your answer that these works have no impact on the overpopulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament 25509 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Cauter's 25594 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u16	Minister, an online survey in 2016 showed that 86 percent of citizens do not think the legal language is clear. Legal professionals also share this view: 68.8 % of lawyers and business lawyers and 66.5 % of magistrates find the legal language unclear. It goes without saying that a democratic rule of law can only exist if the citizens have confidence in the institutions. Those who do not understand or understand, risk turning away from it. In short, an inaccessible language leads to incomprehension and thus less confidence in the rule of law. In the report of the Kruid project, with the subtitle I have tasted, "Bring the dish to taste with an accessible language," the Supreme Court of Justice made a series of findings and recommendations. These recommendations are addressed in their entirety to all actors in the judicial world and their partners. However, two recommendations are addressed specifically to you, Minister. The first recommendation is as follows: "Make sure that all judicial entities have suitable, tested and compatible hardware and software at their disposal'. The Supreme Court of Justice notes that the desire to obtain an accessible legal language sometimes encounters restrictions on information technology. Models and templates are drawn up, but sometimes cannot be properly integrated into the computer system. Sometimes adjustments require a lot of time or even lead to errors. Moreover, the transfer of documents between computers does not always save the time that one might expect from a performant computer system. The second recommendation is as follows: "Set up a fixed office for readability with a sufficiently large operating budget. Provide additional or other financing methods (dotation, subsidies, membership...) for the future. This recommendation starts from the observation that legal practitioners who are already convinced that the legal language should be clarified are inclined to revert to their old habits. Mr President, first of all, what are your views on these recommendations? Secondly, what measures will you take to achieve a more accessible and comprehensible legal language in order to restore confidence in justice and the rule of law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u17	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, as Minister, I fully support the campaign of the Supreme Court of Justice to use accessible language. In 2015 Jan Hautekiet already put it on the agenda in his radio programme and the legal language was already mentioned. It was clear that the language in the letters between citizens and courts is too technical for people without a legal background. Legal language must meet a number of conditions and must be legally correct. This does not prevent the possibility of ensuring that documents, judgments and letters to citizens are drawn up in plain language. Justice is here for the people. That means that justice must also be able to communicate clearly with the people. The roll-out of the MACH national file management application for the Registrys and the parquet secretariats will work towards standardisation. MACH replaces all obsolete file management applications of the various courts and parquets with a standardized application with many more functionalities. This presupposes that the Judicial Order develops uniform model letters and working documents for that application. At the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office, there is a National Design Office that has developed simplified model letters for the Public Prosecutor's Office, focusing on making the letters accessible. National standard documents were also drawn up for the 162 different peace courts. The other courts are also asked to make a similar standardisation exercise when introducing MACH. It is useful to involve externals with expertise on language. There is an example at the prosecution's office. The Council of Procurators of the King has set up a working group on comprehensible communication with the judges to rewrite model letters from the Public Prosecutor's Office. This working group cooperates with other partners within the Public Prosecutor's Office, such as the Expertise Network "Slachtoffer Policy."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u18	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. This is not my first question. I asked questions about this a few months ago. You always answer that you agree, that you agree with it and support it, but I think that this can only work if you are set up from an agency for everyone. After all, we are now dependent on individual actions to improve the situation. When will this standardized application be introduced? The word "application" is also difficult. In fact, we too should avoid such a language, because the people who read the questions may not understand it either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u19	Mr Minister, if a person is sentenced to lapse the right to drive, the sentenced person must lodge his or her driving licence or the evidence in force as such at the Registry within the four-day period laid down by the King, as stated in the articles of the traffic law. If the person concerned is no longer in possession of his driving licence due, for example, to theft or loss, he may obtain from the municipality or the police a certificate of loss or theft of the driving licence. A part of the Registry shall refuse such a certificate as such, instead of the licence itself, if the person concerned wishes to comply with the obligation to surrender his driving licence in order to obtain the revocation of the right to drive. Other Registrys accept such evidence of loss. In response to a previous parliamentary question, you confirmed that a certificate of loss should not be accepted as a valid evidence as such. The person concerned must therefore give up his driving licence. In the meantime, a letter has been issued by the FPS Mobility, which states that municipalities are no longer allowed to issue a new licence during a period of effective decay or in open recovery examinations. The person concerned is thus, as it were, in a vicious circle: he cannot submit his driving licence in order to see the expiry of the right to drive go into effect, nor can he provide himself with a new driving licence. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Will you ask the College to issue uniform instructions applicable to all Registrys? Will you consult with the Minister for Mobility in order to find a solution, or should a legislative initiative be taken to address this problem? Is it not appropriate to abolish the actual surrender at the Registry and replace it with a virtual surrender in the Crossroads Bank Mercury? Moreover, can this virtual surrender not save staff and avoid making false declarations about the loss of a driving licence? Finally, can you give me the state of play regarding the integration of data and the access of the various actors to Mercury? I have already asked you a number of questions about this in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u20	Mrs Van Cauter, the problem you raise with regard to the surrender of driving licences is well known. I refer to my answer to the written parliamentary question No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Uniform application to all Registrys is desirable, but the establishment or imposition of uniform rules on the surrender of the driving licence at the Registry is not one of the tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office or of the College of Attorneys General, but of the internal organisation of the Registrys of the Courts. I am, of course, prepared to discuss this issue with Mr Bellot, who is responsible for Mobility. I do not think that a legislative initiative to solve this problem is necessary. The Mercury database can solve the problem of actual surrender. After all, through this database, the actual surrender of the driving licence will become superfluous. From the moment the right of steering lapses, this will be entered into the MACH system. At the end of 2016, the Justice Department accessed the MACH database via Fedict. This database shall contain information on the expiry of the right to drive and on the immediate withdrawal of the driving licence. Since the end of 2017, these data are also accessible to the municipalities, which are required to issue the driving licences. This information is also accessible to the police, but integration into their own computer systems is still under development. The integration of the information on FPS Mobility driving licences into the ICT systems of the prosecutors and police courts, the so-called MACH system, is in the final phase. This is also the case for information on temporary driving bans, which are transmitted daily by police forces to the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but that did not solve the problem. With regard to the acceptance or non-acceptance of a declaration of loss, I understand that it is not up to the prosecution to issue uniform directives, but we are now finding that at certain Registrys, which is apparently also supported by you, a declaration of loss is not accepted as a deposit of a licence. If the driving licence is lost today and the right to drive has been revoked, there is therefore no possibility of the loss of the driving licence. All these people are therefore in a situation where they do want to be punished, but cannot go through them and therefore commit facts that will punish them again. It is therefore not possible to have a new driving licence delivered during a period of decay, nor can it be allowed to be cancelled. I do not know if you are aware of this, Minister. Perhaps you could have your services look at this again, to see what one should do in order to be able to suffer the decline of the right to control. There can't be a solution to this, can there? How long will the decline of the right to steer last? There is also a constant violation if we do not offer a solution. Integration and the removal of driving licences on paper, but in a computerized way, would not only save time and resources, it would also solve the problem. As I have heard today, we are not there yet. I can only ask you to try to make progress here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 25495 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the media has told us that your colleagues Jambon and Francken are taking over the Tilburg cell complex to build a closed centre in our country. Of course, they do so in order to obtain more capacity, in implementation of a government decision taken a year ago to create 556 additional places in return centres. The return centres are not, of course, the only institutions affected by lack of space. The penitentiary institutions in our country are also heavily populated. Not long ago, we rented the same cell complex in Tilburg that was now abandoned for Justice, but is now being moved to our country to create more places to return. I have the following questions. Why is Tilburg's cell complex brought to our country to serve as a closed center and not to provide additional capacity for inmates? Was that option investigated? If so, have you come to the conclusion that the EPI does not need it? How many prisoners are currently in our penitentiary institutions and how many are in prison, compared to the number of places? In other words, how large is the overpopulation? Finally, how many places are not in use today? I am talking more specifically about the sections in Bruges and the places that can be created if necessary via DBFM in Marche, Beveren and Leuven? How many places does the Justice Department need to ensure detention in optimal conditions if we want to carry out the punishments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u24	Mr President, Minister, I also read the message that Mr Van Cauter mentioned. We know that Tilburg has been a solution, at least temporarily, to increase cell capacity and reduce the deficit. You once said that it would not be as bad in itself if Tilburg were to disappear, because the interns are now allowed to go to the centres and we are taking it. However, we note that there is still a problem, in the sense that the Belgian prison system is still overcrowded. The way in which this has been dealt with in the Netherlands is a very interesting piste that we have talked about very often. The Dutch government is based on the principle of carrying out any punishment. Additional capacity was then provided and nowadays one sits there with empty cells that are either rented out, as with Tilburg's cells being brought here for a different purpose. I understand that this has been agreed. I will also question Minister Jambon about this, but what interests me most now is whether we are completely leaving the track of renting a cell in the Netherlands or elsewhere. I know that there is a price tag on this budget, but it is a very interesting slope. Are you considering tackling the overpopulation in the cells in the future and increasing the cell capacity by perhaps re-renting Dutch cells, as there is a cell surplus there? It can no longer be Tilburg's cells, since they have been given a different destination, but I think a project like Tilburg is an interesting slope to solve the problem we face daily and thus improve our execution. I wonder if you are considering such a new project. Minister, I have another question about the prison cells that would be out of use today. We know that today a number of cells are too outdated and are therefore closed, as well as a number of cells are being renovated and therefore closed. However, some cells are also not in use in agreement with the trade unions. Minister, I would have liked to have seen the number of cells involved. I also liked to get the right reason as well as the ratio of the total number of cells that are not used today to the total cell capacity. I am aware that this is a question of numbers. Nevertheless, it seems to me to be interesting information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs De Wit, in 2016, the government decided not to extend the Treaty with Tilburg for the then rent of capacity on the ground. I was only informed at a later stage of the question by Mr Francken and colleague Jambon to partially take over the Tilburg cellular prison and transfer it to Belgium. By the way, this is not about 500 places but only about the mobile modules installed in Tilburg. I made an agreement with Mr Francken that there will be cooperation between the two of us, with the aim of speeding up the take-over and return of ex-convicts. In this context, therefore, places are reserved within the infrastructure of the newly closed centre for illegal convicts who are in the time conditions for early release or who have reached six months before their sentence and can therefore be deported. The establishment will therefore also benefit the Justice Department. I'm not aware of any other opportunities from abroad. However, I would also like to point out that transferring cells from abroad is more than a simple move. It's not just about the actual cells. Buildings for the other functions of the prison also need to be placed and utilities need to be built. In addition, a building permit must be applied for and that is more so. For details on this, I refer to Mr Jambon. Yesterday, 29 May 2018, there were 10 289 prisoners in Belgian prisons in a total of 9 243 places. So we have an overpopulation of about 11.3%. A year ago, we were at 17.1 %. I refer to the master plan III approved by the government, which consists of various aspects, such as infrastructure measures, renovations, enlargements, new prisons, etc., but with which we also want to use other measures. If the master plan III can be carried out with the support of all those involved, as fully stated, there will be 10 568 places. So that's about 1 300 places more than at the moment. In addition, all cells will meet the standards of the CPT, including the cells in which multiple individuals are present. I'll give you an overview of the number of cells that are not in use today. In Bruges there is a portion with 46 cells not in use. Its opening is scheduled for September 2018. In Leuven a wing with 98 places is not opened. This is a new wing. Following the completion of the staff framework in the autumn, it will be opened. In Beveren there are currently 12 places not filled. After the completion of the staffing framework and the completion of the repair work there, on which I have just answered a question from Mrs Lambrecht, that will also be the case. 52 places have been closed in Namur for renovation work. Its opening is scheduled for early July. But then we must open another wing for further renovation. So it's a matter that's in permanent motion. As you can see, about 200 places are not being used at the moment. I would just like to say that in the modules that Mr Jambon had transmitted it is about 9 times 12, that is 108 normal cells and 24 duo cells. So all together, it's about 130 places. You must take into account the fact that after Tilburg we have had bad luck because half of the prison at Vorst has failed. The mayor ordered me to close this prison. In Merksplas, an entire wing for interned people was burned down. This also reduces capacity. We remain in a happy expectation of a final decision by the Council of State on Haren, which should allow us to proceed this year to the first spade stitch there. I do not want to comment on the rent of foreign cell capacity at the moment. If it doesn't get underway in Haren, the government will look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u26	In any case, Minister, it is a good thing that we are working together to solve the problems of capacity. I learned from the media that the cell complex transferred from Tilburg will also benefit Justice for the detention of sentenced persons transferred to a closed centre prior to their expulsion. In this way, the timetable will be shortened and Justice will be able to free up capacity. That is a step forward. You noted that additional permits and constructions are needed to install such a cell complex. Apparently, that's not so easy. If that is possible for Secretary of State Francken and for Minister Jambon, let me say immediately that it must also be possible for Justice. In any case, the licences to be obtained seem to me to be comparable. Well, if it is really necessary, if there is indeed a shortage of capacity, and if we want to carry out the penalties effectively, then this slope must be investigated. The overcrowding of the prisons is decreasing. That is undoubtedly positive. But at the expense of what, Minister? You know my opinion and I will not repeat it. I believe that we really need to focus on the execution of punishments, just in order to secure our society. We all know that there is a master plan III, Minister. That's a plan in five years. I know this wasn't realized in one-two-three. The way in which licences are to be obtained does not help you at all. I would like to join you wholeheartedly in saying that you and we would have preferred this all to be different, but the procedures are running and they are what they are. There is also a need for careful consideration. However, we may also need to consider in the short term how we can meet the need. I note that a number of places are not being used today, which has to do with staffing issues to a large extent. It's a mystery to me that could be the reason. If I have listened to you correctly, you are talking about Leuven, Beveren and Namur, where there are cells available today, but where there are apparently too few staff. You did not mention the possibility of opening up additional places under the DBFM contracts. I do not know whether you can answer me today or whether they have been included in it, but that is what I am talking about later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u27	You know, Minister, that punishment is a particularly difficult issue. I am glad to hear you say that if things did not get going in Haren, we should look at a solution like that with Tilburg. In fact, I would say that we should be looking a little earlier to see if such a thing is possible. Then I am not talking about what you said in your answer, to bring something here, but about renting places abroad, as we did before. I know that this is not obvious, but you know our principle of trying to ensure that punishment is carried out as correctly as possible and that punishments are carried out. That's the point. You refer me to Minister Jambon. Of course, I will ask him the necessary questions, but the final policy and the vision come from you as well. How do you handle it? In what way do you intend to punish? Under the master plan III you will have more cells than there are prisoners today, so there will be enough capacity, you say, but you cannot know that. We do not know in advance how many people will commit a crime and how many people will be arrested. We can't control that. It also depends on how you deal with the punishment, whether stricter or less severe. These are determining factors for the number of cells we need. I therefore hope that we will be there. If that is not the case, then we must look at every slope in order to increase capacity, however difficult it may be. As you rightly said, the construction of a prison is not clear. In that case, we must look at temporary projects, such as the Tilburg prison. I think that we should have the courage to consider this, even if I know that there is a budget to that effect. However, the safety of our society is also important in this respect. You have told me which cells are not being used today where and for what reason. That part of your answer, with all the figures, I'll read it quietly. I have not heard the ratio of the percentage to total capacity, but that is not so important either. In any case, I hope that we will have as many cells as possible as possible, so that those who belong to them can also be placed in them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u28	I'd like to give you some additional information from the inside out. I believe that we in Leuze-en-Hainaut have made 42 additional places under the DBFM procedure. Once the frameworks have been completed, it is not impossible for us to do so in Beveren. In Marche-en-Famenne this is not the intention for the time being because there is a very favourable, open prison regime. It would be difficult to maintain that with more prisoners. Mrs Van Cauter, you forgot to mention Bruges in your list, but you will find information on this in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u29	Minister, since the 1970s courts and courts of appeal in our country have been able to resort to substitute judges. This may be, for example, a lawyer or a notary, who serves as a judge, if the courts of appeal are prevented. That system was intended for emergencies, but due to persistent shortages and delays in the replacement of magistrates, the deputy judges also filled structural gaps in the Justice Department. In an earlier reply, you indicated that the number of alternate judges fell from 2 056 in 2004 to 1 532 in 2017, or -521. The number of judges was 1 555 in 2004 versus 1 557 in 2017, or +2. At least as interesting were the figures on vacancies for deputy magistrates and their completion. For example, there were 162 vacancies published in 2015, of which 82 were not candidates. In 2016, there were no vacancies. In 2017, there were 170 published vacancies, but in 124 cases there were no candidates. Seven out of ten vacancies for alternate judges are therefore not filled out because of insufficient candidates. There is no need to wonder that fewer and fewer people feel called to run. Even if a judge replaces a full-time judge, he only gets a half-time salary for that. Already in its opinion of 26 April 2006 on the deputy judges, the Supreme Court of Justice suggested that the judicial system should not be organised in a way that makes its proper functioning structurally dependent on voluntary work. Minister, do you think it is justified that the help of voluntary forces should be called upon to ensure the proper functioning of the public service of justice? How long will you maintain the system of half-time remuneration for full-time work? When will you put an end to the policy of not filling in the professional framework until very late? What measures will you take to ensure the normal course of justice, now that the vacancies for alternate judges are no longer filled?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u30	Mr Minister, on 3 May I questioned you about the system of deputy judges. I then confronted you with the recommendations adopted by GRECO in March 2014 to prevent corruption of Members of Parliament, judges and prosecutors. In the meantime, we are more than four years later and in its interim report of March 2018, GRECO again gave a clear lack of justice, as only one of the seven recommendations under the jurisdiction of Justice was implemented. As regards the reform of the conditions for recourse to the deputy judges, you stated in your reply that there were fewer and fewer alternate judges, but that consultations were ongoing and a draft law would be submitted to the Council of State by June at the latest. In the comments on my question and your answer, we read among other things the following. I quote Mr Boyen, President of the College of the Courts and Courts: 'In the current state of affairs, however, we need the lay judges. All over Belgium we have about 170 professional magistrates too few. Meanwhile, some courts have a structural need for alternates not to close chambers." The reason why alternates are still difficult to find is precisely the lack of status and the often free provision of services expected from most deputy judges. In De Standaard of 23 May you yourself gave the limited remuneration as an explanation for the low turnout for open vacancies. Mr Minister, since the system of deputy judges determines, among other things, the citizen's confidence in justice and the proper functioning of the institutions of our rule of law, do you think it is only time to finally comply with GRECO's recommendation after four years? Will you take care of that point as a matter of priority? What specific measures are being put forward in the areas of training, deontology and recruitment, as you mentioned on 3 May? Is it true that you declare the low turnout for alternates' vacancies due to the limited remuneration? Will the rules on that remuneration be amended in the draft law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u31	The role of deputy judge is much older than the Code of Justice and was intended to replace professional magistrates in the event of illness, vacation or obstruction, for example through conflicts of interest. I don't think there's a question from the magistrate's office to put an end to the substitute judge's system. On the contrary, it calls for the system to be maintained. However, the GRECO working group at the Council of Europe has called for measures to reform the use of deputy magistrates. As a result, a preliminary draft law has been drawn up in consultation with the Supreme Court of Justice, the IGA, the Presidents of the courts and the peace courts and the judges in the police courts. That preliminary draft law will be submitted to the government in the near future. Provision is made for a recruitment examination and compulsory initial training with attention to deontology. As far as professional magistrates are concerned, it has always been my practice to publish vacancies regularly. This is done on the basis of the vacancy plans, in close consultation with the College of the courts and the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office, taking into account the real needs of the workload. Job vacancies were published at the end of March and a new job vacancy plan is ready for publication on 1 June. At present a total of 1 519 alternate judges and counsellors have been appointed. There are 892 alternate judges working in the peace courts, because peace judges are solely responsible for their cantons. Any peace judge may have up to six alternate judges on his side to replace him on holiday, illness or conflicts of interest. Since 2014, there has been an increase in the mobility of professional judges. That is why peace judges are now also appointed in the other cantons in the alternative. In this way, professional magistrates can also assist an existing court of peace. The further evolution of the number of candidates will of course be closely monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u32	Minister, I do not see in your reply, for which I thank you, any solution that will allow us to come out and tell you that everything is going to be all right. The numbers are really bad. Nor have you promised that half a full-time allowance will no longer be paid. So, of course, you won't have any more people. That problem won't solve itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u33	Minister, although I thank you for your reply, I do not see any concrete elements in it, such as the precise measures contained in the draft. We will probably have to wait and see. I also miss the answer to the question of what will happen to compensation. Will the rules change? I will continue to follow the theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u34	Minister, over the last few weeks, there have been several dossiers which have always dealt with a precarious residence situation for a number of people, details of which have been published in the press. For example, Secretary of State Francken quoted in De Zondag without any hesitation from a letter from the sixteen-year-old Kosovar girl Djellza. "I don't really like my brothers at all," she would have written to him. The same Secretary of State told without embarrassment on the Seventh Day that Mawda's parents had requested an exemption from the fee of 350 euros for their regularization application. The file of Mawda's family also appeared in detail in the newspaper Sudpresse. For example, we read all about the previous journey of Mawda's parents, including the previous interception in a refrigerator truck. The previous committee meetings were always screened with the argument of the secret of the investigation in order not to disseminate any further information. For that reason, as far as we were concerned, we did not even know what could justify Mawda's parents not being allowed to go to hospital, nor why the parents were not informed of this until one day after their daughter's death. If this government is really serious about the secret of the investigation, it must also ensure that personal data from files does not just appear in the press. The information relating to the family's journey prior to the very painful events of Thursday 17 May was already a secret of the criminal investigation initiated at the time of publication by Sudpresse. Moreover, it seems to us that this information was only available for the FPS Home Office. Minister, what do you think of the fact that Mawda's parents' file, including their trajectory and the previous interception in a refrigerator, ended up in the press? Is this a breach of the secret of the investigation? Secondly, how and through whom did this information end up with Sudpresse has already been investigated? Thirdly, did you address your colleagues from the government, Minister Jambon or Secretary of State Francken? Fourthly, what else will happen to settle this? Fifthly, what will you do to prevent this from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u35	Mrs Lambrecht, you are asking me to answer questions about the violation of the secret of criminal investigation. In the last sentence of your introduction, you state that it concerns information that was only available to the Home Office. So, if I understand you correctly, this is an administrative file that has no connection with my department. I can tell you that neither the Secretary of State nor myself have access to the content of the criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u36	Can you tell me, Minister, or is it being investigated how this information came to Sudpresse? That is, after all, within your competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u37	There is only an opportunity to prosecute a breach of professional secrecy or of a secret of the investigation before the court. I have no knowledge of any question as to whether that has happened in connection with this. I do not even know whether that would be necessary, because of course I do not know the content of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic909x.u38	Questions No 25590 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw, No 25720 by Mrs Els Van Hoof and No 25737 by Mr Georges Dallemagne remain. As these members are not present, I adjourn the meeting.
