ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u1	Minister, the ASL does not touch my friend who launched a public transport poster campaign this March 20th. While 95 per cent of women claim to have been the target of sexism in the public space and only 3 per cent complain, the campaign's main objectives are to raise awareness of the issue among the general public, as well as to publicize the 2014 law punishing sexism and encourage victims to address it. "Sexism is illegal," says the campaign. One woman in two does not know that the Penal Code provides for a fine of between 50 and 1,000 euros and from one month to one year in prison. "Sale bitch", "Gross tuna", "Little slut": the eye-catching texts of the three visuals raise awareness of the impact of insults on those who hear them. This campaign is financed to the tune of 20,000 euros by the Minister of Women's Rights of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, Isabelle Simonis, and in part by Minister Debaets, via the Brussels Region. The campaign's visuals were broadcast from Tuesday 20 March via STIB and TECs, with 550 and 220 advertising spaces respectively, but also in 25 SNCB stations. STIB contributes to the wide dissemination of this awareness campaign through this new partnership with Touche pas to my buddy. STIB explains that the majority of its travellers are travellers, and that it wants them to feel free, respected and safe on its lines as well as everywhere in the city. If STIB has offered its advertising spaces (only production costs are paid), the same is not true for SNCB. Mr Minister, through the resolution voted unanimously in the Walloon Parliament and the two years of work that my colleagues Mrs Morreale and Mrs Bonni have done in the Walloon Parliament, we are wondering about this difference in treatment between Wallonia and Brussels with regard to a public-interest campaign. Why does SNCB charge its advertising space for this campaign against sexual harassment? Why did SNCB not support it in the same way as STIB? How do you explain it? Do you not consider this to be inconsistent with the political line of support for the fight against violence against women, in particular the line of support for the fight against sexual harassment? Minister, would it be possible to consider extending Touche's campaign not to my friend, but to ensure that this extension can be done free of charge, at any rate at no extra cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u2	Dear colleague, the fight against harassment is essential, and it is for this reason that it has been decided to give a positive response to the request of the ASBL Touch not my buddy to broadcast the visuals of the campaign "All together against harassment" in the public space within the stations. This ASBL had contacted Publifer, the SNCB subsidiary managing the marketing of advertising spaces in the railway sector, in order to receive a prize offer. SNCB informs me that Publifer is regularly solicited for public or charitable campaigns. In general, in order to maintain fairness and not to favour one association more than another, it was decided not to grant free fees but to grant significant tariff reductions in an exceptional manner. In this context, the campaign to which you refer has benefited from a 25% rebate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think it is a shame not to make a difference because we know how many women in public transport are victims of sexism. For example, 95 per cent of women report being the target of sexism in the public space, and only 3 per cent of women report sexism. It is dramatic and I find it a pity that a public service does not provide the necessary resources for the policies that we want to put in place. Others, like STIB, do. Could you review this decision or provide a budget to pay the costs to this Publifer provider, so that this campaign does not cost this association that does everything to push a general state of mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u4	Mr Minister, in Bilzen SNCB gives a number of grounds in occupation to a modest football club. The terrain is illuminated by three lighting poles. There is a railway line 21 near the site. On the rail road, so on the basis of Infrabel, high bushes and trees grow, leaning increasingly against the lighting poles. That could create a dangerous situation. That's why the football club would like to cut the overhanging trees. The club asked SNCB, which owns the land on which the lighting posts are located, but also Infrabel, which owns the land on which the trees are located, but did not hear from either company. Minister, the trees are hanging on the ground of Infrabel. So it seems logical that the football club should turn to that company. Will you advise the company to enter into consultation with the football club about cutting the trees to avoid dangerous situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u5	Mr Raskin, the survey of SNCB and Infrabel shows that Infrabel will assume its responsibility and is already in possession of a licence to cut down the trees. There is therefore no permit to cut the trees in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u6	Minister, Infrabel will be responsible for cutting the trees. Is that the conclusion I'm allowed to draw?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u8	Is there a deadline for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u9	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u10	So there is no time limit. Infrabel's gonna bust the trees, that's the conclusion I'm allowed to draw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u11	Minister, last year a working group was set up at Infrabel to look for a sustainable and financially viable alternative to weed control on the Belgian rail network. Today, the railway manager is still using a special spray train to keep the net weed-free. That train still injects hundreds of thousands of litres of diluted pesticides and herbicides into the air every year. In addition to a technical working group at Infrabel, a working group is also active in the FPS Mobility, which aims to coordinate cooperation with various interested bodies. In response to an earlier oral question, you indicated that the working group should produce a result by spring 2018. Have the working groups at Infrabel and the FPS Mobility completed their work? If so, what is the result of that? Can you explain that? If not, when can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u12	Madam President, Minister, like my colleague Raskin, I wonder about the weeders used by Infrabel's employees to maintain our stations, including Eupen's. It is a pride for the city of Eupen that these weeds are no longer eliminated by pesticides. It's been twenty years since the city made the choice of alternative weeding without a pesticide. Recently, a collaborator of Infrabel was seen at Eupen station while watering the tracks. Following this discovery, the officials of the city of Eupen questioned the composition of the product used. Minister, what is this product used by Infrabel to maintain weed removal stations? Can you confirm to me that this is not a pesticide-based product?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to comment on the results of the technical working group. The working group, consisting of Infrabel and representatives of the three Regions, has met several times under the coordination of the Mobility and Transport FPS to discuss a plan of actions, in accordance with Parliament's resolution. At the end of May, a meeting of the working group is scheduled for a final reading and a validation of the draft action plan. Subsequently, the Working Group will consider seeking the opinion of civil society through the NAPAN Advisory Council or National Plan of Action on Plant Protection Products in Belgium. This opinion may be requested in June. After processing any comments, each party will inform its own bodies with a view to formal validation of the draft plan, which will then be submitted to Parliament. As regards the weeding of the Eupen station, SNCB informs me that, in order to de-weed at the stations, it uses only herbicides which are authorised by the regional authorities. In this regard, products containing glyphosate are still temporarily authorised in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u14	Minister, it is clear that the process is going on. Today there is no concrete result, but I can live with the fact that steps have been taken and that at the end of May a final reading is on the agenda of the technical working group. Nor do I think it would be illogical for civil society to be involved. The consultation of civil society creates a sufficiently strong basis for support, which we will hear formally. Even if you do not yet give details, which point to progress, I trust that we will be informed in good time. You've given me a timing and I'll at least follow up on the file. Together with you, I look forward to the result in the course of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u15	Minister, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u16	Minister, this question dates back a few weeks ago. SNCB sold the railway bed of the coal railway linking Genk, Ash, Maasmechelen, Dilsen-Stokkem and Maaseik a few weeks ago, for a sum of EUR 14.2 million. It is a total area of 166 hectares that would be sold as a whole. It is known that the province of Limburg is interested in buying the railway bed. Both the province and the municipalities concerned and the Flemish government have identified the coal railway as a strategic project for the province of Limburg. This is a very important tourist project that we want to develop further there. It is very useful that the old coal track can be kept in the hands of a government, either the province of Limburg or the municipalities, in order to make further progress. The connection of the seven mining sites in Limburg is both touristic and economical very interesting. There is no doubt that there are many possibilities here in terms of innovative mobility. That is why there was some surprise at the Limburg provincial government that it was suddenly announced that the railway bed at issue would be sold publicly, while discussions had been going on for some time about a possible private sale between governments. In the meantime, I understand that the public sale procedure is so far-reaching that bids could be introduced by 15 May. I may be wrong about that, but I think this is the situation. Mr Minister, these questions were topical on 17 April when I submitted the question and perhaps less now, but I am going to ask them anyway. Was there any consultation with the potentially interested local authorities, for example the local government of the province of Limburg, before purchasing the railway bed? How do you evaluate the behaviour of SNCB when it is known that such public land can have great added value in the further economic and tourist development of an area already severely affected by unemployment? That's a strange way of working. How were the local authorities and the Länder informed about the sales? What criteria has SNCB used in the selection of the sales procedure? It is therefore currently a public sale, and possibly could have been opted for a private sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that there have been several consultations with regard to the sale of the railway bed with both local authorities and the province of Limburg and the LRM. For all sales of land that are no longer necessary for its public service mission, SNCB follows its valorisation strategy by consulting the market. SNCB underlines that the province, the local authorities concerned and other known potential interested parties were informed by telephone and/or by letter about the launch of the sales procedure. When choosing the sales procedure, the starting point is always the procedure through market consultation and thus publication. On the basis of the result of this market consultation procedure or in certain very specific circumstances, mainly with regard to the site or building, an exceptional decision can be made to sell privately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u18	Madam President, Minister, you are referring to exceptional circumstances. Maybe they were available here. Anyway, SNCB has opted for a different system. I said in my question earlier that there should be an offer before 15 May. That's wrong, the bids run until June 15th. I just made a mistake reading my own notes. It seems, unfortunately, that SNCB has opted for the non-acceptance of exceptional circumstances, which might have led to a motivated private sale. I take note of that. I would ask you, Minister, to ask SNCB, as far as possible, and if you are authorized to do so, to continue to invest the proceeds of these land in the province of Limburg. These are grounds which were obtained by SNCB for an apple and an egg at the time, when the railway bed was built at the beginning of the 20th century or a little earlier, and for which we are now going to receive 15 million. Madam President, as you know, Limburg is a province that is very badly hit by economic backwardness. Besides, SNCB doesn't invest much there either. According to us Limburgers at least less than in other places. I therefore hope that SNCB will invest 15 million in the province of Limburg. That would be a good signal from SNCB. I have no doubt, Minister, that you are going to make a move towards that sympathetic province of Limburg. Thank you in advance for your help.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u19	Ms. Chair, Minister, many commuters are witnessing a significant reduction in SNCB's windows. Thus, it would appear that since October, the counters at 33 stations have also been closed in the afternoon. This desire to reduce the counters is confirmed by the ambition to sell 25% of tickets through this channel. However, human contact is often necessary, especially for elderly people or persons with reduced mobility who are not familiar with the use of automation devices. For example, older people prefer human relationships, and people with mental disabilities sometimes find it difficult to manage credit cards and automatic terminals. In addition, although these machines are reliable, they may sometimes have certain failures or be the subject of vandalism. Minister, is there a procedure to address the possible technical problems of automatons? In view of the need to keep windows, is it not possible to leave at least one person at the window for the entire day? As I said, people with reduced mobility, as well as people with disabilities, sometimes experience difficulties with automatons. Have you ever received any complaints about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u20	Madam President, Minister, the press is echoing a strong growth in ticket sales through vending machines at traditional railway stations. Between January 2015 and December 2016, the share of these machines in the total sales of these stations increased from 31% to almost 47%. However, the association Shuttles.be points out that the statistics are biased due to changes in the timetables of the traditional windows that close earlier and the systematic referral to automatons by SNCB staff at certain stations. Traditional counters are essential to the operation of a railway station. In addition to the sale of tickets, the ticket office carries out other tasks, including providing assistance to commuters in need, as well as ensuring the safety of a building open to the public. Mr Minister, do you confirm that in some stations, particularly those in Liège, Tournai and Brussels, station staff send commuters to vending machines? Are new closures of traditional windows envisaged? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u21	Colleagues, the SNCB tells me that in addition to the sale to automatons, the customer has other sales channels such as the website, the sale on the train and the mobile app. However, it should be noted that the average availability of automata in 2017 was 98.8%. In the event of an automatic malfunction, the supplement applied on board the train is automatically disabled on the equipment of the attendants. If the incident has not yet been detected, the client may be reimbursed for the surcharge from SNCB's customer service. With regard to window staff, SNCB states that it must allocate the means where they are most useful to customers. In some stations, the small number of transactions at the counters during certain periods of the day results in an inactivity rate of more than 60% of sales personnel. In this case, the presence of a person throughout the day is not justified. With regard to the accessibility of automata to persons with reduced mobility (PMR) in 2017, 124 responses were made to this issue, representing 0.001 % of the total transactions with automata. SNCB also informs me that it does not have a specific PMR typology on this subject. In addition, a customer who encounters problems with a sales automaton can enter directly into a voice link with the SNCB contact center which can then take control of the remote automaton and accompany the customer in his or her transaction. Finally, the low position of the various components and the presence of a specific base have been specially studied to facilitate the use of automatons by persons with reduced mobility, in particular persons in wheelchairs. With respect to Mr. Devin's questions, SNCB informs me that it is not the practice in SNCB's policy to systematically refer customers to automatons. Sales staff inform customers of the existence and benefits of different sales channels, such as automatons, SNCB applications, website, etc. And, at large stations, stewards proactively inform customers in queues at the counter about the possibility of using automatons, in order to limit their waiting time. There is no planned window closure until 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u22	Madam President, Minister, for some time now the lifts at the Brussels-Central railway station would suffer from frequent and varied defects. We were also told that a faulty elevator remained in a state of crisis for more than four days. This lack of operational security is a serious problem for people with reduced mobility, including users of a wheelchair or scooter. In concrete terms, this leads to scenes where such travellers are asked to travel a station first, for example to Brussels-North, and then return to Brussels-Central by another train. In addition to increasing a lot of delays, such a process is of course also considered very unpleasant by the users. Since, according to our information, no long-term solution has been proposed, I have the following questions for you, Minister. Firstly, what is the procedure and time limit in the event of a failure of a lift in a busy station such as Brussels Central? Secondly, what is the analysis of the cause of the problem? Thirdly, are there any concrete plans for a structural solution to the lack of operational security, such as placing new lifts in the existing elevator ducts? What are the concrete steps and what is the deadline? If the different steps and deadlines are not yet sufficiently known, what is your reaction to the fact that, pending a solution, this would be contrary to European and international anti-discrimination legislation which also applies to the accessibility of railway stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u23	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, SNCB tells me that she deeply regrets the problems of lifts in Brussels-Central. It therefore understands the displeasure of its commuters and their representatives. It has therefore taken this dossier to heart. SNCB considers the improvement of access to its stations and trains for persons with reduced mobility to be a very important point of attention. Its aim is to make a further 25 stations fully accessible in the period 2018/2022. It also processed 8% more requests for assistance in 2017, partly thanks to the shortening of the reservation time. In order to ensure a rigorous follow-up, SNCB maintains structural contacts with the suppliers of the lifts in Brussels-Central. The technical report tells us that between 1 April and 9 May there were a total of 6 incidents involving the three lifts in Brussels Central. Some of them were quickly resolved, others called for more extensive intervention. SNCB specifically instructed its supplier to carry out a thorough check on the three lifts. This has now been done and we are now looking for appropriate and sufficient solutions to avoid cases of vandalism, improper use of lifts and technical defects. Firstly, the lifts are still subject to preventive checks every month. Secondly, protection columns were now ordered for each elevator. Thirdly, the possible installation of shock-resistant doors is now being investigated. Fourthly, the time limit for the delivery of the supplier's technical team was contractually shortened to 1 hour instead of 4 hours. Repair may take longer. Fifthly, a stock of certain key components is now being built to speed up repairs. Finally, SNCB's security agents are now stepping up their efforts to counter vandalism and misuse. The escalator referred to in the question is not in the station itself, but in the adjacent gallery Horta. That gallery is the subject of a lease agreement with the company Zone 3 Production sprl. The agreement was concluded in 2008 with the company SHLC, which was acquired in 2016 by Zone 3 Production, which is responsible for the technical maintenance of the various installations of the gallery. The Horta gallery is therefore not directly managed by SNCB. However, additional information was requested from Zone 3 Production for the possible repair of the escalator as this escalator is part of the classified spaces, monuments and landscapes and cannot simply be restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u24	Madam President, Minister, I did not ask any questions about escalators. Maybe that was a colleague's question. You say 25 stations will be made accessible. That's all very important. It is important that accessibility is good, but here we have a problem that has been known for months, a recurring problem that has not been solved structurally. I understand from your reply that a number of measures will be taken in the short term to ensure that if there is a defect, it can be resolved more quickly. It's the least one can do. My question was also to consider how, in the longer term, we can tackle this problem in a structural way, because that is the essence of the matter. The problem arises not only in Brussels but also in other stations. What is also important to me is that users have been aware of this problem for several months and have not responded to it. It is only very recently, when users called in the media and sent Unia letters, that they were shot in action. I find that very sad. I believe that SNCB should be much faster and more active when complaints about structural problems come in and that society should not wait until it gets into the press or get complaints from Unia to deal with the situation. SNCB can therefore be a little more active if problems arise. However, I particularly expect structural solutions that go beyond short-term solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u25	Mr Minister, in the April 19 issue of the overview of Brussels, you said: "When I ask the CD&V and the Open Vld, as well as their respective presidents, to appoint me an interlocutor in the dossier, they leave me in plan with a phone call to be given". I confess that this statement leaves me puzzled. Are not your interlocutors in these parties the Deputy Prime Ministers CD&V and Open Vld? Have you raised this issue with the Prime Minister? According to Echo, you say you've been presenting a solution for months and you're waiting for it to be considered on the merits. I would like to know what proposals are involved and when you intend to table them on the table of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u26	Mrs Lalieux, in this interview, I once again stressed the most complete division, on all floors, in this dossier. Thus, trade unions do not have a single position. The same goes for employers. It's the same with riparian associations. As for the Regions, they engage each other in conflict-of-interest procedures without going through us. This is also true within the political formations themselves. Such a situation reminds us that each one has a piece of the puzzle constituting the solution. In the case of the overview, I remain in favour of a comprehensive solution incorporating the elements of several components developed earlier. However, they must be part of a general configuration. At this stage, no mandate from the government on the basis of my proposals was given to me so that I could turn to other actors. With regard to the impact study which will aim at objectiveising the situation and proposing alternative measures, the public contract designating the study office responsible for this task is about to be closed. The work of the experts will therefore be possible to begin shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u27	Minister, if I asked you this question, it is because of your statements. I was well aware that nothing new would arise from this matter, as well as that there will be nothing new by the end of the legislature. In this case, you complain that the Open Vld and CD&V refuse to discuss with you. As you are replying to me that the division is total on the part of the trade unions, employers and residents, I must remind you that they are not ministers in charge of the matter, that they are not members of the Council of Ministers and that they are not complaining about the absence of partners. In my view, you thus show your weakness in this matter and your total lack of authority towards the partners of the majority, who do not even want to engage in dialogue. Minister, don't make statements. I will then ask fewer questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u28	Madam President, Minister, here are the new statistics on the number of cyclists killed or injured on our roads: 680 injured and 9 killed in 2017 in Wallonia (the same number as in 2016) compared to 7,750 injured and 32 killed in Flanders. The spokesperson for the Walloon Road Safety Agency points out that bicycle accidents are undervalued because injured cyclists who have had an accident alone do not usually contact the police. As a result, many bicycle accidents are not recorded in the statistics. The study also shows that for 15 other fatal accidents involving a second user, "the opponent" was a car (68%). Minister, what new measures do you intend to implement in the short and medium term to improve the safety of cyclists on our roads? More specifically, what new measures do you envisage in the short and medium term, in order to reduce the number of cyclists killed on our roads?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u29	Madam President, Mr Devin, measures to improve the safety of cyclists on our roads are strongly linked to the security of infrastructure through the creation of safe and well-maintained bike paths that are not within federal jurisdiction. However, as part of the road code reform, I have been attentive to cyclists and their safety. The cycling associations were also consulted and their applications examined as part of the working group's discussions. The text has now gone for advice to the Regions. I would also like to point out that, within the framework of the objective of reducing the number of deaths by 50% by 2020, the General States of Road Safety have proposed 15 measures. So far, I have implemented twelve of them, the most recent of which is the adoption of the Road Safety Improvement Act, which aims to combat more and more severely the recurrence of unlicensed driving and uninsured driving, alcohol driving and flight offences. These are some measures to improve not only the safety of cyclists but also of all users. I would also point out that 65 per cent of the cyclists killed are apparently the only ones involved in the accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u30	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u31	Madam President, Minister, a study by the Vias Institute reveals that the number of motorcycle accidents with injuries fell by 24% in 2017. There were 3,777 accidents in 2008, for 106 deaths; there were 3,245 accidents and 65 deaths in 2017 (but 3,002 accidents and 66 deaths in 2016). However, of all road users, bikers remain involved in the most fatal accidents. In Wallonia, there are 44 bikers killed per 1,000 accidents, compared with 25 in Flanders and 6 in Brussels. In Wallonia, motorbike accidents are almost twice as serious as in Flanders and seven times as serious as in Brussels. Minister, what new measures do you intend to implement in the short and medium term to reduce the increasing number of people killed on our roads? What new measures do you envisage in the short and medium term to reduce the number of bikers killed on our roads?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the reduction of road deaths and the improvement of road safety in general, I believe that further efforts should be made to achieve the target of a maximum of 420 killed in 2020. The Law on the Improvement of Road Safety, published on 15 March, goes quite well in this direction, significantly increasing the penalties for repeat offenders and drivers who drive under the influence of alcohol. In addition, it is important that the various actors – in particular the Regions and the police – take the necessary measures within the framework of their respective competences, as the placement of radars and the increase of controls are essential to contribute to the implementation of this objective. On the other hand, the safety of motorcyclists who are particularly exposed to the risks of motorized traffic remains a focus, although the latter has improved significantly over the last ten years. The number of accidents with fatalities and injuries decreased by 24 per cent, while the number of bikers increased by 28 per cent. Improving the safety of motorcyclists requires a set of measures resulting from the analysis of the causes and characteristics of motorcycle accidents: prevention campaign; infrastructure adaptations; increased speed and alcohol controls; adaptation of the Road Traffic Code and the rules on training and driving licences; increased visibility through the wearing of retro-reflective accessories. As part of the ongoing revision of the Road Traffic Code, some adjustments will continue to be made to improve the safety of bikers. The dossier is under consideration, as for cyclists and the rest of the Road Code, subject to the opinion of the Regions. Finally, given that federal regulations apply across the country in the same way, the disparities in the findings you are referring to are likely to be linked to the differentiated exercise of regional competences that have an impact on the safety of bikers: road conditions, the placement of automatic radars, awareness and information about driving, and differences in topography and road configuration. Walloon roads are indeed characterized by many coasts, bends, etc., unlike Flemish roads.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u33	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u34	Minister, the press has echoed the request of the Dutch brokers to install the black box in the vehicles. By controlling the driving, speed and habits of users, the connected black box would reward the most prudent drivers by reducing their insurance premiums. Belgian brokers are reluctant to do so. Indeed, they highlight certain shortcomings, such as the impossibility of determining the driver of the vehicle and the lack of respect for the privacy of drivers. Minister, what is your opinion on the installation of black boxes in vehicles? Are such projects under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u35	My colleague, the European regulation on general safety will be revised shortly. One of the new measures of the revision is the mandatory introduction of crash data recording for M1 and N1 vehicles. At my request, my administration will support the introduction of this new measure. Indeed, intensifying the use of black box for the collection of data in road accidents would be a significant added value, since only authorised persons will be able to access this data to better understand the circumstances of the accident. If a Belgian insurer proposes a specific programme and the contract between the insurer and the customer is clear, I see no objection to a black box being installed in the customer's vehicle in order to reduce the insurance premium. Moreover, at least one insurer already offers a similar program in Belgium, linked to a smartphone app that constantly evaluates the conduct of the insured; and this with its agreement of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u36	Just a little clarification, minister. What vehicles are M1 and N1 categories?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u37	These are cars, vans, etc. Four-wheeled motor vehicles, but not trucks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u38	Madam President, Minister, you announced some time ago – among many other announcements – that investments were going to be made at Marbehan station for a sum of €564,000. This work would include improving the accessibility of the station to persons with reduced mobility (PMR). I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for this decision. Of course, we are pleased that such works are being carried out in this station so that it can accommodate all users in the best conditions. Today, Minister, could we have a little more details on these investments? What concrete adjustments will be made in Marbehan? Is it in terms of dock accessibility, comfort and accessibility at the station? Or are these other investments? Do you have more precise information on the schedule of the work announced? Within what time frame will they be achieved? Finally, as you may know, the municipality and various local associations are interested in the station building, have plans for activities and consider, why not, the possibility of a purchase or investment in the building. What future can be imagined for this building or for the reflection on it? Is it always possible to develop some local activities there? Is it always possible for the municipality to acquire all or part of this building?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u39	Dear colleague, as part of the improvement of the supply for people with reduced mobility, it has been decided to initially equip the stations of Arlon and Libramont with lift platforms. These are inclined lift platforms suitable for rotating staircases and/or intermediate staircases. They can adapt to most of the existing stairs in the under-lane corridors and allow the transport of PMR. The permissible load also allows the transport of PMRs equipped with a fairly heavy electric chair. The use is carried out by SNCB personnel via a remote control. The test phase, which includes the equipment of the Arlon and Libramont stations, will analyse the operation of the said equipment and devices and draw on the experience necessary to equip other stations. In case of success, the Marbehan station will be provided in 2019. In addition, upgrading and equipping the wharfs by Infrabel will improve and optimize passenger accommodation infrastructure, meet energy saving standards and reduce operating costs. This work is planned for 2018. As far as the station building is concerned, SNCB informs me that, in accordance with the principles of good administration, competition and transparency, it undertakes, when valuing its goods, a consultation of the market. A call for tenders is then launched through wide publicity. No privilege is granted to a particular person or business. Since the station is currently occupied by SNCB and Infrabel, SNCB does not envisage the sale of this property in the short term. However, for the unoccupied party, this year SNCB will launch a call for tenders for the valuation of empty premises. The municipality will be notified of this. It will be his responsibility to respond to this, in accordance with the conditions of the invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u40	Minister, thank you for your information. We will therefore invite the commune to react when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u41	Mr. Minister, your predecessor said, in addition to the presentation of his Strategic Rail Vision, would like a line-by-line analysis of the SNCB, to determine whether the train has a comparative advantage over other modes of transport (especially the bus) and where a train and bus make the same journey. She took the opportunity to highlight the importance of rail in rural areas. Minister, can you share with us the results, line by line, of this analysis or analyses that are approaching it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u42	Dear colleague, I would like to point out that in the preparation of the 2017-2020 Transport Plan, 129 applications were analysed on the basis of operational and technical criteria, including the potential of travellers, the impact on other travellers and the existence of an alternative offer. This analysis resulted in a final selection of 65 projects. It also seems to me appropriate to stress, once again, that in the 2017 Transport Plan, the rail transport offer was increased by 5.1%. These increases concern not only the main lines but also rural areas, such as that of the province of Luxembourg for its 13,267 passengers on board a day. In any event, all improvements implemented under the 2017-2020 Transport Plan will be systematically assessed to determine their relevance to the next plan. It is therefore important that these relationships are actually borrowed by enough travellers in order to sustain them. It is also important to study the appropriateness of certain routes. That is why I urge SNCB to continue its regular consultations with regional public transport companies, in particular with regard to the refinement of connections between trains and buses. Furthermore, aspects related to the adequacy of supply and the optimisation of correspondence can also be discussed at the Executive Committee of the Ministers for Mobility, which I chair. Finally, I call for a federal representative to sit on the boards of the regional public transit companies, in the same way that regional representatives have been appointed to sit on the boards of the SNCB and Infrabel, but at this stage the consultation between the Regions and the federal government seems to be only in one direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u43	Indeed, it would not be wrong if there were a federal representative in regional societies. I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u44	Mr. Minister, your predecessor had announced the establishment of a strategic platform bringing together both regional transportation companies and railways for the development of intermodality, coordinated by the SPF, with a view to better collaboration between public transport companies. The implementation of this intermodality platform was planned, in your predecessor's strategic rail vision, for the first quadrimester 2016. However, his resignation took place during this period, on 15 April 2016. It had also announced the creation of an investment unit under the coordination of the SPF comprising SNCB and lnfrabel (and any other operator), with the presence of the Regions to ensure the consistency and accuracy of investment choices. The implementation of this investment unit was planned in your predecessor's Rail Strategic Vision by October 2015. Minister, what about these platforms and coordination cells? Are they operational? If so, can you explain how it works? If not, why have they not been put in place and what alternative solution do you bring to achieve the same objective? How does coordination between companies in terms of transport supply and investment currently work? How do you envisage the evolution of coordination between companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u45	Dear colleague, the railway investment unit was created by the Law of 3 August 2016 on various provisions on mobility. The Royal Decree of 31 January 2017 determines the composition and operation of this investment unit. The opinions of this Unit relate to the investments included in the multiannual plans. The ministerial decree of 23 May 2017 appoints the members sitting in this cell. The unit is composed as follows: two representatives of the SPF Mobility and Transport, one of whom presides; two representatives of Infrabel, who sit with an advisory voice; two representatives of SNCB, each with an advisory voice. In addition, regional governments are invited to participate in the meetings of the cell. Prior to the formal creation of the investment unit by the law of 3 August 2016, the members of the unit had already met on numerous occasions and had drawn up fact sheets of strategic railway projects of the Regions. On 2 February, I asked the Investment Unit for an opinion on the draft multi-annual investment plan and the multi-year strategic investment plan proposed by Infrabel and SNCB. It met for this purpose on 8 March. All parties then discussed a draft opinion drawn up by the Mobility and Transport FPS. The final opinion of the cell was given to me on 30 March. As for the intermodal platform, it was proposed by my predecessor Jacqueline Galant. It was intended to promote consultation and cooperation in terms of public transport between the Federal and the Regions. In order to achieve these objectives, I have opted for the relaunch of consultative bodies such as the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility (ECMM) and the RER Steering Committee. Since August 2017, it has met eight times under the chairmanship of Jean-Pierre Hansen. For its part, the ECMM met nine times, one of which was chaired by Mrs Galant. Secondly, the operational coordination of transport plans takes place mainly from SNCB to TECs through permanent meetings and collaborations around the search for operational synergies between companies. For example, for the development of the 2017 transport plan, several rounds of meetings were held between SNCB, TECs and regional administrations. Initially, the information is raw to refine as it progresses, thus avoiding any surprises. In the end, i.e. about one year before the SNCB transport plan was put in place, the TECs receive the daily timetables for each train passing through the stations. It should be noted that projects are exchanged throughout the preparation of the studies. In particular, for the 2017-2020 transport plan, the TECs and SNCB made a joint presentation at the 2017 Spring Road Shows. During these meetings, the two operators explained to the elected representatives the adaptations of the joint offer of their transport plan. The current process has excellent results. For two years, operators are working on a common offer, exchanging structuring schedules in full transparency and presenting themselves together to the users to detail the changes to the offers. However, it would be appropriate for this process to improve so that SNCB can benefit from a better return to the TEC offer changes. In the end, given the results of this unprecedented method, it will also be applied for the study of transport plans from December 2020 to 2023, the work of which will begin at the end of the year. It is clear that this process was also carried out in consultation with De Lijn, STIB and the Flemish and Brussels-Capital Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u46	Minister, thank you. It's true that when everything goes well, we don't change a winning team. However, since everything is perfect, it is possible to improve the situation further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u47	Madam President, Minister, your party has tabled a motion for a resolution to preserve rail mobility in rural areas, which was voted by the majority in April 2017 under the new title "Resolution to preserve multimodal mobility in rural areas". The author considers that improving the attractiveness of rural lines requires a clear strategy and immediate action, focusing on all customers at the heart of the railway's concerns. Today, one year after the vote on this proposal, I would like to evaluate the follow-up. Minister, can you give us an update on the government's follow-up to this resolution? What specific strategy and actions are you taking to improve the attractiveness of rural lines? I would like to highlight here three requests that have been made. The second request of the resolution is "to ensure that the future management contract, the future multi-annual investment plan (MIP) and future applications for European grants will pay particular attention to the maintenance and maintenance of the infrastructure". Unfortunately, unlike the majority resolution, maintenance and maintenance of the infrastructure is neglected in the new IPP. lnfrabel announced the postponement of many infrastructure renewal works originally planned for the period 2017-2020, due to the lack of available resources, while there is a significant need for renewal of the network. An increase in the resources allocated to capacity maintenance is essential to prevent the cumulative carry-over of infrastructure renewal from becoming unenforceable, as the volume of text is large or conditioned by the decommissioning of long-term lines. Without this increase, some lines may no longer be usable after 2021. It's tomorrow! This is therefore not a particular attention but a particular neglect of the maintenance and maintenance of the infrastructure. Why didn't you put the necessary resources in place to respond to this request? The third request of the resolution is to "ensure, in future IPPs and management contracts, the maintenance and development of a sufficient and quality rail supply in rural areas". Is rural rail supply maintained in the short and long term by the new IPP and the management contract? Finally, the sixth request concerns "improvement of the attractiveness of rural lines for customers by optimising correspondence with regional public transport". Can we expect an improvement in this area? What are you doing to that end? What place do you reserve for secondary lines in your long-term vision of mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u48	Mr President, in response to the concerns that are at the root of many of the questions that you raise, Infrabel and SNCB provide me with the following. With regard to the maintenance of the rural rail supply in the short and long term, in the draft management contract 2018-2022 by Infrabel and SNCB, which are currently under discussion, we are careful not to affect the existing rural offer. In the SNCB Transport Plan for the period 2017-2020, there are no structural reductions in supply during these three years, on the contrary. In addition, with a view to continuously improving rural supply, SNCB and TECs continue to collaborate actively in the exchange of data and reflections. Thus, as part of the December 2017 Transport Plan design, TECs and SNCB built their respective offers in a very close manner. In the same ongoing process, TECs and SNCB meet operationally twice each year to exchange on ongoing projects and develop them with possible adaptations of company offers. The guarantee of maintaining a quality rural rail supply in the long term must also involve optimum cooperation with the various public transport companies and a wide range of users, both trains and buses. This is a matter of user behaviour in relation to the existing offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u49	Minister, thank you for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u50	Minister, at the hearing on the new IPP, Infrabel explained to us that, despite the significant need for renewal of the network, the IPP foresees the postponement of many renewal work initially planned for the period 2017-2020, due to the lack of available resources. I have mentioned this in my previous questions. By 2021, it will be essential to raise the level of investment in capacity maintenance, otherwise some lines could no longer be usable. An increase in the resources allocated to maintaining capacity is essential if the cumulative carry-over of infrastructure renewal is to be avoided, as the volume of work to be carried out is large or conditioned by the decommissioning of long-term lines. The representative of Infrabel shared some figures on the amounts needed to catch up with the cumulative carry-over of infrastructure renewal. However, some data are needed to complete the table. Minister, according to Infrabel, in order to catch up with the cumulative renewal carry-over, an additional €110 million will be required in 2021 and an additional €100 million in 2022 - an increase of €200 million compared to 2020. Do you confirm these figures? How many years will it take to invest these additional amounts to make the catch-up? When will this catch-up be completed? What is the present value of the sum of these future incremental expenditures? What are the avenues for identifying some of these means within the current staffing of Infrabel? What is the staffing increase that will be required from 2021 onwards to ensure this catch-up? If these global amounts are released, will the application of key 60-40 to these amounts still allow the necessary catch-up on the railway infrastructure in Wallonia? Do we need more global resources to be able, with the 40% allocated to Wallonia, to allocate the necessary catch-up? If so, what is the amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u51	Dear colleague, I believe that in order to be able to forge a precise idea as to the means that will be needed beyond 2020 to maintain a quality rail network, it is important that Infrabel first determine the state of the various components of the railway infrastructure. When these data are available and only then, it will be possible to calculate the height of the financial means necessary to guarantee on the network a quality level which still needs to be determined, as well as the extent to which the work to be planned will also be compatible with an acceptable level of operation of the network by the various railway companies. Therefore, I do not wish to comment on the amounts that will be required beyond 2020. I have already asked on several occasions for more analytical data on the state of the network, but these data have not yet been provided to me. In addition, in view of the positive development of Infrabel's performance in comparison to the debt trajectory set out in its business plan, I have asked Infrabel to use part of its margins to finance the work needed to maintain the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is surprising that Infrabel does not respond to your requests. However, your questions are relatively precise. Do you think you will receive them in the near future? Can I ask you again soon? This may put pressure and push Infrabel to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u53	Madam President, Minister, at the beginning of March our city, perhaps along with many other cities and municipalities, received a letter stating that the Harelbeke railway station is one of the projects included in the multi-annual investment plans of the railway companies. This letter states that SNCB provides for an amount of EUR 340 000 for, inter alia, the adjustment of platforms and lifts. The details of this investment would not be communicated to us until later. A correction email was sent on 20 March 2018, stating that it is not about adjusting platforms and lifts but about adjusting the platforms and replacing the escalators. However, Harelbeke has been a asking party for lifts for years. The platforms are located six meters above the street level and are only accessible via stairs. Access to the platforms is also possible via escalators. The escalators are only available to the platforms. From the platforms to the public road, passengers must go down the stairs, which is not accessible to less mobile persons and wheelchair patients, nor to passengers with luggage. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, how many cities and municipalities received a letter that they were included in the multi-annual investment plans of the railway undertakings? Secondly, how many cities and municipalities were misinformed? Were other cities and municipalities promised traffic lifts? Thirdly, what exactly are investments planned in Harelbeke? The platforms were already raised. In other words, what is being adapted to the platforms? Are both escalators being replaced? What exactly does the replacement mean? For what period are the adjustments planned? Is there better access from the platforms to the public road? Can the possibility be explored to install a lift or at least provide the station with a sloping surface, so that wheelchair patients, less mobile persons as well as passengers with luggage can move more easily from the platforms to the public road?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u54	Madam President, Mr Top, on 2 February 2018, the Council of Ministers approved the multiannual investment plans 2018-2020 and the strategic multi-annual investment plans 2018-2031 of SNCB and of Infrabel. Through these investment plans, the government invests no less than 5.3 billion euros in the Belgian railways. Safety and comfort for the passengers are always central to this. I have therefore sent a letter to all municipalities for which important investments are planned. Unfortunately due to sloppy cutting and sticking in the letter for Harelbeke an error crept in the description of the investments. The day the press article was published, the error was discovered and my associate immediately contacted you to inform you about the investments made and to apologize for the error. The objective is to make the platforms of Harelbeke fully accessible from the public road. SNCB is currently examining the various possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u55	Mr Minister, it is correct that we and the people of Harelbeke have already received a call to improve the letter, but I would like to urge you to examine further the accessibility of the platforms. After all, this is a big difference in altitude, which means that less mobile people can reach the platforms but can go down less well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u56	Madam President, Minister, the trains drove less punctually in March 2018 compared to a year earlier. This is demonstrated by the joint punctuality figures of Infrabel and SNCB. Also in January and February the punctuality deteriorated. The responsibility for these delays would lie, for the most part, with third parties, i.e. 38.1%. This includes accidents and, in particular, runaways. Despite various efforts, such as awareness campaigns and closure, the number of track runners continues to increase according to Infrabel. It would also be known that commuters often take a shortcut during the morning and evening pits. Minister, what number of runners has caused effective obstacles to rail traffic over the last three years? Is there an analysis of the motives of the track running, for example on the basis of Securail's written minutes? If so, what are these reasons? If not, would you like to make these reasons clear with a view to defining a strategy to reduce the number of runners? When working on railways, will appropriate signalling be provided for pedestrians and cyclists in order to inform them in good time? If so, at what distance of the works are such signs provided and alternatives offered to cross? If not, do you intend to give the order to provide for this standard in the context of reducing the number of runners? Sometimes travellers say that they are suddenly confronted with work or a detour that they were not aware of in advance. As a result, the risk of them taking the shortest but unsafe road is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u57	Mr President, I would like to refer you to the annex I have presented to you in relation to the number of traffic reports recorded over the last three years. In it you will also find an overview of the different causes of trespassing. When working on a road crossing, they are always sufficiently marked for the different road users. This is done in consultation with the local government or with the province. It also depends on whether alternatives are identified at local level. If there is another road, bridge or tunnel nearby, the crossing is completely closed and cannot be used during the duration of the works. If there is no alternative in the vicinity, measures will be taken to ensure that pedestrians and as far as possible also cyclists cross safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for the answers and the figures you have given me. This is interesting. It also shows a marked increase between 2015 and 2017, from 573 to 807. That's remarkable, isn't it? For the rest, I will read your answer carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux has converted 25217 into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Cheron, Mr 25319, Mr 25320 and Mr 25321 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u60	Mr Minister, figures you gave me earlier show that the number of cases of leakage from freight trains has increased remarkably in recent years. From 9 cases in 2013, it increased to 41 in 2017. Almost all incidents are sidetracked. The transport of liquids via freight trains is not without risk. Some fluids can be dangerous. Leaks, which release small amounts of that liquid, can also lead to major delays or even to the complete shutdown of train traffic. How do you explain the remarkable increase in leaks? Often the leakage would be due to the presence of condensation water, at least in the previous answer. How often was that the case? How many times was there another cause? What fluids have leaked in recent years? How do you intend to reduce that increase?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u61	It is the railway undertakings which are active in the transport of goods, which are primarily responsible for the increase in leaks on freight trains. The actual cause of the increase in the number of leaks should be checked by the railway undertakings. It is possible that increasing the number of checks at the departure of a freight train has resulted in an increase in the number of leaks detected. Better training with regard to regulation of RID transports, dangerous transports, may also have worked to lower threshold levels to report leaks. In the case of leaking boiler cars, the necessary safety measures are always taken to protect staff and traffic. In most cases, the fire department gets alerted. It determines whether or not condensation water is present. The recording and documentation of the incident does not always specify whether it concerns condensation water or leaking liquids, which makes it impossible to provide figures. The most common leaks were detected with flammable liquids, hazard class 3, and corrosive liquids, hazard class 8. To a lesser extent these are toxic substances, hazard class 6.1, and various dangerous substances, hazard class 9. Increasing the preventive controls by Infrabel and the DVIS, the Safety and Interoperability Service of the Railways, as well as the application of the safety rules, which prevent a leaking wagon from leaving, will increase attention to the problem. Hopefully this will lead to a reduction in the number of cases of leakage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u62	Minister, DVIS and Infrabel's policy is strictly controlled to avoid leakage and possible negative consequences. That's good news. For the rest, it was a very comprehensive answer, but you could not answer all my specific questions, as some figures were not available on the basis of the fire department report. I will read your answer again in peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u63	Madam President, Minister, SNCB and Infrabel are among the country's largest landowners. Not all the grounds in their possession are necessary for the public service. The companies try to maximize the value of these land by selling them or renting them out. I have two specific questions. Firstly, are SNCB and Infrabel using a fixed rental and selling price per square metre? If so, how many? If not, what criteria are involved in determining the rental or selling price of a property? Secondly, what revenues have the companies obtained from these unused land over the past five years? What are the rental revenues and which of the sales? I liked to receive annual numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u64	Madam President, Mr Raskin, land and buildings, which SNCB needs or will need, but which are not fully exploited, are managed as optimally as possible. In doing so, all or part of them are made by means of domanial concessions. This can be about occupation of premises and/or sites. In addition, SNCB also owns a number of buildings and land that it no longer needs for its public service tasks. These areas are being valorised. This gives preference to sales over other valorisation options. The sales are scheduled according to priority: first the quick wins and empty station buildings. In order to determine the minimum selling price, SNCB has several sources at its disposal, such as similar sales in the region and the estimation by the Federal Procurement Committee or professional treasurers. SNCB's principle is that the market should be questioned in order to treat all potential candidates equally and to give them the opportunity. With Infrabel, the valorisation operations are rather sporadic. In principle, the restructuring undertaken by the railway group carried out only the real estate necessary for the public service. In these cases, the sale also takes place on market terms, whereby the Federal Procurement Committee assesses the sales value. Infrabel does not rent out its plots, but supplies land that lies in a talud or beside the tracks and is not immediately necessary for the operation of the railway infrastructure, domanial concessions, etc. These concessions provide that Infrabel may terminate at any time, with a notice period of three months. The figures given in relation to the proceeds of the sale and domanial concessions are set out in the Annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'll get the numbers from your employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u66	Minister, the train drivers have been complaining about their status for some time now. On the other hand, private railway companies such as DB Schenker are feverishly looking for such employees. Previous figures I received in response to my written question number 1807 showed that there is also a shortage of train drivers for the provision of the service as planned. Moreover, the age pyramid of train drivers is already suggesting that the problem will only increase in the coming years. It is difficult to find enough train drivers on the Dutch-speaking side. In order to reduce the outflow, SNCB introduced a one-year notice period for train drivers. Earlier, a train driver pulled the press because he deliberately slowed down to get his resignation. The question arises as to whether SNCB can cope with what the competition train drivers offer in terms of remuneration and practical commitments concerning, among other things, the number of days of night and weekend work, holiday arrangements and job satisfaction. There is EUR 13 million to upgrade the profession of train driver. The discussions on this issue are apparently in full swing. I also believe that there is a kind of benchmark between SNCB and its competitors. Minister, what are the advantages of a train driver job at SNCB compared to its competitors? Does SNCB have a clear view of this? How does SNCB motivate its train drivers not to work for competition? How many train drivers started in 2017? How many have left the company, split into dismissal and retirement? Can you explain more about the budget to upgrade the train driver's profession on the railways? Is it a one-off expenditure of EUR 13 million or is it allocated annually?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u67	In 2017, 212 directors left the operational framework and 322 were recruited. I answer in French and Dutch, depending on the questions asked. As part of the measures taken to increase the attractiveness of the train driver's profession, the SNCB and the trade unions represented in the joint consultation bodies have met in recent weeks under the chairmanship of HR Rail. SNCB informs me that it intends to develop the profession of train driver, on the one hand, by increasing purchasing power, and, on the other hand, by improving well-being. SNCB stresses that it intends to offer a package that is well-measured compared to other professional categories within SNCB, and more aligned with other conventional rail transport operators. In return, SNCB expects a 2% increase in the productivity of train drivers to better prepare society for future liberalisation, and to move closer to the level of productivity and flexibility of other operators. This increase in productivity is largely offset by an increase in purchasing power. It will have no impact on the level of security. At the first meeting on 9 February, it had been agreed to address the various themes in the following weeks, ranging from qualitative to financial and organisational aspects. The interlocutors had agreed to organize their discussions following a tight timing including weekly working group meetings and field briefings in May. When we compare the train driver's job at SNCB and private companies, we see that the train driver's job at SNCB offers many advantages. Let me sum them up. There is clearly more attention to work-life balance at SNCB. For example, the working day for SNCB is limited to a maximum of 9 hours. In private companies, this can go up to 16 hours, although with breaks in between. With SNCB the shift starts and ends in Belgium and always in the same depot. SNCB offers job security. Anyone who can't handle the physically demanding job will not lose his job, as is the case with private companies. The fact of being part of a large group in a stable environment with passenger trains is also considered an advantage, as is the favourable pension scheme. SNCB pays its train drivers for the full duration of the 50 week training. The basic wage of a starting train driver is 1 700 euro net. Thanks to shift and weekend work, this average amounts to 1 900 to 2 400 euros. The remuneration of competitors is on average about 20% higher. On the other hand, drivers have to work more days there and show very high flexibility. The work often takes place at night at very difficult hours. The question is whether the worker can sustain this until retirement age. In addition, the social safety net in case of problems, such as medical disability, is much less or even not present, which presents a considerable risk to the train driver. The train drivers at SNCB are satisfied because they transport passengers, a human aspect which cannot be underestimated. SNCB offers opportunities for growth and a strong collective atmosphere among train drivers. SNCB offers its staff and their entire family free train services in the Benelux, as well as 4 vouchers per year to travel with Thalys or Eurostar. There are also meal cheques and hospitalization insurance. There is also the economical health insurance fund of the railways.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I will certainly read it in the report. I believe that there is a need to be vigilant in the case of SNCB. As you yourself have said, wages are higher with competitors, and that is often the first reason why train drivers make the switch. You didn't really answer my question about the 13 million. Is that a one-time expense to re-raise the profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u69	Yes, indeed, it will happen only once.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u70	I hope, then, that it actually goes to the train drivers themselves and not to back-up investments, for example, because I have heard that this might be the case. I'll keep following it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u71	Minister, everyone is aware that serious work will and must be carried out on the tunnels in Brussels. During the summer months, the Leopold II tunnel would be completely closed. Serious nuisances are expected for car mobility in the capital. Therefore, there are all kinds of alternative measures, including more trains by SNCB. The capacity on lines S3, S4 and S10 and line 60 would be increased. I read that in the paper. Mr Minister, could you explain a little more about the additional measures taken by SNCB in connection with the work in the Leopold II tunnel? What are the precise measures per railway line? Is capacity expansion achieved by increasing the number of trains or by increasing the capacity of seats on existing trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u72	SNCB informs me that it has committed itself to increasing the capacity of trains on the S10 link Aalst-Brussels-Dendermonde during peak hours in summer, by increasing the number of seats by 280 seats per train and bearing the associated costs, and, on the other hand, if the other trains on the line were overcrowded during the summer, to retain two P-trains on line 60. It is about peak hour reinforcement that arrives in Brussels at 7 a.m. and leaves for Dendermonde at 7 a.m. 35. This summer, SNCB will follow the train occupation carefully throughout the entire work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic898x.u73	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I welcome the fact that SNCB provides additional capacity and thus responds to better mobility in the capital. It will benefit everyone. I believe that this is the right attitude on the part of SNCB.
