ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u1	Minister, this question was first addressed to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I tabled it last year in the form of a written question. I did not get an answer and I see that it is on the agenda today, but that it is addressed to you. Minister, some statistics on people who became Belgian in 2016 have been published in the press. The information would be the result of a government response to a parliamentary question. In this context, the figure of 27,727 persons who became Belgians was mentioned, of whom 2,117 were naturalized. Could you detail this figure, specifying on what legal basis the other changes in nationality have been made? For example, I would like to know how many were carried out on the basis of Article 12a (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5), and how many were carried out on the basis of the automatic allocation provided for in Articles 12 and (8) of the NBC.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u2	Mrs Ben Hamou, in response to your written question, I am sending you by e-mail all the figures on changes of nationality during 2016. Here you will find a table with these figures by nationality entitlement code. The criterion used for these data is "previous non-Belgian nationality and current Belgian nationality". You have already received a written reply from the Minister of Justice, No. 2270. I hope I've provided you with all the data and information you were looking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u3	Minister, I find it a pity that I have not been notified. I sent an e-mail to the Secretary of State. The question had been filed in written form and I had not received an answer. At the timing level, this is regrettable, especially since it was the request of an association. Thank you, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u4	Chairperson: Nawal Ben Hamou.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u5	Madam President, Minister, a new phenomenon is currently growing in the area of narcotics: the use of social networks to trade in them. As a result, applications and sites such as Instagram, Snapchat, Facebook or Tinder are increasingly being used by dealers to sell their substances. The principle is simple: an anonymous account invites the contact then most often proposes to send, for virtual money, the products via the post. On the Facebook network, secret groups are even dedicated to this trade. In France, a young man was recently arrested following a transaction of this type, having provided his personal address on a social network. Of course, those responsible for these networks are disclaiming their responsibility by referring to the rules of use which prohibit any trade in illicit substances, even in countries where they are legalised. Nevertheless, several journalists tried the experiment and managed to get in touch very easily with online resellers. This situation is challenging as it facilitates things, both for sellers and buyers. It also greatly complicates the work of investigators. Minister, I am sure you are following the evolution of this issue. What tools do you have to fight this new scourge? Do you believe that further steps should be taken in this regard? In concrete terms, have our police services ever been confronted with such cases and, if so, how many? Thank you for your answers and the follow-up you will give to this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u6	Mr Flahaux, the phenomenon to which you refer is unfortunately neither new nor unknown to our police services. In general, it refers to the use of new technologies by criminals. We must note that while the existence of these modus operandi is a reality, the increasing evolution of their use, especially by the younger ones, puts our services at a particularly difficult challenge. At present, it is difficult to reflect an accurate and quantified picture of the situation. I hope that we can improve this image. This is why the General National Police Services Data Bank has just been adapted to incorporate some modus operandi related to the use of new technologies. Given the emergence of the phenomenon, it is clear that local and federal police forces incorporate this data into investigations. Arrests in so-called "classical" investigations may thus be linked to the use of new technologies without specific data being available. In terms of a comprehensive strategy, it should be recalled that the comprehensive security framework note and the National Security Plan provide for the integration of the use of new technologies within the framework of the police function, in this case the judicial police. More than ever, our police services must be active in crime detection, for example, on networks or on the Internet. Of course, this approach is not limited to drug-related crime alone. The activity is reflected, for example, in the possibility of monitoring social networks during the organisation of large-scale festive events, which inevitably generate a large amount of drug trafficking. This type of operation, which I encourage, has already been carried out and will be carried out again this year. Beyond this, local and federal police search services must guide their search for information in the light of this reality. They can count on the support of the borough and federal computer crime units, the RCCU (Regional Cyber Crime Unit) and the FCCU (Federal Cyber Crime Unit). The law of 25 December 2016 adapting the specific methods of research provides for expanded possibilities for the police to infiltrate and make findings under a fictitious identity on the Internet, including the darknet, subject to authorization by the Public Prosecutor's Office. This option is particularly useful in the fight against this illegal drug trafficking. The necessary measures shall be taken in connection with the implementation of this Law. Finally, with regard to repression, it is clear that investigative methods still need to evolve in order to meet this ever more mobile crime. We need to continue to invest in the development of IT tools for the ever more flexible use of telecommunications data. Virtual sites supporting the commission of offences must be immediately closed, in collaboration with the judicial authorities. This must go hand in hand with the search, often beyond our borders, for the perpetrators of these crimes. That is why I stress the importance of partnerships at European level in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u7	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his full response. This phenomenon is indeed growing. I believe that it will still be necessary for the operators of the sites not to give up their share of responsibility. On the other hand, it is clear that the problem of drugs, even through the supply of drones, can be a factor that will need to be taken more into account. Finally, I note that the police forces you lead must follow a phenomenon that tends to accelerate even faster than the equipment or training of the police forces themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u8	Minister, a study conducted in 2015 revealed the poor physical condition of police officers over the age of 40. Their body mass index was above standards. Unfortunately since then, no fitness sports program has been offered to them, while the sporting event for aspiring athletes has been strengthened. It is rather regrettable to note that there is no control over the physics of the police once they are in office. I also wonder about the fate of police officers who are no longer fit enough. What can be done to help them? Even more serious, police officers have to pay for their own sports subscription if they want to stay fit and therefore engage in an activity outside their hours of service. Last year, I asked you about the elimination of sports hours in most police areas. You then told me that the head of the corps had the possibility of maintaining two hours of sports a month for his police officers, but there was nothing to force the police to do sport collectively. Yet in 2015, you expressed your wish to see police officers in good physical shape, unfortunately the Federation Sportive of the Belgian Police, which has more than 3000 members, and whose aim is to encourage the practice of all sports both within the federal police and in all police areas, saw its subsidy decrease by 20%. It would therefore be high time to introduce hours of sport within the police in a structured manner, in order to strengthen Circular GPI 37. It is a matter of the effectiveness of the police during interventions and ultimately of the safety of all citizens. Minister, what can you expect for police officers who are not physically fit and who are therefore likely to be less effective in the field? How can we ensure that police officers remain fit throughout their careers? What about the budget allocated to the Federation Sportive of the Belgian Police? Would it not be time to introduce, in a structured way, suitable sports activities for all the different police services during their working hours? Indeed, it seems to me quite abnormal that police officers have to pay for their own training after their working hours!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u9	Mrs Ben Hamou, indeed, sports activities are well planned for the police as recalled in circular GPI 37 which you refer to. They are of two types: the former are activities prescribed by the authority and recorded as hours of service dividing themselves into activities related to violence control training and functional training related to the preparation of operational missions. Indeed, physical restraint skills represent two of the four pillars of the control of violence, violence with and without weapons, which is the subject of circular GPI 48. Second sports activities are not prescribed by the authority and are performed outside hours of service. It is the responsibility of the responsible authority - taking into account the needs of the service, the availability of staff and the availability of service vehicles and the budgetary space - to stimulate and facilitate such activities by organising a suitable service schedule, providing for a subscription, etc. A potential accident will be considered an occupational accident if certain conditions are met. Similarly, participation in a competition is outside the scope of paid activities but can be encouraged as a public relationship. There are many examples relayed by the press. A flat-rate accounting of hours of service is then possible with the consent of the responsible authority. In this context, where each representative gives his or her own instructions, the role of the supervisory authority is limited to stimulating the practice of sport. For its part, the Internal Occupational Prevention and Protection Service (ISPP) under the Commissioner General of the Federal Police emphasizes through all available channels the importance of sport and healthy eating to maintain the physical fitness of all staff members. It also recalls that while it is true that the employer is responsible for his staff and therefore for his health, it is also the responsibility of everyone to remain fit. As part of an ongoing project on absenteeism, the department stresses the importance of proactively addressing the issue in order to avoid absenteeism rather than remedy it by maintaining healthy staff, in particular, through more intensive sports practice. Every year, the ASBL Federation Sportive of the Belgian Police receives from the Federal Police a subsidy, according to the royal decree, "as an intervention in the costs incurred for its operation, the promotion of sport, the organisation of tournaments and the participation in a number of international sporting meetings." Président: Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u10	This amount has been 8 000 euros since 2014 and has therefore not changed since my arrival. It is up to the management of the staff to monitor the correct use of this subsidy. Each year, the ASBL provides details of the expenditures made, mainly in respect of the payment of annual contributions, the purchase of medals, insurance, etc. Finally, as already stated, each agent is free to encourage the practice of sport and even to grant a few hours of service to do so. At the federal police, the practice was to upgrade to the DGA and DGR level until the rising level of the threat made its application impossible. A resumption of this practice, since the workload for the police will allow it, is therefore entirely conceivable and even desirable for the well-being of the officers. The sports infrastructure of the federal police is primarily used for activities prescribed by the authority. They can be made available to police officers for private training where possible and thus avoid having to pay for an external subscription. However, there is currently no structured organization of this practice, which is not provided for in the budgeting of infrastructure expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the trade union organisations representing civil protection personnel have recently been moved by the ongoing plans for the conversion of their members as part of the reform and closure of the barracks, particularly in Ghlin and Libramont. Indeed, they fear that the proposals on the table will lead them mainly to missions planned for the future DAB or other services such as prison guards, for example. Their concerns are understood, especially since the personnel referred to here consist of real professionals trained and trained at missions that are closer to those of firefighters with special qualifications (divers, intervention at Seveso sites, etc.).). However, it would appear that conversion to relief areas is not the preferred option. Minister, what about consultation with trade union organizations? What are the current leads on the table? Is the conversion of the personnel concerned to the relief areas an option? If so, will resources be made available for the areas concerned? What are the procedures for this transfer? Do they include selection tests? Moreover, what about the current means of operation, while the barracks being called to close are expected to remain operational until 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u13	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, for staff looking for a position outside civil protection, the possibilities for professional conversion on the table are those I had already given and presented on 18 October 2017, during a topical debate in this committee. Within the Internal FPS, it is possible to follow up on internal job offers, inter alia for the functions of Calltaker 112, for functions within the centres of the Office of Foreigners as well as for functions within the other services of the Internal FPS that wish to be strengthened. In addition to the Internal CPS, my services are looking for potential vacancies for emergency preparedness personnel and are working with FPS Finance, FPS Justice, Federal Police and Infrabel to this end. I also confirm the possibilities of mobility to emergency areas. Three draft royal decrees have been drafted. The trade union negotiation of these three projects will take place within the Joint A Committee for the Civil Service as soon as they are discussed at first reading by the Council of Ministers. A first draft royal decree allows each relief zone to appeal to candidates reserved for operational civil protection personnel. The project foresees that the pay burden will be borne by the Inland FPS for three years in a degressive manner. The number of operational staff who will benefit from this vocational retraining route will depend on the number of jobs that will be declared vacant by the rescue areas or by the SIAMU. Two other draft royal decrees provide for mobility to the West Flanders relief zone 1 and to the Hainaut-Centre relief zone, respectively, of 9 and 7 operational civil protection officers in the context of the North Sea pollution-related missions (Western Flanders 1) and the protection of SHAPE facilities (Hainaut-Centre). The financial intervention of the Internal FPS, in this context, is not limited in time, as you know. In all three cases, the relief zone organizes a competition that includes one or more tests, including an oral interview. The means of operation of the units to be closed from 1 January 2019 shall be maintained until the end of 2018. These resources are used to finance, on the one hand, all the contractual and recurrent expenditure of the four units in question and, on the other hand, the urgent and daily expenditure incurred in connection with their operations. As long as these four units are operational, financial resources are provided for their day-to-day operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u14	Minister, thank you. You have told us about callmakers, but do you know that we are also experiencing a problem at this level at the CIC in Mons where there was only one commitment. In this regard, I was questioned this morning by the staff. Are there any solutions? I know this is not part of my question, but you mentioned this issue in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u15	I am referring to the answer I gave last week on the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament A written question by Mrs Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u18	Minister, on Tuesday 27 February, you signed an agreement with Secretary of State Francken with the British Minister for the Interior, Amber Rudd, to deal jointly with the problem of transmigration. According to the press, Belgium and Britain will soon launch a joint message campaign to counter false messages from smugglers. In addition, there will be a better exchange of information between the two security services through the appointment of a single point or contact. Finally, Britain will provide people and resources to help with Belgian actions. That is not new, because in your answer to my question No. 23 353 on a new ferry line between Ostend and Ramsgate, for example, you announced that British colleagues in the UK border force will provide assistance at the terminal for border control with camtech and C02 measurement, following the example of cooperation in Zeebrugge. On the same day, the VRT also had an interview with Europol boss Rob Wainwright. He acknowledges that smugglers use different hubs in Belgium to get immigrants to Britain. However, Europol does not have any data on an increase in the number of transmigrants on Belgian territory. In addition, Mr Wainwright noted that smugglers were becoming more professional but also more ruthless. Europol has a list of 70 000 persons who may be involved in human trafficking. In the press we also heard that in February 2018 36 transmigrants were arrested in Zeebrugge, 18 in Veurne and 13 in Groot-Bijgaarden. Mr President, in addition to the three points raised, have any further agreements been reached with the British? Can you give an insight into the figures you presented to your British colleagues to show the problems with transmigrants in Belgium? I also refer to my previous questions, which show that the problem is mainly in France and Belgium and much less in the Netherlands. Has Britain, in addition to assistance in Ostend and Zeebrugge, granted additional people and resources? How many people and resources are we talking about? Where will they be deployed? Is it true that there are plans to make similar agreements with the Netherlands and France? What stage are these negotiations at? Can you tell us the timing within which agreements can be reached in this area? How do your services work with Europol to add persons suspected of smuggling to their list? How many people have your services announced to Europol in recent years to add to the list? Is there also an interaction? In how many cases were your services tipped off by Europol about the presence of a smuggler in Belgian territory or vice versa?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u19	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, at the end of January an action plan was proposed that includes private surveillance at night for five motorway parkings in the direction of the coast. Every day police control actions would also be organised in the stations and on the trains leading to those highway parkings. In your reply of 31 January to my parliamentary question on this point, you clarified that the necessary police personnel are provided for the actions and that an additional market is being opened for the surveillance of highway parking by private security companies under the direction of the police. Pending this, additional personnel are already being deployed by the police to oversee, among other things, Jabbeke's highway parking. In 2017, 5 171 irregular foreigners were found by the police in the province of West Flanders. That figure also comes from an answer to a parliamentary question. On 26 February, so recently, you held discussions on the issue in London. There it was agreed that there would be an information and detachment campaign aimed at transmigrants and human smugglers. British support would also be provided to dismantle smuggling networks. The latter is not insignificant, as smugglers operate as companies that constantly move the market, it is said. Finally, additional information will be exchanged in order to get a full picture of the problem. Firstly, the number of irregular foreigners found last year was 5 171. Can you give a breakdown of the number of police areas? How does that figure relate to the figures for 2015 and 2016 respectively? Secondly, is it possible to make a first evaluation of the action plan launched at the end of January? For example, can you give figures for the various motorway parks involved in our country? Thirdly, is it true that in the meantime there is a shift in the problem? To what extent is the private sector already engaged? Fourthly, how many transmigrants were found at the motorway park in Westkerke from April to July, when the parking was closed, from July to October, when the parking lot was under private surveillance; from mid-October to the end of January, when there was no private surveillance, and since 1 February, again with surveillance? The impact of the measures can be assessed on the basis of that case. Finally, could you elaborate on the arrangements made in London? What's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u20	Minister, how many transmigrants were arrested in January and February of this year and where?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u21	I'll e-mail a table per police area of the number of intercepts. These are the totals: in 2015 there were 3 296, in 2016 there were 7 221 and last year there were indeed 5 171. I will also give a table in relation to the evolution of the number of transmigrants found on the highway parkings with supervision and without................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the one hand there is private surveillance at 5 parkings per night and that changes from night to night. On the other hand, the dirco's organise daily actions. The table you will receive from me contains the results per parking lot for the period from the end of January to the 4th of March, so last week, that is 12 parking lots. Mrs Battheu, you specifically asked how many transit migrants were found at the motorway park in Westkerke. In the period from 1 April to 4 July 2017, when the parking was closed, there were 0. In the period from 4 July to 12 October, with private surveillance, there were also 0. In the period from 12 October to 31 January of this year, when the parking was not under private supervision, there were 5. Since 1 February 2018 there have been 3. The Westkerke car park has only been included in the private surveillance schedule since 24 February. Those 3 transit migrants, which I was just talking about, were found there before February 24th. At a meeting in London on 26 February with Home Secretary Amber Rudd, it was agreed to develop a joint and targeted communication campaign to provide transit migrants with correct information on the procedures applied in the United Kingdom and to undermine the false messages of smugglers. Furthermore, the exchange of information on illegal migration and trafficking in human beings will be strengthened and accelerated, including by sending a Belgian police officer to the UK Border Intelligence Centre in Folkestone. Cooperation on the security of Belgian seaports will also be stepped up. Cooperation will also be extended inland, e.g. in car parks along the motorways. Today, policemen from the UK are already present in the port of Zeebrugge and they will now work more inland. In the short term, at the initiative of Belgium, a ministerial consultation will also be organised with France and the Netherlands to arrive at a common approach to transit migration for the four countries. At the moment, the services concerned are brought into contact with each other with a view to realising the agreements made. From the beginning of April, a LO of the federal police in Folkestone will be deployed. He will identify, among other things, the many channels for the exchange of information on transmigration and smuggling of human beings and make recommendations on how to reach structural agreements with the British. Good cooperation with the UK in the port of Zeebrugge will be extended, including more inland, for example on the parkings along the highways or here in Brussels. This will enable smuggling networks to be identified more quickly and thus dismantled. The practical nature of the cooperation will be developed between the departments concerned. I wish to begin discussions with neighbouring countries as soon as possible, as I mentioned at the London meeting. We are preparing it now. The Foreign Affairs Office shall be informed by the police of any interception of a transmigrant by means of an administrative report. In 2014 there were 1 891. In 2015 there were 3 916. In 2016, there were 9 915. In 2017, there were 9 347. In January of this year it was 867 and in February 619. In the context of the EU policy cycle on serious and organised crime, the police participate in several actions under the operational action plans on illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. In addition, the police feeds relevant operational analysis projects at Europol and regularly participates in operational meetings organised at Europol. I cannot answer some of Mr Vermeulen's questions, as they relate to the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am impressed by the number of administrative reports, but I still have some caution, because in 2016 and 2017, there will be between 9 000 and 10 000 administrative reports. If I go on to January and February, we are certainly not about that, when I thought January and February were very intense months. We'll see what the end result is. I am very pleased with the way in which we are working with the British, with the involvement of the federal police liaison officer in Folkestone to work on structural solutions and with the fact that cooperation with the British is not limited to the port area, but also extends further inland.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u23	Mr Minister, I will look into and analyse the figures in the tables you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo (PPE). - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Calvo on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u25	Mr President, Minister, in three years' time the number of CVs against security agents and companies appears to have increased by more than 40%. Figures from the Department of Private Security, the Home Office, show that 973 PVs were drawn up last year. Not everyone would carry the mandatory identification card and many agents would not have received the appropriate training. The lack of integrity in the search of private items also seems to be a problem. When discussing the draft law regulating private and special security, I warned against possible confusion. We are going to ask ourselves who is allowed to do what, and we are wrongly going to assume that security people are allowed whatever the police say. If appropriate training is not followed in some cases, there is a risk that security officers themselves may not always know exactly how to search. That is why I would have liked an answer to a number of questions. For what reasons do not all security officers receive proper training? Is there a capacity problem? What steps will you take to prevent this? The number of 973 pvs is very high. What actions will you take to reduce this number? Were all the surveillance firms sufficiently informed about the new legislation? If not, what steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u26	Minister, the VRT reported, on the basis of data from the Internal FPS Private Security Control Unit, that the number of reports against private guarding officers had increased by 40% in three years. Last year, 973 PVs were written against security agents or companies. The most frequently identified offences relate to the absence of identification cards. The carrying of this card is however a legal obligation. There is also a lack of integrity during searches of personal effects, such as bags. During the superficial palpation of the clothes, the inspection must be carried out by a person of the same sex as the person who is subjected to the search, which, in fact, seems not to be sufficiently respected. When we know that Belgium has nearly 20,000 security officers on duty, and when we know the tendency of this government to grant more and more missions to private security, we have the right to question ourselves, and to fear for the safety of citizens and for the respect of their rights. Minister, how do we interpret this 40% increase in the number of PVs against private custodians? How do you intend to respond to this problem of non-compliance with identification and search procedures? Do you intend, despite the relevance of these figures, to pursue the application of a model that leaves more and more room for private security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u27	Mr President, Minister, professional private security companies are becoming an increasingly important partner in security policy. A number of figures emerged from the report of the Department of Private Security of the Federal Department of the Interior. Last year, 973 P.V.s were drafted against a company of security agents. That is a serious increase in the number of CVs. Colleagues have already mentioned the most frequent infringements. It is important that, on the basis of the report, the supervisory authority itself does not want to draw any conclusions for the whole sector. Furthermore, Professor of criminology Marc Cools stated in a response that the report mainly shows that more and more controls are being carried out in the sector. The more checks, the more calls are made on the sector and the more controls, the higher the figures. We are told that there is still a lot of work to be done in the nightlife, where it is often small firms that are responsible for surveillance. Minister, do you confirm the figures quoted? Can you tell us which infringements were mainly detected and what sanctions were against them? Is it true that there's still a lot of work to be done in the nightlife? What specific measures could be taken here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the number of inspections carried out by the Home Office in the private and special security sector: 248 in 2013, 664 in 2014, 670 in 2015, 674 in 2016 and 648 in 2017. As you can see, the number of checks from 2014 to 2017 was about constant. In 2014, there was more than a doubling compared to 2013. Since 2015, we have had more precise statistics on the distribution of controls. The above figures relate to private surveillance and special safety together. Focusing on private surveillance, the number of checks on some units is about the same, namely 548 in 2015, 566 in 2016 and 553 in 2017. In the private surveillance and special security sector, the FPS Interior has established the following number of CVs: 434 in 2013, 674 in 2014, 901 in 2015, 1 082 in 2016 and 1 210 in 2017. So you will notice that while the number of checks from 2014 to 2017 is almost the same, the number of CVs increases. As of 2015, in the surveillance sector there were 630 PVs in 2015 which included 960 infringements; 906 PVs in 2016 which included 1 326 infringements and 973 PVs in 2017 which included 1 362 infringements. I can therefore confirm that the number of controls has increased significantly as a result of the establishment in 2014 of a specific Directorate responsible for the operational control of the sector and, in particular, through the recruitment of controllers. There has now been a stabilization of the number of checks on an annual basis, as well as an increase in the number of reports and infringements, in view of a stronger targeting of control actions and closer cooperation between inspection and police services. Not only has the number of controls been increased, but companies have also been better targeted. More intensive controls have been carried out in companies that have already had bad experiences. It is on this point that the efforts will focus: 2018 will, in any case, be a particular year due to the implementation of the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security. No conclusion can be drawn from the increase in the number of PVs and offences identified. There is no correlation between this increase and a deterioration in the sector. There is currently no evidence to suggest that these offences are due to capacity problems in the private security sector. The sector has been largely sanitized and professionalised over the past two decades. The law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and private security provides a framework for the sector, while allowing for control of both access to the profession and the execution of missions. In this regard, I would like to point out that the vast majority of complaints received come from the sector. The sector is its first regulator and applicant for regular checks. In addition, my services are continuing their monitoring of the sector in partnership with the police and the various social inspection services. Infringement trends for businesses are relatively similar over the last three years and are as follows: - offering their services or making themselves known without first obtaining the required authorisations; - the absence of a card order for staff or the non-remittal of expired cards; - various administrative offences. As far as staff are concerned, the trends in contravention are as follows: - carrying out activities without holding a ministerial card; - carrying out activities without carrying its ministerial card; - the pursuit of activities without having successfully succeeded in the required training; - checks on persons and personal property that do not comply with legal prescriptions such as, for example, non-compliance with gender. The exit sector remains a particular focus. The control of this sector accounted for 26.27% of the checks carried out in the caretaker sector and 42% of the PVs written. It is important to note that occasional dance venues - one-off parties - account for 12.6% of all written CVs compared to 4% of night checks. The regulation of the exit environment is an important issue requiring a specific approach and an even greater partnership with the social inspection services and the judicial police. The Act of 2 October 2017 provides a precise and strict framework for administrative sanctions to sanction and discourage criminal behaviour. The law provides for three types of sanctions, namely the warning, the proposal for an amicable settlement and the imposition of a fine between EUR 100 and 25 000. In 2015, 286 fines were imposed for a total amount of EUR 1 180 275. In 2016, it was 187 fines for a total amount of 998 650 euros. In 2017, 153 fines were imposed for a total amount of 956 500 euros. I would point out that the time difference between the time at which the infringement is found and the time at which the fine is imposed must be taken into account. A fine can only be imposed after a whole administrative procedure takes up a certain period of time. Therefore, the fines imposed in 2016 may relate to infringements found not later than three years before. The new law entered into force on 10 November 2017. In the period since then, the sector, both public and private partners, has been informed and informed of the new regulatory framework in various ways. For example, all licensed companies and services received a letter, specific information sessions were organised and a website with all information and a contact point is available. In addition, a package of implementing acts relating to the new law had to be drawn up and entered into force. In addition to the close involvement of the private security sector in the work on this subject, it also provides for an adapted communication of the new decisions. With regard to citizens, a broader information campaign will be planned in the second half of 2018, once the main implementing decisions have also entered into force effectively. I do not yet have information to indicate which authorities are calling on which firm. You know, however, that this is also covered by the law on public procurement. However, I do not have that list.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and the figures. I will be able to go through all this in the report. However, I notice a few things. It is reported that the number of checks has increased by 40% over the past three years, while your figures indicate that it is over several years, since the number of checks remained the same in 2015, 2016 and 2017. The following figures effectively show that they are the number of CVs and the number of infringements detected that have occurred. You mention that this would have to do with more targeted actions and controls being carried out. Of course, that is not the subject of today's question, although a question may be asked in the future. It is good that effective control is carried out. The fact is that there are still infringements. The increase in the number of infringements and CVs indicates the need for monitoring of the sector. On the one hand, no one should be cleared, on the other hand, no one should be accused without the presence of effective facts, but it is good that there is control. This has a major impact on our society, on citizens who are travelling on public roads or in places where private security firms can carry out checks. I urge that, as you have indicated, the major information campaign on private security companies will be well carried out and monitored in 2018, as well as that in the future will be equally focused on the control and follow-up of private security companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u30	Minister, thank you for these complete answers. I fully agree with what my colleague Mr Top has said. It is very good that there is an increase in controls and so much the better, I want to say. But there is still, as he said, 40% more VP, or 973, which is not negligible. All the remarks that we made in committee during the discussion of the private security project, all the drifts that we pointed at today are confirmed, which is an issue for us, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u31	Mr President, Minister, my approach is completely different from that of the speaker who just spoke. I note that the PS remains a very cool lover of private security, while for us the private security sector has become a fully-fledged and also an indispensable sector and partner in the integrated security policy. Without them, we can no longer guarantee safety here. They assist, but the direction remains in the hands of the police. Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening answer. I think it is important that there are far more controls and far more targeted controls. I have also noted that a lot of checks are actually carried out at the request of the sector. The sector has indicated that checks should be carried out at a certain location. As in any sector, there are a number of rotten apples here and there. They need to get out. They can be removed by means of checks. In my view, combined controls are also important. These are checks which are carried out not only in accordance with the law on private security but also in relation to social checks. We gotta get the rotten apples out. That is why the Open Vld has always suggested that the private security sector is a fully-fledged partner, which must meet many requirements. The members of the sector must be monitored, as is the case in other sectors. I have one final question about the report on which the press has reported and on which we have put our questions. Is this a report that could possibly be made available to Parliament or is it an internal report? That's one last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u32	Mr President, I do not know whether this is an effective report or whether it is just findings that have been reported. We will look it up and make it available to Parliament, where appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u33	A few weeks ago, reports were published about young, often underage, Nigerian girls working in prostitution in our country. The girls are being exploited and are here illegally under the status of provisional asylum. The African cell team that has been operating in the lap of the federal judicial police in Brussels since 1994 on the subject of Nigerian prostitution networks consists of four researchers. They are part of the investigation unit OA2 Group 2 trafficking in human beings. This group of human trafficking consists of a total of fourteen researchers for all human trafficking phenomena. The federal judicial police in Antwerp, for example, would not have anyone working exclusively with Nigerian prostitution networks. It is particularly difficult for the African team concerned to gain access to the victims and, by extension, the networks of the perpetrators. The girls are immediately secreted to other European countries after their arrest. Of course, they don't trust the police. A European approach is necessary. For example, there is the European ETUTU project, which exchange information and expertise on Nigerian trafficking in human beings at European level. In spite of important steps already taken at European level, Team Africa sees a number of obstacles to tackling the problem on the ground. Firstly, the number of people, the security plans do address the issue of trafficking in human beings and prostitution, but in practice it could be better. Four people aren't enough. Secondly, can the regulation of international contacts be made more flexible? Now the regulations are quite strict and for all crime phenomena it is foreseen that in principle only one researcher will be allowed to go abroad for international police contact. In some cases, that appears to be too little. The federal police indicate that the problem is getting bigger and very complex. An increase in resources would therefore increase the chances for federal police to deal with this complex problem. That is why I would like to ask you a number of questions. How many people are currently active on the subject of Nigerian prostitution? Is there a division per zone possible? Is the Minister aware of the growing problem of prostitution and exploitation? Is it being considered to allocate additional resources and people to tackle the growing problem? Is it possible to facilitate the regulation of international contacts so that federal police services can also send multiple employees to international partnerships?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, I cannot give you a specific response to the level of detail you want. What I can tell you is that this kind of prostitution, i.e. sexual exploitation, is part of the Human Trafficking and Trafficking cluster that is included as a phenomenon in both the Framework Paper Integrated Security and the National Security Plan 2016-2019. A chain-oriented approach has therefore been developed. A specific programme has also been set up in the Federal Police Department at the central level, at DGJ. Those are the figures to which you refer. In addition to the programme action for this phenomenon, there is, of course, also the operational handling of the files at the level of the judicial districts, namely the FGPs of the federal police and, where appropriate, at the level of local police forces. When we talk about this phenomenon, it is not only within DGJ that we can see who is working on it. There's a broader approach across the whole police force. The federal police do not have data on the capacity actually deployed at national, arrondissement and sun level. The latter is, given our police model and the autonomy of the police zones, not foreseen. Moreover, the distinction by type of nationality is not made. You're specifically asking about the Nigerian girls. Specific figures on capacity deployment in Nigerian prostitution are therefore not available. Based on an internal activity report, it appears that in 2017 the federal police deployed around 80 000 working hours to address trafficking in human beings related to sexual exploitation. The judicial districts, i.e. the FGPs of Antwerp, Brussels and Liège, have the highest workload in this area of crime. So it is much more there than those four people at the central level. As has just been said, the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings, including sexual exploitation, is included in the Framework Paper and the National Security Plan. It is known to me and to the other actors in the safety chain, otherwise we would not have put it forward as one of the most important phenomena in these two plans. Specifically with regard to the prostitution and exploitation of Nigerian nationals, the federal police note that they take place mainly in the arrondissements of Antwerp and Brussels and to a much lesser extent in West Flanders. There is no doubt that the issue remains an important issue for local judicial and administrative authorities. The available capacity shall be used by the devolved directors concerned in accordance with the whole of the priorities. Nor is it the case that if a team does not deal exclusively with Nigerian prostitution networks, for example in the district of Antwerp, its approach would be worse or insufficient. It is impossible to put together a separate team for each nationality. The approach does, of course, take into account the different groups of victims, without leading to the formation of a separate team for each potential nationality group. As far as your third question is concerned, there is the EMPACT project at European level, where EMPACT stands for European Multidisciplinary Platform Against Criminal Threats. This project focuses on the problems of Nigerian prostitutes and Belgium participates in them. In addition, Belgian liaison officers are replaced in a number of priority countries. On the operational level, it is the magistrates, the prosecutors of the King and investigators, who direct foreign assignments of researchers. Your proposal to relax the rules on international contacts is therefore not really necessary. Those things already exist. When missions are carried out abroad to gather information, they used to be carried out systematically by two persons, often by a single person, in such a way that capacity is better used. We therefore believe that with the current operational arrangements we are sufficiently monitoring the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u35	Minister, Nigerian prostitution has indeed been in the media, because it is a specific group. Also in the country itself, it is a use no matter how bad it is to send girls from different families to make money for the'madam' who sits there waiting for her money. It's a terrible phenomenon involving 14- to 16-year-old girls and I don't really see much in other countries. In any case, the Nigerian Government needs to consider how cooperation on this issue can be achieved, possibly in the context of development cooperation, but this does not alter the fact that there is a problem of punishment. I also put a question to Minister Geens on this because the penalty rate in Belgium is much lower than in other European countries. In Spain, for example, where the penalty is much higher, when one is targeted, the girls are easily hurried to Belgium. That is why coordination between European countries should be strengthened in order to ensure that certain flexible arrangements are not abused, as they exist in Belgium today. In the short term, this may require a little more effort to reduce the phenomenon.I have picked this up on the ground. It's a signal I wanted to give you anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament 24102 by Mrs Onkelinx is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 24104 by Mrs Fonck was also postponed. Mrs. Fonck is absent because of illness. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 2459 and 24160 by Mr Kir were also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u37	Mr President, Minister, on 20 February last, the KB's repair report on the status of operational and ambulance staff appeared. One of the Royal Decrees concerns the Royal Decree of 23 August 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 23 August 2014 on the administrative status of ambulance staff of the relief zones which are not firefighters. Article 17 provides, inter alia, that the movement time, from the barracks to the place of training, is working time for the professional staff but is not a period of service for the voluntary staff. However, there is an insurance scheme for the transfer and compensation for the transfer costs. Under the latter, I mean a mileage fee. I have the next question. For what reasons is a distinction made between compensation for the transfer time between professional staff and voluntary staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u38	Mr President, Mr Top, the status of the ambulance/non-fireman stipulates that each assignment is entitled to a performance fee, in proportion to the number of hours worked and the corresponding grade. No distinction is made between the type of performance. Both for interventions, training, prevention assignments and waiting in the barracks, the volunteer receives this compensation. This principle is based on the fact that in these cases a professional provides work benefits and thereby generates wages. Until the publication of the repair KBs, this analogy also applied to the journey time from the barracks to the training centre. However, at the request of the relief zones, this analogy was abandoned. On the one hand, because the zones found that the number of hours of movement was so high in the maximum number of hours that a volunteer may perform per year. This was equivalent to 52 times 24 hours, or 1248 hours. On the other hand, because the zones were of the opinion that a performance hourly payment for an hour's travel time was disproportionate. I have shown understanding for this reasoning and have tested them out at the voluntary organizations. On the basis of their opinion, the proposal of the zones was amended. In this way, the zones must ensure that volunteers remain insured during their journeys in employment. The area must also provide for a travel allowance. The latter has the advantage that the hours do not count in the maximum hourly quota and the allowance can be made up to the standard rates for travel allowances within the public sector. For the sake of completeness, I should like to point out that this distinction was made not only with the ambulance staff, which is not a firefighter, but also with the firefighters themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic835x.u39	Mr Minister, my question is indeed about the voluntary firefighters for whom this is indeed true. In the first instance, I would like to thank you for the answer. My question stems from the fact that the pressure on the voluntary firefighters and the efforts they have to make are enormous. There was always a call for voluntary firefighters because the cost difference is large between voluntary firefighters and professional firefighters. According to you, this was adjusted at the request of the fire zones because it weighs heavily on their quota. I understand this, but on the other hand they take a bit back from the compensation for the voluntary firefighters. It also calls for the necessary free time to be sacrificed for this purpose and for them to spend on moving to training courses. You have already made the necessary efforts to improve and adapt these training courses, at the request of the voluntary firefighters. However, the pressure on those voluntary firefighters remains high. I would therefore urge you to continue to make the necessary efforts and to soign the voluntary firefighters in terms of their training and compensation. In this way, we can retain them in our zones in the future.
