ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today the Chamber meets automatically on the basis of Article 44 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is meeting today, as a matter of law, under section 44 of the Constitution. I declare open the session 2018-2019. I declare the 2018-2019 session open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u3	By letter of 19 September 2018, the Council of the French Community Commission informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of 19 September 2018, the Assembly of the French Community Commission announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u4	I invite the two youngest Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, to sit at the Bureau as secretaries for the appointment of the Permanent Bureau (Art. Paragraph 1, third paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure). The two youngest members, Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp, are invited to sit in the office as secretaries for the appointment of the final Bureau (Art. Paragraph 1, paragraph 3 of the Regulation).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u5	The next item is the appointment of the Permanent Bureau. The next item is the nomination of the final Bureau. 1. The Agency shall consist of: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents; - the Bureau members. 2. The Office shall be supplemented by: (a) former Presidents, members of the Chamber; (b) the chairmen of the political groups; (c) an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members in No. 1 member of the Office referred to. 1. The Bureau shall be composed as follows: - the President; - three Vice-Presidents; - members of the Bureau. 2. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: (a) former Presidents, members of the House; (b) the chairmen of the political groups; (c) one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Chamber shall appoint the Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau in accordance with Rule 158 No. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups. The Presidency shall be included in the allocation of these functions according to the proportional representation of the political groups. In addition, as many members as are necessary for each political group with at least 12 members to have at least one member of the Bureau. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with Rule 158(1), first sentence, and on the proposal of the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the allocation of these functions in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u6	The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u7	Mr President, I would like to introduce Mr Siegfried Bracke as President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u8	Thank you very much, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u9	Mr President, I note that there are a lot of empty banks in the majority, including the opposition. I propose that we suspend the sitting until more Members are present. I can see the clerk noding. I also know that you will not answer my question, but I would like to express my displeasure at the fact that so many Members are absent from the Bureau and the election of the President. I regret that. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u10	Thank you, Mr Vuye. As only one candidate is nominated, no vote shall be taken. Consequently, Mr Siegfried Bracke was elected President of the Chamber. Since there is only one candidate, there is no vote. As a result, Mr. Siegfried Bracke was elected Speaker of the House. I thank you for the trust and I promise that I will do my utmost to be the chairman of all of you. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u11	The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau. The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. In accordance with Rules 3.1 and 158.1 of our Rules of Procedure, we shall appoint 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a and 1 Ecolo-Green in the following order. In accordance with sections 3.1 and 158.1 of our Rules of Procedure, we must appoint in order 1 PS, 1 MR, 1 CD&V, 1 N-VA, 1 Open Vld, 1 sp.a. and 1 Ecolo-Groen. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u12	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I propose Mr André Frédéric.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u13	Mr President, we propose Mrs Françoise Schepmans.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u14	Mr President, I would like to commend Mr Sonja Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u15	- the PS Group proposes Mr André Frédéric as Vice-President - the MR Group proposes Mrs Françoise Schepmans as Vice-President - the CD&V Group proposes Ms Sonja Becq as Vice-President - the PS Group proposes Mr André Frédéric as Vice-President - the MR Group proposes Ms Françoise Schepmans as Vice-President - the CD&V Group proposes Ms Sonja Becq as Vice-President I declare Mr André Frédéric and Mrs Françoise Schepmans and Mr Sonja Becq elected Vice-Presidents. I declare Mr. André Frédéric and Mrs. Françoise Schepmans and Sonja Becq as Vice-Presidents of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, we must then proceed with the appointment of the members of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u16	Mr President, I propose Mrs De Coninck's candidacy. Inez De Coninck, just to be clear. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u17	One could see things differently as a preview of certain...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u18	Mr President, I would like to propose the candidacy of Mr Dirk Van Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u19	Mr President, I would like to propose the candidacy of Mrs Karin Termmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u20	Mr President, I propose Mr Stefaan Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u21	- the N-VA Group proposes Ms Inez De Coninck as Bureau member - the Open Vld Group proposes Mr Dirk Van Mechelen as Bureau member - the sp.a Group proposes Ms Karin Temmerman as Bureau member - the Ecolo-Green Group proposes Mr Stefaan Van Hecke as Bureau member - the N-VA Group proposes Ms Inez De Coninck as a member of the Bureau - the Open Vld Group proposes Mr Dirk Van Mechelen as a member of the Bureau - the sp.a group proposed Ms Karin Temmerman as a member of the Bureau - the Ecolo-Groen Group proposes Mr Stefaan Van Hecke as a member of the Bureau I declare Mrs Inez De Coninck, Mr Dirk Van Mechelen, Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke elected members of the Bureau of the Chamber. I declare Ms. Inez De Coninck, Mr. Dirk Van Mechelen, Ms. Karin Temmerman and Mr. Stefaan Van Hecke as members of the Bureau of the House. The Office shall also include: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups: Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Chairman of the PS Group; Mr David Clarinval, Chairman of the MR Group; Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; Mr Patrick Dewael, Chairman of the Open Group; Ms Meryame Kitir, Chairman of the sp.a Group; Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Chairman of the Ecolo-Green Group; Ms Catherine Fonck, Chairman of the CdH Group; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who do not have a member of the Bureau. I give the floor to the chairman of the CdH Group, who has not been appointed to the Bureau by the Chamber, for the appointment of an additional member. The following members of the Bureau are also members of the Bureau: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups: Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Chairman of the PS Group; Mr David Clarinval, Chairman of the MR Group; Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; Mr Patrick Dewael, Chairman of the Open Vld Group; Ms Meryame Kitir, chairman of the sp.a. group; Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Chairman of the Ecolo-Groen Group; Catherine Fonck, president of the cdH group; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member on the Bureau. I give the floor to the chair of the cdH group who does not have a member of the Bureau appointed by the House for the appointment of an associate member.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u22	Mr President, I propose Mr Francis Delperée.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u23	I declare Mr Francis Delpérée elected as an additional member of the Bureau. I declare Mr. Francis Delperee an associate member of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u24	The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, to the Senate and to the community and regional parliaments. The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the Parliaments of the Community and the Region. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnis gesetzt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u25	The next item is the debate on the government statement. The next item is the discussion of the Government's statement. Mr Di Rupo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, allow me to make a preliminary point. The words I'm going to make are not directed against your person, which I respect anyway. There is no question of questioning you personally. My remarks are those of a political family - the socialists - that takes stock of four years of the policy implemented by your coalition, which is summed up under the sobriquet of "MR-N-VA coalition". Prime Minister, for having been very present on the ground in recent months, I can tell you that our citizens can no longer be subjected to the policy of your government. They've been tired of supporting your coalition for four years. Citizens are suffering: their end-of-months are painful, poverty is growing, the middle class is desperating and precarating at high speed. On the other hand, the profits of companies – especially large companies – have increased by 20% and reach more than 50 billion. Our fellow citizens are calling for a completely different policy for our country. Prime Minister, as I said, the time has come for you, in any case for your government. Let's start by looking at the tax shift and the cost of living! With your tax shift, you don't know the social beneficiaries, the less valid, pensioners, young people, who will not get any benefit from it. They represent almost half of the population of our country. As for the people who work, in fact, what you give them with one hand, you take them back from the other. Even they don't get away with it! The cost of living has become unbearable to the vast majority of our citizens. Diesel at the pump is now more expensive than gasoline 95. The VAB indicated this morning that, since 2016, the average increase for diesel vehicle drivers has been €448 per year. VAT on electricity has been increased to 21%. [[Brouhahaha]] Mr President, let us be clear! I won't respond to any interruptions. I didn't... [[Brouhahaha]] Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to Mr Di Rupo! May I ask your respect for the speaker, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u28	Yes, that wouldn't be bad! Mr President, yesterday, my colleagues and I listened to the Prime Minister without interrupting. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u29	Colleagues, respect, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u30	We had at least ten reasons to interrupt it. Like I said, diesel at the pump...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u31	Mr Di Rupo, I must tell you that we agreed that it would be possible to interrupt the speakers. That's quite clear. But, as well, it is your right, of course, not to respond to interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u32	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u33	However, I must move on to Mr Miller for a brief statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u34	Mr. Di Rupo, I wasn't asking you a mean question. I just wanted to point out...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u36	What? [[What are you saying?]] I have the right to ask a question! I'm not at the Mons Communal Council here! I just wanted to point out that this "MR/N-VA" government, as you called it, has increased integration income seven times. Since the beginning of the legislature, this represents an increase of 15%. We didn't leave people in trouble on the side of the road at all. Any action taken by this majority has been aimed at re-creating employment and restoring opportunities for the poorest. [[Applause]] Including in the province of Hainaut and in the city of Mons, where the unemployment rate is the highest in Wallonia! I did not want to get upset, but simply to say this to my excellent colleague, Mr Elio Di Rupo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u38	We have done much more under this legislature than you have done for years. And that's what's wrong with you! The real social security is to create jobs. That's what we did!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, remember what was agreed at the Conference of Presidents! We're talking to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u40	Mr. President, thank you. I have to apologize, but I don't hear well. Sometimes, even Mr. Miller, I can't hear him! I was saying that VAT on electricity was increased to 21% by your government, that gas prices were rising, that rents were rising, that basic necessities were increasingly expensive, and that many medicines and medical consultations were taking place. Everything increases except the income of our citizens. Not only do they stagnate but you amputated them through an index jump that makes them lose 400 euros a year. Prime Minister, a recent analysis of the KUL – which is still not the study office of the PS – demonstrates, with the seriousness of a university study, the negative impact of the tax shift on the least well-off households. According to this study, the tax shift causes the 10% of the poorest households to lose 45 euros per month. This is an extremely difficult situation. This is indicative of an even deeper evil. Your government's action has been steadily widening inequalities. According to the Belgian Statistical Office, since 2014, the risk-of-poverty rate among young people aged 16 to 24 has increased by more than 10%. For many of them, the prospects are wiped out. Prime Minister, we all know the Michelin Guide. Imagine a Michel Guide that attributes stars to some of your ministers with certain talents for social destruction! Several ministers could claim the three stars, but I will only take two examples - given the interruptions, I must try to be relatively brief. First of all, your Minister of Health: nearly two billion euros in savings on the health care legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u41	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u43	Two billion savings, I said. This is a grim performance, as health care needs increase, life expectancy increases and more and more citizens give up the necessary care. In fact, you have blocked the growth of the health care budget at 1.5%, while it would have taken at least 2.3%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u44	Mr Di Rupo, I shall make a preliminary remark: what I am going to say is not an attack on your person. That being said, in two sentences, you have just stated a fundamental contradiction: on the one hand, you claim that the health care budget has fallen by two billion euros, which is wrong; it has increased by three billion! Then you recognize a growth of more than 1%. Gross contradiction! Second point, honourable Member, for a number of days, and you have introduced your presentation in the same way, you have decided to do the lesson by setting out factual counter-truths one after the other! That's your right. Did you say you didn't hear well? Indeed, you did not hear the statements made yesterday. When we want to learn the lesson, it is good to show, where we have been exercising responsibilities for decades and in an absolute way, that it works. What am I looking at? For Belgium as a whole, thanks to the actions undertaken, the employment rate is now approaching 70%. It's a great success. In Mons, it stagnates at 50%! What am I looking at? In Mons, the real estate discount was increased to nearly 3000. It is a hard shock for the middle classes, for the people who live in this city; it is indeed much heavier in terms of impact than the huge gain generated by the tax shift! You said a few days ago, Mr. Di Rupo, that there was not an ounce of populism in your house. That's right, there's a ton!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u45	Mr Di Rupo, let us be clear: you can react to what the government has said, but it is as you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u46	Mr. President, on the subject of health care, what the Prime Minister is saying is a counter-truth. A health care budget is developed based on technical work on changing needs. In relation to that, indeed, you have made savings and, in addition, you have done them on the patients' backs, which we had always refused. You talked yesterday about bad communication, fake news. You're developing one. As far as health care is concerned, your policy is destroying what we have built for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u47	You will not blame me, Mr. President, for being too long, given the interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u48	There's no problem. I take it into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u49	As I said, the health care budget is severely restricted. You should know that a quarter of Brusselsers and a quarter of boring people give up a visit to the doctor. Yesterday, Prime Minister, you were talking about burn-out, this evil that gnaws so many people who work, but you did not say, for example, that your government did not want to recognize burn-out as an occupational disease. In fact, your government has only made access to health care even more difficult by increasing the cost of some drugs and consulting with the specialist. With your government the sick are laughing! Prime Minister, your government has spared the sick little, but what about pensioners and future pensioners? I'm sure you'll have three or even four stars for your Minister of Pensions. It is true that the latter is the pinnacle of social degradation. Current and future pensioners, no one escapes your arch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u50	Mr President, as long as we are in the context of the counter-truths, I would point out that we have reduced the price of more than 1,000 medicines, which has never been the case so far. This is a huge step forward for patients. It must also be reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u51	I would remind you that we are not organising the debate between parliamentarians! We're talking to the government or the speaker!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u52	I was referring to the postponement of the age to 67, the abolition of the tyrannical preferences which took account of the length of the trades, the current imbroglio as regards the possible recognition – very partial – of certain difficult trades, the abolition of the taking into account of the years of study, the tightening of the age and career conditions in order to go to the early pension, the abolition of time credits, the half-time pension. The list of attacks on the rights of our fellow citizens is long, very long, and this is clearly not over. Prime Minister, I have calculated that the combined application of tax shift, index jump and healthcare savings represents some €640 per year for the vast majority of our pensioners. Prime Minister, health care, pensions, income, we could have hoped for a constructive dialogue with the unions. Unfortunately, your government has killed social consultation. You buried her! The big bosses have from end to end dictated the agenda of your measurements. We must also read the words of the FEB boss, who publicly welcomes the attacks on the pension system and advocates for the further deterioration of workers' rights. We understand then that it is the big bosses who dictate the antisocial measures of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u53	Mr Di Rupo, I cannot let you say that. You seem to be unaware that under this legislature there was an interprofessional agreement, whereas under the previous one, under your government, unfortunately there was no agreement. Consequently, caricature of this interprofessional agreement is completely incorrect. I really regret these comments which, again, are wrong or in any case falsely presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u54	Mr President, what I wanted to say to the government is that by killing real social dialogue, you seriously damage the social balances of our country. Prime Minister, we heard you say "jobs, jobs, jobs". Of course, I could go back to the fact that 40% of the jobs created under this NSS legislature are partial jobs and 23% are seasonal or casual acting jobs. You are benefiting from a resumption of activity within the European Union. Good! That being said, in absolute terms, when I look at the performance of other euro area countries, it must be recognised that we could have hoped better. Mr Prime Minister, another element that you mentioned yesterday in an elliptical way so that we do not dwell on it is the economic growth of our country. Let me tell you with great humility and modesty – especially since several ministers who contributed to it are present on the benches – that under the previous government Belgium's economic growth was above the euro area average. Today, it is inferior. It's a reality! In view of the latest figures, I doubt what I heard, especially at the beginning of the legislature: without the socialists in the government, we were going to see what we were going to see, economic growth was going to start and we were going to find exceptional dynamism! The great economic reform of the country was the absence of socialists in the government! It must be acknowledged that the bet was not successful!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u55	Mr President, for the quality of the exchanges and for the quality of our debates, I would indeed like to give some information to the honourable Member. Indeed, the issue of economic growth is a very important one. I said that yesterday in this statement. In terms of growth, we are below the euro area average first because we have better resisted the crisis thanks to economic stabilizers. Secondly, when we look at the rate of growth, we must have honesty when we are a scientist, Mr. MP, to look at the starting point. There is the growth rate and there is the starting point. The starting point, what is it? We are in sixth position in the euro area, therefore at a good level, and eighth for the European Union as a whole. The countries above us are countries that made earlier than we did the economic reforms that you did not want, the structural reforms for the labour market, to boost taxation, to put it at the service of enterprise development. This, you refuse it because where you sit, you increase taxes, you are turned towards a motionless strategy. With us, there are 219,000 additional jobs but with you, tens of thousands less jobs! That's an effect!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u56	Mr Di Rupo, Member of Parliament, in the previous government I have heard many caricatures from the opposition. I now hear the same caricatures from the current opposition. Fact-checking, I hear from the opposition. Indeed, what have we done with the previous government? We have reduced taxes on labour. What have we done with the current government? We have reduced taxes on labour. 200 000 jobs. If I were a Member of Parliament and chairman of a Socialist Party, I would applaud the fact that 200 000 people are working today, which was not five years ago. That is a first point. Secondly, the purchasing power of the people was strengthened. In the previous government, we opted for a measure which we fully supported. More than that, we demanded it. We have blocked wages because of job creation. That was a difficult decision, but we made it. Now there is no wage freeze, but there have been wage negotiations. There was a two-time collective agreement to give raises to the people. Thirdly, there was the index jump and it has contributed to job creation. Apparently it has been forgotten that with the previous government we carried out a VAT reduction on electricity, which was actually a disguised index jump. That was the ambition. (Protests from Mrs Onkelinx) Fact-checking, that's true. Fourthly, and last but not least, one thing that is true is that in this legislature social benefits have increased by over EUR 11 billion over the last four years. That is EUR 11 billion to strengthen the lowest pensions. That is EUR 11 billion for the payment of supplementary pensions. That is EUR 11 billion for raising living wages. That is EUR 11 billion for people who are having a hard time. We can discuss whether it has been enough. That is an honest debate. But pretending those numbers don't exist isn't fair. Soyon's shy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u57	Colleagues, the agreement was that we would limit interruptions to two minutes, including for Mr Beke. Of course, we're not pharmacists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. I come to energy policy. Earlier, when you reply, Prime Minister, perhaps you will be willing to respond to what we read this morning in the newspaper L'Echo. If that were true, it would still be an unimaginable situation since the journalist claims that there would be quasi-secret discussions between Electrabel and your government on the amounts to be set aside for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the treatment of nuclear waste. These are subjects of crucial importance, since they are radioactive for thousands and thousands of years, whether they are installations or waste. How we're going to do it, who's going to pay, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u59	Mr Di Rupo, the Minister for Energy is asking for the floor. Mrs Marghem has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u60	I fired faster than you, Mr. Nollet. I have an answer and, since the honourable Member does not want to answer the questions, I have an answer. The answer is very simple: the government has passed a law that has been produced by the Nuclear Supplies Commission which regulates the issue of nuclear supplies in their existence, their sufficiency and their availability so that the operator pays for the total dismantling of nuclear power plants. This matter is currently under consideration by the Council of State and, on the same day as the Government adopts this bill, which is now before the Council of State, I have been asked to continue the work in order to further strengthen the legislation currently under consideration by the Council of State. The journalist who speaks today in the press...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u61	She's lying!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u62	I never use that kind of rude word, Mrs. Lalieux. The journalist is mistaken and is based on a text that is a moment in the course of the work that I am currently doing. It is not aware of the current status of this text, which further reinforces the one we have sent to the Council of State. The government's aim is therefore clearly to ensure that the strictest conditions are brought into the legal framework so that the operator pays the entire dismantling according to the principle - please let me finish, Mrs Lalieux - of the polluter-pays.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u63	Thank you. Several people want to speak. Mr Laaouej has the floor on the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u64	Mr President, it was agreed in the Conference of Presidents that statements should be addressed to the speaker. I see here – Mr Nollet will not blame me – a mini-debate between parliamentarians or between parliamentarians and ministers. I simply wanted to recall what was agreed in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u65	Mr Laaouej, it was indeed agreed that the speaker should be addressed. However, the government always has the right to ask for the floor and all members of this assembly can speak to the government. In the end, the discussions are still part of the discussion of the government's statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u66	Mr President, Mr Di Rupo is quite right. This is an extremely important point and the answer that the minister has just given is everything but clear. It would suffice, Madam Minister, for you to deny very simply that a provision in the new version of the text or in the version of the text as you propose it to Parliament at a later date provides that the legal framework must remain stable. Indeed, with such a provision, you are blocking not only this legislature, but also the coming legislatures. If you say here that this provision will not be included in the text and that you will take up the Commission's proposal on safeguards as it stands, I think that Mr Di Rupo will be reassured. I would ask you to make this statement in order to simplify our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u67	Mr President, Minister, you have said a number of things that we have all been able to read in the newspaper this morning. I think a lot of people are really freaked out. Negotiations would have taken place and you would have already made concessions in advance. You say ENGIE Electrabel requires a stable legal framework and you want to go along with it. You nod no, Madam Minister, but I would like to hear formally from you that this is not in the agreement. As Mr Nollet said, you were not very clear in your reply. We assume that this provision will be in the agreement. This means, however, that you hypothesize the future of future generations for the decommissioning of our nuclear power stations. We all know that there is a shortage of billions. If we are not now sure that the operator will be responsible for these billions, then we will be burdening the future generations with enormous debt. You have chosen to respond now to what Mr Di Rupo says. I would now like a very unambiguous answer from you. Does the agreement state that there should be a stable legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u68	Concerns are very high on this subject. I hear the minister gives information about what to do, but they are not convincing. I believe that a stable and legal framework must be established for the protection of the general interest, of consumers, in particular of the smallest of them, and of the business world as a whole. Indeed, the future and sustainability of nuclear waste requires its destruction. We must ensure this funding on an ongoing basis. It does not seem to me that the minister's current commitment is final, to the detriment of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u69	This debate is very important. I would like to give my position, which is clear, clear and precise, on this subject. And it was until Mr Nollet's speech, which caused confusion in the perception of the debate. The issue is very important and it is all the more important because of the difficulties associated with the nuclear park and the government's determination to ensure that the responsibilities are assumed by the operator. I was clear yesterday in the gallery. I'm going to the nuclear supplies. What are the facts? Before the summer, the government approved a draft with a clear mandate for the Minister to strengthen the State's position between first and second readings. That was the mandate, strengthening that position, no more or less than that. It is our ambition to strengthen the position. We are still waiting for the opinion of the Council of State on the text "Nuclear Provision". This is an extremely important subject; we will defend the interest of the state in this matter and, therefore, that of consumers. I simply note - with respect because it is a matter of freedom of the press, which goes without saying - that this paper is written without the minister's office or the Prime Minister's office being contacted to provide their information on the subject. It is freedom of the press, but it therefore leads to an impression that does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u70	Mr President, I was explaining, in addition to this issue too quickly debated, that the current government has delayed the closure of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants by ten years. We sincerely believe that this is a disastrous signal for those who want to invest in gas and renewable energy plants. We can't help but think that your government didn't resist Electrabel's sirens, even though I heard things yesterday. More dramatic is the ideological obstinacy your government has shown. This leads to a serious risk of electricity shortages for this winter. Let us acknowledge that in an advanced country such as Belgium, we cannot do worse in terms of bad governance. Security of supply is your government's full responsibility. You said yesterday that you had a discussion with Chancellor Merkel. There might be an agreement with Germany. Does that mean that we will be totally dependent on Germany? Do we really think that Germany will give us gifts, especially in terms of prices? My feeling is simple: your energy fiasco, it is our fellow citizens who will pay for it. Not only are they likely to live in the dark and have to use candles, but they will also see their energy bill fly away.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u71	Mr President, I shall make a preliminary remark with all due respect to Mr Di Rupo. All experts note and acknowledge that the first winter after this government took office, the legacy of the previous government, was not difficult due to mild weather conditions, because it was not too cold. Indeed, we were not ready for the first year of the legislature thanks to the balance sheet of your government, Mr Di Rupo!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u72	Prime Minister, I still hear Mrs Marghem, very proudly, when she took up her duties: "Never again in this country with this right-wing government, there will be no security of supply problems because we are going to extend nuclear power plants." Today, nuclear power plants are the problem! Mrs Marghem, not a month ago, was unable to accept a strategic reserve when she was obviously aware of the nuclear power plant review agenda. So stop, Prime Minister, and assume that the security of supply that is the primary responsibility of this government is not guaranteed for this winter!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u73	Mr President, these questions, which are eminently technical and well known to the parliamentarians who speak here, come out of their mouths in a salmigondis of facts which produce a false image. It is not because false things are repeated in loop that they become true! I would just like to point out, if you allow me, that your government, Mr.Di Rupo, under your leadership, extended for ten years Tihange 1, which did not prevent your government from giving us the witness passage with a problem of electricity supply in the winter of 2014-2015. It is clear, therefore, that the problem is a global problem which you now deny on an ad hoc basis. [[Brouhahaha]] Mr President, would you like to see the right of speakers respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u74	Yes, Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u75	First, we passed the winter of 2014-15 and increased the interconnections by 500 MW. We continued the deployment of the offshore in the North Sea to reach a power of 2.2 GW in the run-up to 2020, significantly reducing what consumers had to pay for the development of renewable energy. In this way, we saved consumers €4 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u76	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u77	When we extended Doel 1 and 2 - like what you had undertaken - we made sure that wholesale prices in the electricity markets decreased because the plants in question were returning to the circuit. The operator owns them and is responsible for their operation, while Elia is responsible for security of supply. As you know, since you have exercised the highest judiciary in this country, the government is responsible for the legal framework, not for technical exploitation, nor for electricity generation. This government must note that the operator has lacked foresight – he himself says it in the press. We therefore have a one-time difficulty in dealing with, which we have already resolved. Indeed, in less than ten days, we have found an additional capacity that we can activate on the network, so that we can guarantee the supply for this winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u78	Another disastrous consequence, according to some private offices, is that the electricity bill will rise by around 250 euros per year. You said yesterday, Prime Minister, that you would present the bill to Electrabel. I'll just answer you this. Let us be consistent: instead of first making the citizen pay the bill, take measures that will prevent him from having to pay that amount. Of course, you can bring a lawsuit that, Minister of Justice, is likely to take a long time – unless I know nothing about it – between the government and Electrabel, unless solutions are found in the meantime. I simply ask you to immediately implement a series of measures to avoid these extra costs to the citizen. I heard what you said about VAT. However, it was 6% and you increased it to 21%. The price-control and price-blocking procedures had been shouting, but were being put in place during the previous government; we could come back to that. We had, in collaboration with Mr. Wathelet, launched a call for tenders to guarantee 800 megawatts, with one or more gas-fired power plants. This dimension can also be reactivated. Prime Minister, in addition to the energy issues that we are likely to come back to in the coming days, and perhaps this afternoon, I would like to say a word about public services. Your government has massacred them, forgetting that, among the officials, there are nurses, police, teachers, railwaymen, and I'm passing. More broadly, there are also magistrates who provide justice on a daily basis. I could take many examples, but at the pace of the debate we are likely to arrive at a late hour in the afternoon. So I will limit myself to one example, when I planned three. These are the police services. You thanked the law enforcement yesterday. I would like to associate myself with your thanks. I think they are doing a great job, but these thanks cannot hide the lack of policy in your government. According to the Minister of the Interior, in response to a recent parliamentary question, 3,700 police officers are missing. We know that the theoretical framework is already very tenuous and is not sufficient. What we miss most in my eyes is police officers in the neighborhoods. We would certainly have the opportunity to reassure the citizens, but in addition, we would have valuable guidance and we could better anticipate a number of extremely serious events. Earlier, you mentioned my city of Mons. Thank you for making it a subject for debate in Parliament. At home, in my neighbourhoods, I would need a hundred additional police officers if I wanted to properly and satisfactorily screen the territory of our police services. Your government, with this very serious gap, this massive shortage of police officers, puts the safety of our citizens at stake and, in the future, we will have to reinvest. Prime Minister, I will say a word about our defence policy. President Obama had already called on the Member States of the European Union to make a further effort. And recognize that the words of the new occupier of the White House should make us react without delay! As you said, we must remain reliable partners of NATO. I agree with you, but we must give priority to European strategic independence. I believe that we Belgians must be leaders in building a Europe of defence, both politically, militarily, scientifically and industrially. We will see what you will do but imagine that Belgium is buying American planes! Knowing what we know, I think it's a serious mistake. Prime Minister, beyond dealing with both nuclear and public service issues, I believe your government lacks a vision. In May, we will simply have lost a whole legislature, five full years! I say very often what I have just said, because four years ago you were in charge of the governance of this country and four years ago you said that what you are doing is the continuation of what we have done before: "We have passed the relay. We did this." Does that mean that the four years were useless? Five years lost in the energy transition! Five years that have pushed the economy back in the European countries! In addition to the negative socio-economic impact, attacks on fundamental rights and freedoms are also taking place. I know the language elements that have been used but, nevertheless, the "pseudo-depenalization" rock of the IVG: your government withdraws the IVG from a criminal law to penalise it again in another law. As for home visits, they might be buried, but I'm not reassured yet. There is also your government's collaboration with the Sudanese regime and – I must say that – the racist, xenophobic hints of one of your government's members as well as the criticisms of the vitriol and even threats against university professors or associations who dare to criticize the conservative orientation of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u79	Mr Di Rupo, the Prime Minister is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u80	(...) decided not to answer the questions. I understand the reason for his refusal. Only one question about GVI. Why, in 25 years, when you have consistently held positions of responsibility, has no initiative, absolutely none, been taken in this regard? I say it with personal respect, there has been since the beginning of your intervention, a rather surreal addition of counter-truths. You're in the most complete denial. Raoul Hedebouw, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u81	You're the one who intervened! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u82	Say what you're saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u83	Let's be clear! Either we address the government or the speaker!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u84	Prime Minister, last Thursday, I asked you to attend the debate on the decriminalization of abortion. This is an important subject for our society that deserved something other than Mr. Miller's cries that I just heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u85	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u86	When all the women's associations, all the medical experts, the KUL and the UCL, all the family planning and many of the penalists say that this is not a penalty, I would have liked you to hear them, Prime Minister. Don't be displeased, this progress is not one! You know very well that you have been submitted to the N-VA and CD&V. I would like to say in front of you that even Wilfried Martens, who in 1990 agreed with the bishops, has left to this Parliament the freedom of conscience and of voting. What you did not do, because you are subject to the conservative right of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u87	I still don't know why, in 25 years, you haven't done anything about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u88	Mr Di Rupo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u90	Let's be clear! Mr Miller, the speaker or the government has the floor. But I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u91	On another subject, Mr. Di Rupo, you referred to the KUL standards about the police. This is a very important issue, which interests us all in the days ahead and given the deadlines ahead. But I have a question to ask: in Mons, the KUL standard gives you 350 policemen. There's 290 of them. Therefore, if you refer to standards and put them forward to say that the government does not apply them, does not respect them, you might also have to sweep in front of the Montoise door! As for the IVG, Mrs. Lalieux, I don't want to argue with you...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u92	No, that's not the point! Mr Di Rupo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. What I mean is that another policy is quite possible. The one advocated, in particular, by the Socialist Party. We can have a positive vision of society, with enhanced social protection, access to health care guaranteed to all, pensions worthy of an age that takes into account the realities of work provided, sustainable and well-paid jobs, effective public services for citizens, a policy that is part of the energy transition, full respect for fundamental rights and new ethical advances, especially in a vision of absolute respect for women. Prime Minister, our country in the world had the image of an open, tolerant, caring state. Moreover, this status was not the prerogative of the socialists alone. Of course, they have always been pioneers and have taken the initiative of many ethical advances in Belgium. But the Liberals, environmentalists and sometimes even Christian Democrats had made our country a modern and accomplished democracy. Moreover, Prime Minister, your father was one of the artisans of ethical progress, when he was Minister of Foreign Affairs, with, in particular, Mr Guy Verhofstadt as Prime Minister. How much water has sunk under bridges since then! With regard to ethical issues, the liberalism that your government has shown us throughout the legislature has proved to be ultra-conservative. In fact, you're advocating a society that's back on itself. You want to make our country a Belgium that will be regarded as a ravid Belgium. I must tell you simply that, as far as we are concerned, we plead for a Belgium that is proud, beautiful, great, a Belgium that has faith in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u94	Mr President, I regret that I even have a feeling of sadness when I hear that a former Prime Minister is ready to undermine Belgium's image for purely electoral reasons. There is an absolutely undisputed fact: our country has achieved an electoral score, on the occasion of its election to the Security Council, which is absolutely unique. I do not wish you to achieve such a Stalinist score that reflects confidence in our country's credibility, image, diplomacy and political strength.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u95	Former Prime Minister, in terms of ethics, you are calling us a Conservative when the transgender law was passed under this government. In addition, some ten years ago, I asked the then Minister of Health, Mrs Onkelinx, about the donation of blood by telling her that it was not normal not to make progress in this area while Sweden, with a Christian Democrat minister, has already made progress. But she refused to act. And it took the current Minister of Health to move forward. This progress is still insufficient, but it is already a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u96	Mr President, I am not a specialist when it comes to the city council in Bergen, so I have been reluctant for the time being. Mr Di Rupo is mature and old enough to defend himself, but I would like to support him on one point. Prime Minister, you say that our country is still on the map. Unfortunately, I do not agree with that. You quoted Nelson Mandela several times yesterday. Well, that's not enough to compensate for all the frenzies of the N-VA and Francken, including on the international stage. You can say that we are a pioneer in Europe, you can be proud that we have taken a seat at the United Nations, but the reality is that the whole world is increasingly wondering whether Belgium, on human rights and migration, is on Angela Merkel's side or in Orbán's club. The whole world is wondering where Belgium, the climate leader at the time of the Kyoto Summit, under the impetus of Magda Aelvoet and Olivier Deleuze, is today, why it is sending its cat to the European summit and joining the Eastern European countries rather than the climate leaders. On one point, therefore, I must say that I agree with Mr Di Rupo, namely that under Charles Michel the image of our country at international level has unfortunately deteriorated. And that is because you quote Mandela, but above all because you let Francken commit and let the tone of our country determine on the international stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u97	Mr President, with regard to our country's openness to the world and the fact that the government has not at all been part of a logic of retreat, I will recall a few elements. As the Prime Minister said yesterday in his speech, there is our participation in the UN Security Council, with a very important vote of support, there is the fact that France recently joined the proposals made by our Foreign Minister with regard to environmental and social criteria in trade agreements. It's not nothing, Mr. Di Rupo. You are also attentive to this. There is also an important element in Belgium's current policy and I would like you to have mentioned it. You haven't done it, have you? Our country has shown the way in everything concerning the CETA file. How can we say that Belgium is a country that is back on its own? How can we say that our government closed our country when we had an extremely important trade agreement with Canada from the beginning, which you did not want, which your party tried to kill? Today, this agreement brings important investments to our country, Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia! Your way of saying that our country is now a retreated state is completely wrong! This government has opened our country to different levels of international dialogue, which had not been done for a very long time!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u98	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will try to conclude. The strong, the rich, the powerful are certainly satisfied by your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u99	Prime Minister, if you insist, I will give you the floor, but the speaker must be given the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u100	Mr President, I want to acknowledge and note the deep contempt for the speaker's Parliament, who has refused to respond to each of the speeches. When you claim to be a Democrat, when you give lessons in democracy, you start by applying them to yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u101	Mr President, I said that the strong, the rich and the powerful must certainly be satisfied. Employees, civil servants and the self-employed make daily a bitter observation of the deterioration of their living conditions. Unfortunately, the young, the sick and the less able are the forgotten of your government, Prime Minister. I'm not even talking about the job seekers and pensioners that you've had permanently in your collimator since 2014. By remaining very moderate, the least we can say is that the liberal recipes that you have been able to apply 100% for four years have led to a clear failure. Flop, flop, flop! A failure with disastrous consequences for the Belgians. At the time of the stocktaking, many of our fellow citizens say, "Stop, stop, stop!" Prime Minister, believe me, your government will leave a bitter taste for the people of our country. In a few months, voters will judge your team and all those who participated in the destruction of human and social values. I believe that we must stop hitting the heads of the poorest, the oldest and the most fragile! We must stop typing on the skulls of workers and savers! There is an urgent need for our citizens to regain sufficient purchasing power and for our young people to be able to realize their dreams in an exemplary and leading country on a European scale. Yes, Prime Minister, there is an urgent need for another government to take over our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u102	Mr Prime Minister, I have to say that just 24 hours after you have pronounced the State of the Union, it is already obsolete. You said you'd make a million and a half available to do fact-checking of fake news. I fear that Mr Di Rupo has already used up that money. You have pronounced the last State of the Union for this government. This is the time to reflect on what has already been achieved and on what we have been planning for the next seven months. At the start of this government, which I would like to repeat, we would like to include a structural conversion of this country in this government's programme. We are still convinced that this is necessary. It is particularly regrettable that we have not found any allies to this end. N-VA has opted for realism. We have chosen to accept our responsibility to obtain what is possible. We have been loyal to the agreement, even though it is our firm conviction that this need remains. What we have done together is, I believe, something that can be seen. I shall begin with the budget figures, the so-called Achilles heel of this government. It is true that we would have liked to end with a balance, but that is not being achieved. If a black party is to be maintained, it must be said that this objective has not been achieved. It should not be forgotten, however, that we have made two thirds of the course, and that we have done so in difficult circumstances. They'll create a more nuanced image. With this government, we have been able to reduce expenditure by 2.4% of GDP. It is the first time in this century that the government has succeeded. The government's garbage has been reduced. During the Di Rupo administration, I will bring them up a number of times in my speech. That distinction is very clear. Even more important is the distinction in taxes. The government has been able to reduce taxes by about five billion, while under the Di Rupo government taxes have increased by over seven billion. I have just made the exercise: if we had followed the tax policy of the Di Rupo government, we would now have had a surplus of 1% of gross domestic product and we would have had no budgetary problems, so to speak, but the citizen would have had to pay a very heavy invoice for it. So we didn't follow Di Rupo's path. We have reduced the deficit by 1.8%, which is twice as much as under the Di Rupo government. Did we make it to the final reading? Have we struck a balance? No, but if we achieve two thirds of the promised final result, I think we should not be ashamed of that. If we talk about a derailed state budget in the commentary, then the facts are pushed away a little bit. Anyone who does not notice the difference with the previous policy under the Di Rupo administration is blind or of evil will, but perhaps it is a combination of both. Mr Beke just noted that the government had promised that jobs would be added. A number is at first sight only a number, but we have created over 200 000 jobs. This concerns 200 000 people who have found work, who have been able to engage actively in the economy. It is our firm belief that this is the only lasting and real remedy for poverty. This is also noted in the figures: the difference in the risk of poverty between working and inactive people is huge. Well, we've been able to help 200 000 people by triggering them. This means that today's unemployment rate, which must be highlighted, has been the lowest since 1977. We have not had this low unemployment rate for 40 years. If you put this against the unemployment rate left by Mr Di Rupo, you will see that we have been able to reduce it by 25%, by a quarter. I must honestly say that this is an achievement on which we are extremely proud. The many unfilled vacancies remain a problem. So there's definitely plenty of room left to activate people. If I am not mistaken, there are 28 further activation measures that we would like to see implemented over the next seven months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u103	Mr De Roover, you are working with the low figures of those who, unfortunately, have to live with only unemployment benefits. You knock on the chest and you say, "I'm proud of that." You're forgetting an important part of the story. This policy pushes a lot of people further away from the labour market. The downside of the lower unemployment rates, which you are so proud of, brings with it a record number of people who have to live off a living wage. That's a hell of a spike. A similar peak is seen in the number of people who are long-term ill. Within this group of long-term sick people of nearly 400 000 people, almost the city of Antwerp, there is a huge peak of people who are mentally and psychologically struggling. You are knocking on the chest, but you forget that often happens, as the Prime Minister forgot yesterday, very often the downside of the coin. That's not a coincidence. That is the result of the policy, a policy that you want to continue by making unemployment benefits even more degressive. Are you proud of that, too? I hope not, because you are pushing people deeper into misery, further away from the labour market. This is also a long-term policy that will cost our society and our economy a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u104	Mr Calvo, against the fact that 200 000 jobs are being done, you have suspicions and opportunities. We say that activation is indeed the only consistent remedy against poverty. When you refer to the fact that too many people have to make a living wage, you will not be unaware that they are absolutely not forgotten under this policy. On the contrary, living wages have been raised to a level the recipients of which at the time of the previous government could only dream of. If people have not yet made the leap to the labour market today, then it will indeed require further activation, which, as I have already said, we still have 28 measures in the pipeline. That's how I think our proposal on employment integration jobs was turfed up. In helping and activating people, it goes without saying that we need to be able to offer much more customization.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u105	Mr De Roover, Mr Hedebouw wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u106	Mr De Roover, I do not understand, but it is simple: you tell us "We are very proud, unemployment has decreased". You have taken steps, and not just your government, that have instead had the effect of excluding more and more people from unemployment, who are now at the CPAS. The figures are very clear: over the last ten years, there have never been so many people at the CPAS. We're approaching the 40,000 mark. Ten thousand more people, that's fact-check! We see it in all the communes, whether Walloon, Brussels or Flemish, these people are at the level of the CPAS. My first question is: Can you confirm, since we are in the era of the fact-check, that there have never been so many people at the CPAS in the last ten years? Second point: degression, i.e. proposing that people live faster on 1 011 euros per month. Can you tell us any studies that would demonstrate the link between accelerated degression and job search? A carte blanche of many scientists was signed last week and indicates the opposite link. The reasoning is obvious for everyone who lives in contact with social assistance, which is obviously not your case: someone who needs to think about how to survive with €1,011 a month, does not find the time or energy to look for work. Mr De Wever, excuse me, Mr De Roover, I have two questions. Firstly, can you confirm that there have never been so many labourers in Belgium? Factcheck, factcheck, factcheck! Secondly, can you demonstrate that degressivity helps to find jobs? Factcheck, factcheck, factcheck!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u107	Perhaps Bart De Wever is my example, Mr Mao, excuse me, Mr Hedebouw. Unlike Mr Di Rupo, I will answer. By the way, Mr Di Rupo, if you had printed your text and distributed it to the banks, we would have gained a lot of time here. We could have read it quietly, because if there can be no speeches, then there is little point in manning this chair for so long. Mr Hedebouw, we are indeed dealing today with a certain rigidity that prevents job creation. However, this government has already made quite a few improvements, hence the improvement in the labour market and the number of jobs we create. The much lower level of activity in our country, which has grown historically, is the main cause of our government deficit. This government has been able to increase the level of effectiveness. This means that we have been able to give more people access to the labour market. Those who are unable to do so and who have to rely on a living wage deserve our solidarity, hence the increase in living wages. However, possible social fraud must be strictly monitored, and this government has also done so. I dare to question your scientific evidence of the degressivity. I can explain that easily. It is obvious that the Swedish system was half copied. As a result, a number of effects were identified but also a number of others were fantasized which were clearly contradicted by many scientists. I would like to assume scientific evidence, but in this case I doubt whether it is about scientific evidence. It is our belief that this measure will be an effective part of activating it. We are always talking here about people who apply and find work, but what is sometimes forgotten is that people can create jobs and economic activity themselves. That figure too much has remained below the choir size. Last year we broke an absolute record in terms of the number of start-ups, the number of new companies. I make the comparison again with the period-Di Rupo and note that the number of starters has increased by a quarter. This, of course, is of the utmost importance for the activation of a society. Prime Minister, I will not go into this in more detail, but I would certainly also like to express our support for the element of the digital transformation that you rightly drew attention to yesterday in your State of the Union. We have increased the living wage, we have increased the lowest pensions, and we have, thanks to the tax shift, even provided an extra monthly wage for those with the lowest wages. That too cannot be stressed enough. They have an extra month's wage thanks to this tax shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u108	It's time for a fact check again. New jobs have been created. How do you respond to the fact that 40 000 of these new jobs are working poor? So they still live below the poverty line. The risk of poverty increases from 3.9 % to 4.7 % for this category. So it is seen that this is a major problem. People do have jobs, but they still live in poverty. That's a fact check. Can you respond to that? Are you not entering the German model in Belgium? In Germany millions of working poor have been added, people who do have a job but do not earn enough of it to live.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u109	Mr Hedebouw, the risk of poverty or social exclusion under the current government has fallen by 0.8 percent. Moreover, it has become smaller compared to the moment when the current government replaced the previous government. Do I understand that you are giving the impression here that solutions to poverty in the benefit sector must be sought? In that case, we fundamentally disagree. We see the solutions in the activation sector. We also see them in the sector of activation in the private labour market. I can imagine that we do not agree with your ideology that the problem has been solved by employing several hundred thousand more people in government statutes. That is certainly an option, but that is not the option we are choosing. We choose activation. Here too, our figures are impressively different from the previous legislature. We opt for activation in the private market and not government driven. However, we are of course totally different on this issue, which also makes me very happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u110	Mr Hedebouw, you may give a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u111	Mr De Roover, you are replying completely alongside the issue. After all, it's about the jobs. I'm not here about benefits. That's another file I'll talk about later. It's about jobs. There are 40 000 more people who have jobs, but still live in poverty. That's what it's about. The model that you generalise is that of low-quality jobs, especially those with which people still live in poverty. The figure is very clear, in the sense that it is 40 000 more people, and you cannot ignore it. It is therefore about the quality of the jobs created, of which at least 50% is part-time and for which wages are not high enough. I just heard CD&V say very happy that the previous government has also made a certain index jump. So that's two index jumps. But I don't understand your reasoning. You are almost proud to say that two index jumps were made in five years. So, Mr De Roover, I would ask you to answer the following question. Do you think it is normal for people here in Belgium to have a job, but still live in poverty? Can you answer this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u112	Mrs. Monica De Coninck is asking to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u113	Mr De Roover, you are constantly calling for activation, but activation is a regional competence. The objective figures show that the number of long-term unemployed, i.e. those who have been unemployed for more than two years, has fallen by 2 000 units over a year, from 67 000 to 65 000. The figures show that it is particularly difficult for people over 40 to get a new job. The VDAB invests far too little in people's activation and effective guidance. For this reason, the long-term unemployed end up with the OMCWs. However, you know that the OMCWs are gradually being abolished, which means that those people are actually being released. That activation doesn't come into the house.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u114	Prime Minister, I am afraid that your next EUR 1.5 million in fact-checking has gone through this too. Mr Hedebouw, I will answer your questions first. The tax shift is aimed at the lowest wages. With our policies, we are creating more budgetary space, allowing us to focus more on the lowest wages. For example, people with a monthly gross wage of EUR 2 000 will receive a net monthly payment of EUR 106. We are just making this movement to ensure that people who have a less well paid job are rewarded for their work. The high level of taxation in this country led to people not being motivated in the past to move from a benefit to an active job, but we turned the tanker in that respect. Mrs De Coninck, it is true that activation is a regional competence. Minister Muyters is doing an excellent job in this area, because it is almost impossible to keep track of how many consecutive months unemployment rates in Flanders are falling. In the previous government, you were a not insignificant pawn and I would therefore like to inform you that the long-term unemployment rate at the end of the Di Rupo administration was 4.3 %, which, under your rule, was an increase of 0.8 %, while the long-term unemployment rate fell to 3.5 % today. We are quite proud of those figures. These are important results, because, once again, the long-term unemployed are also at risk of becoming unenforceable after a period of time. That's the whole point of this degressivity in benefits. We want to get people back on the labour market as soon as possible so that we do not lose them there, because this is a particularly serious problem for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u115	Mr President, I am convinced that this fact-check will return like a boomerang to the face of this government. A majority member has just announced a 0.8% reduction in the risk of poverty. I have in front of my eyes Statbel's paintings that can't be called into question. Statbel reported a risk of poverty in 2014: 15.5 per cent; in 2017: 15.9 per cent. Let's do a very small mathematical calculation together: 15.9 –15.5 = 0.4%. This results in an increase of 0.4%, which is equivalent to twice the error of M. De Roover who claims that there is a reduction of 0.8%. In my view, fast-check is very important and I hope that EUR 1.5 million will be invested wisely to be able to control the statements of the majority. However, we must not lie: poverty or the risk of poverty has increased in that country. The reasons are very clear. Don't try to hide this fact with fake news. Please don't pretend we're up 0.8%. Statbel's here. I therefore ask a member of the majority to go back to that figure or to acknowledge that you have made a mistake about the figure. It's okay to be wrong. That can be said in this Parliament. But you don't have to accuse others of fake news.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u116	Mr De Roover, I am indeed proud that there were only 0.8 % more unemployed after the economic crisis; I am proud of that. In fact, I thought that Prime Minister Michel admitted today that there is a great deal to thank for the fact that the Di Rupo administration managed the economic crisis so well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u117	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u118	He'd rather not have said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u119	Prime Minister, since you are talking about social security, the tax shift cost 12 billion. The many jobs created, i.e. 200 000, would ensure that they were compensated. Well, in social security there is a difference of 2 billion income. So there is 10 billion left, which we have to compensate somehow. These are still to be sought by means of measures to be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u120	Mr Hedebouw, I will quote from Eurostat figures for the period 2014-2017: "The risk of poverty and social exclusion is falling by 0.9 % in Belgium in the period 2014-2017, following a slight increase in the period 2011-2014." Mr De Coninck, I find what you have said quite interesting. You said the tax shift costs. That is a very nice use of words, because you mean that this money has remained with the citizens. That is, of course, a way in which we can still put things in a dark light. Yes, we are not dissatisfied that we have been able to give back more money to the citizens. That's right. Thank you for bringing that to the attention of the House. I would have expected that from our Mrs De Coninck rather than from you, but it is equally correct and just as correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u121	Mr De Roover, the question is, of course, to which citizens. We see a huge increase in the profit margin of companies. Normally it is 16 % when offering services or products. Today, in many companies, the profit margin has increased to 50%. You did hand out a lot of money, but I'm just asking who.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u122	I referred to the lowest pensions; I referred to living wages; I referred to the effects of the tax shift. I don't follow you when you almost criminalize the given profit. Profit is the driving force behind the economy. I know you prefer not to make a profit, and I hope this is the case on Sunday, but profit is not a dirty thing, Mrs De Coninck. Profit is something that creates jobs, among other things. Profit is generated on the basis of activity, and we do want to encourage it; I admit that. Again, I would like to take your reproach as a compliment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u123	Mr De Roover, you say that profit creates jobs. Well, with so much profit, many more jobs should be created, which we do not see! Where does profit often go today? To ICT, to mechanization, to outsourcing abroad. This is done with profit, no jobs are created for the people!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u124	I have a small remark, Mrs. De Coninck. You have to look at how the income from corporation tax is actually a tax on the companies you wish to increase, while we reduced the rate at the beginning of this year!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u125	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u126	That's not true? You deny the numbers? I will forward to you the list of revenue by reducing the basic rate. Then you'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u127	Mr De Roover, with regard to the comment made by the Minister of Finance on the increase in corporate tax revenues, I believe that the Minister of Finance must be correct: this increase is linked to the increase in the advance payment of taxes. In view of the incentives that have been given and the risks of additional tax for those who pay late, there has indeed been a phenomenon of anticipation of the payment of the tax. A tax paid one year in advance must no longer be paid the following year. This government is a specialist in masking reality. This is systematically the case with regard to the estimation of new revenue, revenue linked to the fight against tax fraud. I heard yesterday the Prime Minister say that all the measures related to the fight against tax fraud have been implemented. Here's a new fake news! The Court of Auditors has come to the Panama Papers Special Commission to present us with the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Major Tax Fraud and has explained to us that only one third of the measures requested by Parliament have been fully implemented by the various governments since then. Mr De Roover, I cannot agree with the statement made by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u128	I may be mistaken, but I suspect that advance payments are also a result of economic activity. Few companies decide to pay in advance because the company is in bad shape and they consider it to be a form of savings, so that the State can repay the advance payments the following year. Mrs De Coninck, have I heard you say that some people are opting for innovation? You should look up the word Luddite. We can also smash computers. Innovation is the driving force behind the next jobs, Mrs. De Coninck. You're taking over my job to make this a good news show for the government. If profits go to investments in innovation, then this is a good thing. I should therefore like to thank you for that remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u129	Mr De Roover, you were formed in an educational project with all kinds of techniques to defeat people in a debate. One of those techniques is ridiculing people. I know that very well. I did not say that we should not invest in innovation. However, it may be necessary to invest a little more in the training of workers and the training of the unemployed so that they can become familiar with these new machines, methods or production methods. This is a very difficult point in the negotiations between employers and trade unions. I myself have noticed that employers invest in highly educated people, but very often not in the low-skilled. These people are asked to continue working for up to 67 years and to stay up-to-date. You can now continue with your debate technique.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u130	Mrs De Coninck, I do not think that anyone in the majority and certainly not in our group will contradict you when you talk about the need for continuing training. That goes without saying, we are absolutely in favour of it. In this respect, let us say that we are in a power shift there, the Flemish Government has taken a number of very useful initiatives for quite a few school tired children who had to sit on the school banks earlier up to 18 years. These initiatives were, moreover, very successful. It is said that companies do nothing for people on low incomes but that they have to work up to 67. Mrs De Coninck, you will not be unaware of the fact that we only have to work until 67 when we start working on 22 years and that in the year 2030. I just want to make a few basic facts clear. The number of people with lower wages to work up to 67 will therefore be extremely limited, not to say that this will apply to virtually no one. So you can keep repeating that mantra, but that won't change the facts. Prime Minister, we fully understand that this is a very hard nut to crack. I'll give you a very short anecdote. I was at a party with former colleagues the other day. I asked one of them how long he'd been retired. He retired in 1999 and was now 74. So it turned out that this good man, a very sympathetic colleague, could have retired to 55, so to speak, in the full bloom of his life. That doesn't apply to everyone at that age, but still to many. I can understand why it's hard for people to leave that model. I fully understand that. Let us be honest, however, in the old system we could retire very early, but pensions were very low. This means that we spend quite a bit of money on the people who are retired but who are screwed up over the many months, of course, there is only a very low amount of pension per month. Well, we want to break up with that model. Important steps have been taken in this regard. It is our conviction that, for example, we still have to have the courage to take the necessary decisions on the basis of transparent and well-founded budgetary analyses. I want to come to... (...) Yes, Mr Di Rupo, that is what one is saying: one is not getting ahead of himself in his speech. You didn't have that problem. [[Laughter]] I'll be right down to the safety hatch. We have pursued a policy of introducing a safety culture. That too is a cover in which I could mention a few examples, such as the Channel Plan. I have just heard from Mr Di Rupo that it is important that there are more policemen on the streets. I didn't expect him to make a promotion here this week for the Antwerp model, which is just about to get more cops out on the street. That's important, too. We must be consistent in the security dossier, which has a number of aspects, Prime Minister. There is the file on military purchases, in which the trade minister has set a new standard and broken the past. I will not give examples of how large army purchases have been dealt with in the past, because then I think some Members will leave the hemisphere out of shame. Now there is a trade minister who has invented a decision-making model, a model that one even comes to study from abroad: in a correct, transparent way, without interference from forces that better stay outside the area of large army purchasing files. It is important, Prime Minister, now that that dossier is ready, that it is quickly resolved. The same applies to the theme of the transmigrants. It has been said on several occasions that there are no magical means, but the measures you referred to yesterday, for example, are beginning to bear fruit on what is taking place on the autostrades to the sea. The nuisance is being addressed and mayors of socialist signature also acknowledged that in recent days. I would also like to give an example of an activist policy to roll up a gang of Sudanese smugglers yesterday. Here too, we must be consistent: if we want a policy to be implemented, we must, of course, also provide resources for it. After all, security also has to do with ensuring borders. I think public opinion is fairly clear about that. No one here in the hemisphere, which is said on a regular basis, wants a policy of open borders, but if measures are taken to secure and control the borders, then these measures are contradicted, challenged and all efforts are made to make them impossible. It can be said that one is not in favour of an open border policy, but in fact makes any possible control of borders impossible. There are rules to enter this country. There are rules for staying here legally. There are procedures to apply for asylum: they work according to the highest international standards and that is a good thing. Those who do not follow these rules rightly have the qualification 'illegal'. That word means that these people do not follow our rules on entering the country. This also means that they actually discredit those who do, and that is already unacceptable in itself. It is at the heart of a rule of law that the law is respected. For my group, this means that the phenomenon of illegality is fundamentally unacceptable and that a policy must therefore be pursued not only to discourage it, but also to reduce it as far as possible. I come now to a subject which has rightly caused quite a stir, in particular: energy supply. There were also times in previous years when energy supply problems were predicted. I welcome the efforts that have been made to achieve this in recent days, because for us ensuring good energy supplies is a foundation of a well-functioning society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u131	Mr De Roover, I think it is brave of you to raise this issue. This must be particularly painful for N-VA, because the situation we are in today is a product of your energy vision and energy policy, especially your blind faith in those ancient nuclear power stations. Mr Wollants has once tabled another bill lately, he has been talking a little less about keeping those power stations open for 70 to 80 years. If we are in trouble today, your party, I have often referred to them as the Nuclear Flemish Alliance as a huge responsibility. I actually find it unbelievable that yesterday the Prime Minister had to say, "I called Angela Merkel." Too bad Mr De Wever is not here today, because for him Angela Merkel is the source of all evil, the source of all misery in Europe. Who should call the N-VA to solve their problems, to remedy the shortage of their nuclear power plants? Angela Merkel. Fortunately, Mr De Roover, energy transition has started in Germany. Mr Prime Minister, it is fortunate that Angela Merkel has started this energy transition, and that is where we are trying to phase out both the coal and nuclear power stations. Mr De Roover, it is brave that you address the issue, but we should actually be glad that Angela Merkel says "Wir purchase tie," because with N-VA the lamp will not turn. N-VA is putting us in trouble with its blind faith in these ancient nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u132	Mr President, I will ask Mr De Roover whether he confirms the statement or whether he has enough information to confirm the remarks made earlier by the Prime Minister when he was asked about the negotiations between the government and ENGIE today on nuclear supplies, bonds and guarantees that ENGIE would bring. The Prime Minister explained to us that, according to him – but Mrs Marghem was not left behind and she initiated the remarks – the information revealed by the daily newspaper L'Echo was not reliable information, that they were not intertwined, according to her, but both added that no contact had been established between this respectable daily, if any, and the cabinet Marghem. I therefore ask the Prime Minister, who has said this with a great deal of aplomb but also unreservedly, whether he confirms this statement or whether the truncated information has been delivered by the Prime Minister and by Mrs Marghem to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u133	Mr President, I am speaking on the same subject. I see Minister Marghem coming to terms with the Prime Minister's spokesperson, and I think this is an extremely important moment. The Prime Minister spoke earlier here in Parliament on the basis, I suppose, of information from Minister Marghem's office, denouncing the fact that the newspaper L'Echo had contact with Minister Marghem's office. According to the Prime Minister, his own office was not contacted either. I am not talking about contact here, but about contact with Minister Marghem's office. Prime Minister, since we are all fighting fake news, I would like to propose that you take the floor to correct this information, and say that what you have been asked to say here in Parliament was wrong, that there have been contacts between the newspaper L'Echo and Minister Marghem's office, and that the journalist tried to make contact, tried to have an answer to her questions and that she did not get them. This is your chance. You have the opportunity to correct yourself here in Parliament now, but do not make the mistake of believing in words what your Minister of Energy, who has already deceived you in the past, says. Do I have to remind you that other cases in this government, with Mrs Galant in particular, have led to certain decisions? I offer you the opportunity to correct yourself, this is the time, enjoy it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u134	Mr President, I am being questioned and therefore confirms the information I have given: my office has not been contacted on the subject. I was informed, after my statement, that L'Echo contacted my office to communicate that contacts would have been made with the minister's office in the previous days. It seems that there is a lack of understanding of the exact nature of the questions that have been asked, but I maintain what is the substantial point: the information communicated does not correspond to reality since the facts are the facts. And what are they? The government has validated a draft law on nuclear supplies and has given the minister a mandate to activate the file, process it properly and correctly, and strengthen the state's position. That's what counts!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u135	Mr. Nollet, and then Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u136	Mr President, I think we are facing a very problematic situation. Not 24 hours ago, in the gallery, here in Parliament, the Prime Minister sang the fight against fake news. Today, he was led to tell Parliament the opposite of the truth: contrary... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u137	Minister, I don't think this is the time to add any more! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u138	Go on, Mr. Nollet. Colleagues, a little bit of order. Mr Nollet to the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u139	Madam Minister, we are talking about a specific fact: a journalist has contacted your office. You gave the Prime Minister, earlier, the information that allowed him to speak here about the fact that no contact had taken place between this journalist and your office. This piece of information is wrong! Today, in Parliament, the Prime Minister must correct what was said earlier. I believe, Mr President, that in terms of demonstration of fake news, we have not done better in such a short time. I would like in the future, Prime Minister, the members of your government no longer to deal with this kind of issue – particularly in their contacts with journalists and the information they provide – with as much lightness as Minister Marghem can do, as Minister Galant has done in the past!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u140	Mr President, I very much fear that this new fund to fight fake news will exacerbate the state deficit, because at the rate at which the Prime Minister sets out a number of counter-truths here in Parliament, this famous fund to fight fake news is likely to be solicited, more than reason. And obviously, you'll be the first customer. On the other hand, Prime Minister, it is clear that you did not tell Parliament the exact truth when you were questioned about the ongoing negotiations with ENGIE. The main bad information you've given is that no contact has been made between the daily L'Echo and Mrs Marghem's office. Obviously, Mrs. Marghem, like Mrs. Galant at the time, misinformed you and you came here to distort the truth. Prime Minister, you've been on the wrong side of Parliament. This is unacceptable! Defending Mrs Marghem is your right but not at any price and certainly not at the cost of the truth, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u141	Mr Wollants has the floor to address the government or Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u142	Mr De Roover, it is important that you discuss the energy story, even in view of the current circumstances. In the corridors I hear all kinds of claims, but it is good to point out a number of things. I would like to know your opinion on this. Firstly, Germany is very often referred to in terms of energy transition. They're doing a good job. At the same time, however, I also hear that the country is carrying a lot of electricity through our country today. It concerns power from lignite plants in the north accounting for 19 000 megawatts. Germany lives, sits and lives on a mountain of lignite, which has to be completely out and set on fire. Is it not very strange that such a country completely violates European rules on interconnection capacity? Is it not strange that we should give up our interconnection capacity, because the Germans do not want to comply with the rules, in order to get that not so clean lignite flow to the south anyway? Secondly, we hear that the opposition is recovering a great deal from what has been put forward by the various governments in connection with the core exit. For example, it is the current government's fault that only one power station is running. But, dear people, Deleuze's plan assumed that four plants would run in November. Ecolo's Secretary of State decided that four nuclear power plants would have to run in 2018. I do not know what you think of this, Mr De Roover. So it's Deleuze's fault that there were four power stations running? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Roover, I have to say that there are a lot of things that are being thrown up here. Those who repeatedly ask us to shut down additional power stations underline that the plants that come to us in November and December should have been closed down, namely Objectives 1 and 2 and Tihange 1. We would then be faced with power shortages for two to three months. That kind of thing is weird. Mr De Roover, I am of course very interested in your vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u143	Mr Wollants, you have convinced me with your statement. In this respect, you are at Mrs De Coninck's level, who also regularly convinces me of her statements. I particularly think that your reference to Germany is quite right, because, if I am well informed, you, as a Member of Parliament, have been very active in questioning this problem for a few years and you were one of the few in the hemisphere that I have to admit, who saw the problems in this area coming years ago and then asked for a solution to be found. It's nice that this is happening today. Your work as a Member of Parliament is certainly appropriate here, my colleague. Mr Calvo, we will of course do everything we can to ensure that electricity does not fall out in November. But if that were the case, that would actually illustrate the situation we would be in, if Green were in charge. After all, what is being demonstrated here? It has just been shown that we cannot afford a brusque trip out of nuclear power today. You can then try to solve the problem by selling wind here, but that fact of course is beyond question. Then, from the point of view of availability, the following aspects are important: the affordability of energy, you referred to Germany in this respect, but hopefully you do not refer to Germany's energy bill among the citizens, which would be too embarrassing, accessibility, and ecological viability. After all, it is clear that, in the short term, greenhouse gas emissions will only increase if we step out of nuclear power in the first place. There are no alternatives to this at the moment, Mr Calvo. That does not mean that the transition as such is rejected by us, absolutely not. That is to say that we must be realistic in this respect and that the nuclear power stations, which, according to Ecolo, would have to run at full speed today, should be properly maintained by the responsible party.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u144	Mr De Roover, as regards nuclear safety, I would like to remind you, who does not follow the subject as intensively as Mr Wollants, that the Minister responsible for nuclear safety is Mr Jambon. If you say today that the operators have not maintained the nuclear power plants well enough, then you also say that your Minister has not followed the issue well enough. However, the essence of my speech is something else. You claim that what we are experiencing now is in line with what we would experience if we were to implement the Green Programme. That's total bullshit. The problem is not our program, the problem is not Olivier Deleuze's core step in 2003. The problem is that our programme was not implemented, the problem is that the core step of that time was not carried out. Yesterday, the Prime Minister and yourself took the words brutally and improvised in their mouths. Prime Minister, in 2003 you were still a young politician. That core exit was approved on 31 January 2003. That's not brutal, that's 5 730 days ago, 5 730 days in which MR led our country, 5 730 days in which the N-VA also for a very long time controlled the country at regional level. So that's not brusque. The problem is that very little has been done in recent years to carry out the core trip. The result is that we have exchanged an organized, phased, well-considered core step for a nuclear stop, which is indeed brutal and improvised. For this, you, Prime Minister Michel, MR, the most pro nuclear party on the French-speaking side, and the N-VA, the most pro nuclear party on the Dutch-speaking side, have a very great responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u145	Mr President, Mr De Roover, I am somewhat surprised. Indeed, as you hear it, it is assumed that a telephone exchange between the Prime Minister and Mrs Merkel will solve all the problems and that the megawatts needed to spend the winter will be provided to us. Can you confirm to me that, beyond the agreements reached by telephone, steps have already been taken by the government with the energy suppliers in Germany to ensure that this is the case? Moreover, have you imagined how we would annihilate, for example, the loop flows which pose a number of technical problems for the import of megawatts. I don't think we should take everything for cash. Moreover, the debate does not seem to be positioning itself on a real issue of energy supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u146	Mr President, I would like to intervene in this interesting debate, and I am addressing Mr De Roover, but also the Prime Minister. It is important that we create legal certainty and that we remain absolutely on course with regard to what is written in the law on the core exit. This means that all initiatives need to be rolled out to make this option a reality. In this context, I refer to initiatives taken, inter alia, in the regions, for example in Flanders, on renewable energy. I also refer to the savings made by the government by the new tender in relation to the North Sea, which is very important and involves billions of euros. Mr De Roover, it is not good to have systematic doubts about the feasibility of the core exit. You cannot ask investors and public opinion in general to maintain the core exit course, but at the same time systematically undermine this option or leave doubts about it. I fully agree with what the Prime Minister said yesterday, namely that the core exit must be accompanied by a guided approach. I therefore call for urgent work to be done on the gas plants. For this, Prime Minister, a financing system must be put in place and my question is how far this is going. After all, if it is decided to take the key step in 2025, then all alternatives must be made operational, which also implies a financing system, the notification of which would have already happened to Europe, if I understood correctly. This must be done quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u147	Mr Dewael, I can reassure you. We are your ally for any solution that falls within availability, affordability and economic viability.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u148	That wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u149	Yes, that was the question. Those are the contours, as the government has decided, to work on the alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u150	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u151	Mrs Temmerman, if you say that the answer is no, to what do you intend to reduce: on the economy, on affordability or on availability? You don't think that triptych can be realized together, do you? Well, I wonder what you might say to the people: that there will be no energy available, that it will not be affordable or that it may become economically unviable for you? Which of those three options do you take out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u152	Mr De Roover, of course I am not taking any of these three options out. Both Mr Dewael's question and his statement were clear. It must be made clear to the economic sector that there is a strong commitment to the core step so that this sector can organise itself through alternatives. You will reply: we shall see.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u153	No, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u154	Yes, you do. You will answer: we will see, because... Of course, that decision must be assured, but you must resolve it. With these three principles, you must ensure that it is possible. And then it will happen. But again, and despite the demand of your coalition partner, you are creating doubt. You're saying there might be a nuclear trip. Mr De Roover, that is what is preventing the core exit. And that's the problem with this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u155	It is true that Mr Wollants is a very good colleague who knows energy very well. No more than ten days ago, during the great debate on security of supply, which is, I would remind you, not the responsibility of ENGIE but the responsibility of the government – it is just the law that says so – it pleaded the extension of nuclear power plants beyond 2025. He said that there was obviously a need to extend reactors. As I recall, no more than a year, a year and a half ago, who torpedoed the Energy Pact for the Nuclear Transition? It was obviously the N-VA when three other regional ministers had validated this pact with the Minister of Energy. Besides, we're not even talking about a pact anymore. That's the situation! That's why Mr. Dewael has fears. I understand them because, today, nothing has been done about the stability of gas-fired power plants, Mr Dewael, or their subsidies, when a call for tenders has been undermined, when we are still waiting for the nuclear standard and when you say that the price is important for households. But what do you say to these households? The Echo announces – but perhaps it only publishes fake news, Prime Minister? – 400 euros extra to pay for gas and electricity. These are the questions that you are being asked, Mr De Roover, because you have torpedoed the nuclear exit so much that today this government is not ready to get out of it. We want it and we demand it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u156	Mr President, I find Mr De Roover's criteria interesting in terms of affordability and availability. I would like to invite him to apply these criteria to the current situation. How affordable and available are your ancient nuclear power plants? These ancient nuclear power plants are pushing the bill to the heights and they are more stationary than they work. Even if you applied your own criteria to the current situation, you would in principle have enough arguments to begin the energy transition. However, you do not want to start. All you do is create uncertainty. In this sense, Mr Dewael's concern is justified. You organize doubt all the time. You don't want headquarters to know, even more so, that they think the core exit will not be carried out. That is the message the N-VA is constantly sending. We are still talking about an energy pact, but there is really no such pact. The Flemish Government, with the N-VA at the wheel, refused to sign that pact. There may be a lot of good will with someone like Bart Tommelein with his positive energy communication, the facts are that besides that energy communication there is sabotage of the N-VA. That sabotage is putting us in trouble today with energy that is neither affordable nor available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u157	Mr de Lamotte, I believe that more is needed than a phone call to Mrs Merkel. I do not believe that yesterday's Prime Minister's words can be reduced to that. You'd be right if we thought we could clear the case with that call. Mrs Temmerman and Mr Calvo, I am sorry, but we are holding on to those three. This means that we still believe today that this really does not need to be illustrated, that this is an important part of the energy supply. By the way, this is also in the plans that were once put forward by green ministers. We are not going to let that realism push us. You call that sabotage, Mr Calvo. I call that propaganda of yours. We remain on a realistic track and say very clearly to all the inhabitants of this country that availability, affordability and ecological viability are the three elements that any solution must meet. As far as we are concerned, that is the framework. I was talking about ENGIE, or I was going to ENGIE Electrabel, because these days, of course, they have a very great responsibility. They have an important position in our energy market. Don't overplay your cards, I'd like to ask. Mr Calvo, you can give the impression that we are on the side of Electrabel or ENGIE, but that is absolutely out of the blue. We are very critical viewers of the energy market and the role of ENGIE and Electrabel in it. What happens now...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u158	I don't even have to give the impression that you're on the side of ENGIE. That impression is entirely justified: you are on the side of ENGIE. Yesterday in his speech, the Prime Minister's bright spot was that he wanted to work on a chamber-wide political coalition to file a claim against ENGIE to make the money in Paris. What is the N-VA doing today, colleagues? This is news anyway. I hope everyone has seen that the N-VA, the Flemish nationalists here in the Chamber, comes to Charles Michel and says, "Don't overplay your cards." Maybe you shouldn't do that. We must, of course, do so! They bear the responsibility. They must pay, not the Flemish citizens and businesses, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u159	Mr Calvo, there are limits beyond which you can make a fool of yourself. You've reached it now. I hope this is spread widely. So I'm saying, and I repeat, I'm addressing ENGIE and Electrabel... Prime Minister, your name is Charles Michel. Is your middle name ENGIE? In that case, I would understand the misunderstanding that has arisen with Mr Calvo. I didn't mean Charles ENGIE Michel. I meant ENGIE Electrabel. It almost rhymes. Mr Calvo, Mr Di Rupo is not answering and you are not listening. We have therefore summarised the opposition. I say clearly: "ENGIE Electrabel, do not overplay your cards." "Woeah," says Mr Calvo, "what is that? You're on Electrabel's side." Allez, man, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u160	I call Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u161	Kristof, don't, you're only making it worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u162	Mr De Roover, if you say I want to hear it, but I haven't heard yet that the N-VA supports 110 percent that ENGIE should pay that invoice, I will take back my much pleasure. That's what I'm talking about. Only I note, file after file, subject after topic, debate after debate, that the N-VA is on the side of ENGIE and often says: Prime Minister, do not overplay your cards, let us take into account the interests of that French multinational. However, if you say today that they have to pay for it and not the Flemish consumer, then I will gladly applaud you for once because it would be a trend break.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u163	Secretary of State Deleuze said at the time that the nuclear power stations had to run, and I now have the impression that Mr Calvo is seriously running here. But we're gonna make history now. I'm gonna get applause from Kristof Calvo. Pay attention, this won't happen often anymore. Now the big moment has come. It's here on paper if I was Di Rupo, I'd have it spread in the hall, but I didn't know if I'd be interrupted... "The responsibility of ENGIE Electrabel is huge in this. ENGIE Electrabel So that's not Charles Michel do not overplay your hand." [[Hilarity and applause]] Moreover, Mr Calvo, I had not finished my sentence, but I was interrupted by a Enthusiastic crowd. Electrabel, do not overplay your hand, for as far as we are concerned it is unacceptable... I dare not say my way anymore, because it will be said that I am doing it because Mr Calvo has asked, and that is not true. So I'll really read out what's here, believe it or not. "For us, it is unacceptable that the invoice should be paid by citizens." [[Applause and hilarity]] I can now consider my political career a success. I should say now that I am leaving this gallery, but I am closing up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u164	I'll just make a comment. I would have a lot of fun here in the gallery, if not the households who are paying the electricity bill today, because Minister N-VA does not want to reduce VAT. I'd be having a good time, Mr. De Roover! But I don't have much fun, and not even at all, because today it's the households that pay. Why does the state, as we said earlier, not take over household bills and go to court against Electrabel before charging households? Mr Michel, you have the opportunity to do so: reduce VAT! And stop paying the heads of households, here in plenary session!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u165	That's the same party that attacked us on the budget deficit. Meanwhile, millions more are being pulled out of the closet with a measure...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u166	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u167	Mrs Lalieux, reducing VAT on energy means that you are going to promise all these 150 people a reduction in their energy bill. That is a linear measure that you let everyone benefit from, but at the end of the story the bill has to be right. Who pays that bill? It is not ENGIE Electrabel if the VAT is reduced. Who will pay the bill you want here, Mrs. Lalieux? That's the taxpayer. It actually seems a little more social to us to address ENGIE Electrabel on that, but we are also spoken about that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u168	Mr De Roover, I am very pleased that you are finally admitting that increasing VAT meant a budgetary effect. That is what you have said: it was only for your budget. You say the reduction is linear. Well, the elevation is linear! With this, you will allow anyone who cannot pay it to pay for the rate of 21 %. This is a disgrace! Mr De Roover, electricity and energy are basic products, such as water, but you do not recognise that. Energy must be accessible and inexpensive to all. You have increased the VAT rate to give your budget, which is far from in order, better figures. I welcome this information, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u169	Mr. President, Mr. De Roover says crazy things. Mr De Roover, when you raise taxes on consumption, those who pay them, are not taxpayers? When you increase VAT, it's not the taxpayers who pay? It is the households that pay, Mr. De Roover, the taxes on consumption. The same applies to the VAT you have increased. These are not abstractions. People are "ducking"! You lose sight of a second thing. Indeed, the price of electricity increases. What is the basis for calculating VAT? That's the price. This means that you penalize people twice: a first time with the price rising, a second time by imposing additional taxes. That is the truth, Mr. De Roover! Give people what you take because of the price increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u170	Mr President, on the majority side, whether it is yesterday, the Prime Minister or you yourself here in the gallery, you say that neither the citizens nor the companies – indeed, I imagine you are involving the companies – will have to pay the electricity surcharge. These are strong words. You're saying we're gonna send the bill back to ENGIE Electrabel. But since the time you've been repeating it – indeed, I've heard one or the other of you say it since the appearance of this very bad saga on the part of the insecurity of supply, but also on the consequences of the latter in terms of cost – not one of you has explained how you are actually going to guarantee that the extra cost and the invoice will not have to be paid by citizens and businesses. We are now a few days away from the communal elections. I hope that you do not make these big statements as an announcement to reassure the public before next Sunday's elections, and that actions and, above all, results will be seen quickly. Because today, the extra cost is guaranteed. It would be naive to believe that citizens and businesses will not face a significant additional cost in terms of electricity. The bill is likely to increase very rapidly, starting in November. Beyond the words you quote, can you assure us today that after the elections there will soon be concrete effects on the bill? Could you, moreover, decline a minimum of how you will return the invoice to ENGIE Electrabel? Without that, I'm afraid your words are nothing but chimeras.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u171	Mr President, I thank Catherine Fonck for her speech because the wish I had was precisely to be able to clarify how to work on this important subject. Indeed, announcements should not be made and every effort should not be made to implement the commitments made. We are faced with two major concerns. The first is security of supply. We talked about it a lot. I reply, by the way, that contact with the German Chancellor is one of the elements in a broader strategy to ensure that every effort is made to be in order in the coming weeks and throughout the coming months. I can't believe it. The second concern is the impact on prices. I have been informed, like Parliament, of price developments in Belgium in comparison with Europe. We observe around the end of September, when the concern was announced, a clearly abnormal peak specific to Belgium which is not reflected in the European average. On the basis of this information last week, I asked, together with my colleagues in the government, that the CREG be able to analyse the situation as quickly as possible, objectively, so that we can identify the link between this abnormal increase specific to Belgium which is not found in Europe with the situation of the unavailability of a large part of the nuclear stock which was not foreseeable, a few weeks ago. In addition, on Friday in the Council of Ministers, we instructed the Minister to work with all the legal teams to analyse all possible options. It was not by distraction that yesterday I spoke of all the means of law in order to ensure, either in a consensual manner, that an agreement could be concluded with the company and that there was a possible remedy within the framework of this impact on prices, or in a way that was forced to look at legal options. We will certainly receive more information in the coming days on the various legal levers available to us on the subject. Finally, to put the points on the "i", before this government decision and last Thursday's Parliament meeting where I have already declared the government's intention, I had personally met with ENGIE Electrabel's hierarchy, to inform him that the government would want to ensure that this responsibility, for supply and for prices, is indeed fulfilled. Not by the state, because taxpayers, via VAT, are also the state, which is a big difference, but by the company, by the multinational in question. It's a big difference. You plead for a measure that actually defers responsibility for this impact to the State. We believe that the responsibility for this impact on prices lies with the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u172	Prime Minister, I listened carefully to your explanation because this is an extremely sensitive and important issue for citizens and SMEs, who pay their bills and who have to pay more and more, given the simple fact that their contract is coming to an end and needs to be renewed. In this context, they are affected by this differential which you are trying to identify at best but which was actually already visible on the slides that the CREG presented here to Parliament a little more than a week ago. So my first question is what your work schedule is. Indeed, the impact on the invoice is immediate. I fear that your negotiations and contacts with ENGIE Electrabel will take several months. Can you commit yourself to the citizens and SMEs who are listening to us and who need to have a response to their bill, to be closed? I'm not going to give you a deadline, but it would be helpful if you gave me a deadline now. Secondly, you know, as I do, that when the price of raw materials increases, which is the case in this case for electricity, given the figures you have quoted and the graphs that have been shown in committee, the State (and so you) also receives a surplus of VAT revenue. Could you not also make a commitment that this part, to be precise, should also be discounted to the most disadvantaged citizens, those who, when their energy bill increases today by ten or fifteen per cent, see their monthly income, their spending capacity, their purchasing power decrease in the same proportion. For those who have the highest incomes, my faith, it is a change of 0.1 or 0.2 per cent in their monthly capacity, but for those who have the tightest incomes, in particular the social beneficiaries, those who receive a minimum wage or pensioners, I believe that the state must also make a gesture in addition to what you must rightly seek. I applauded yesterday at Electrabel, but for the part of VAT which is linked to this increase and which goes into the revenue of the State, I consider that you must also make a gesture at that time for a particular audience. I have said, Prime Minister, a gesture in addition to what Electrabel is going to do, I am talking about the VAT share that comes in additional revenue in the state budget. It's complementary to what Electrabel needs to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u173	Prime Minister, I understand what you have explained here. You're making commitments. Where I disagree with you, it's about how you point Electrabel as the sole responsible for increasing the impact on prices. It doesn't clear your minister's customs. The Commission has largely lacked anticipation and management of this file upstream. We will see if the excess bill for citizens and businesses, if your announcements and your comments will be followed by actions. Acts alone are not enough, but they must be effective. It will be clear from the beginning of November whether the cost surplus will be offset in due course. Some households and companies may be able to cover the increase in bills for a number of months. This is not the case for all households, especially the most disadvantaged. Let us recognize that there is still a significant social divide. Households who are in a particularly difficult situation will not be able to insure the surplus for a number of months, as long as the government finds this solution. When you talk to me about the legal path, it makes me think that it will take time and even a lot of time. The future will tell us, beyond your words, whether the actions you take will be effective or not. Finally, on the agreement with Germany, I do not know very well whether your discussions are just about a phone call or whether there is something more concrete with Mrs Merkel. I'm still curious to see the content of your agreement. I am rather curious to see when it will be less ten degrees if Germany in a sympathetic way will detest itself for the beautiful eyes of Belgium. I would point out, however, that Germany does not have interconnections only with us. She also has a series of other countries. She doesn't have one. All right. I shouldn't be talking about interconnections, but obviously the agreement is about something different. In this respect, it would make sense, in terms of transparency and to prove the effectiveness of your advertisements and your comments, that you can further detail your call or even your agreement, in short, your exchanges with Germany. Again, beyond the point, what interests me for citizens and businesses is that the actions are effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u174	Prime Minister, with regard to the analysis of the price increase due to the shortage organized by Electrabel – as the CREG has clearly demonstrated in its graphs – if we limit ourselves to the causality of plants with technical deficiencies and do not take into account those that were under maintenance, it is important that we maintain the whole increase in this sector on the whole of the case analysed, without distinguishing the various factors. It is also important to bear in mind that the price of electricity has already been higher in Belgium for months. It is not just because of this problem. On an average annual basis, the difference with France is 290 euros. This claim for VAT between 21% and 6% is there to compensate for the fact that in Belgium we are already paying more. If we average with Germany and the Netherlands, we have 133 euros more per year. It is important to compensate for this additional cost for all Belgians, regardless of the situation. Can you already estimate the increase in VAT receipts, in millions, linked to the increase in the price of electricity? Are there projections already? I could ask the Minister of Finance. Mr Minister of Finance, what will be the surplus in the state coffers due to this increase in electricity prices? If these VAT receipts were to increase logically by 15 to 20 %, why not offset by a reduction in this VAT? It would be a neutral budgetary operation. The Minister of Finance had already opposed a categorical no to the possibility of reviewing VAT. From a financial point of view, it would be interesting to have an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u175	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene during this debate, but among other things Mr Nollet asked a question on which I would like to express our position during this speech. So I am doing so now in the light of the current debate. I have learned from the debate one thing, a good and positive thing, in particular that the opposition supports this majority and this Prime Minister in their initiatives to do study work on the influence of the abnormal unavailability of nuclear power stations on prices. If the influence is positive, being a price increase and thus a negative influence on consumers, they want to hear this on ENGIE. That initiative is supported by the opposition, and that is important to me. However, when money is recovered, the question is what happens to those resources. Mr Nollet, it seems clear to me that the recovery goes to those who paid the increase, namely families and businesses. The energy price obviously has several components: taxation, public service and production price. Due to international market phenomena, regardless of the unavailability, but also because of the unavailability, the production price is affected. Public services also have an impact on production prices. Mrs Kitir, it is quite clear to our group. We do not believe that a social policy is being pursued by adjusting the VAT rate, precisely because of the Matthew effects in this area. Energy plays an important role in the competitiveness of many companies. Think of the chemical and non-ferrous sectors. Energy plays a very important role in the consumption of our families, especially those who have the most difficulty. So I do not think that a government should earn on price increases in terms of production. So if it turns out that CREG's study is to be carried out even if the government has more revenue because of these increases, then we are asking for the money to be returned to the consumer, to the consumers and to our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u176	Mr Verherstraeten, we agree. But you could make sure that households do not pay directly, because the time for an ENGIE refund – if it is legal – will make it difficult for households to complete their monthly ends. This is a royal decree that will be voted next week. Prime Minister, the energy price, according to Eurostat and the Price Observatory, is increasing significantly in Belgium and has steadily increased under this government. The bill has increased considerably under your legislature. Test-Achats says so too. These three bodies probably broadcast fake news and do not know how to analyse the price of energy! The Committee on the Economy regularly hears the CREG, which regularly shows us that the price of energy is rising. Energy is a basic necessity. Essential goods must be accessible to all citizens. To make them accessible, you can act directly and this is what you are asked to do. After that, you can continue to fight against ENGIE-Electrabel. Mr Verherstraeten, as far as large companies and SMEs are concerned, the energy standard is found in the government statement you voted for. The minister has promised it for four years, but she is still not on the table. It is your policy that is at stake today. The tools we had, such as the safety net, price blocking or the energy standard, are not on the table today. Energy policy is your failure!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u177	Mr President, without being too long, I will try to show a little pedagogy. Mr Nollet, we have decided to question the finance services in order to have projections of what the impact of the evolution of energy prices in the context of VAT could be in terms of tax revenues in an attempt to objectify things. We obviously do not know for how long there will be a potential price increase, hence the importance of working on security of supply which can contribute as quickly as possible to normalizing the situation in terms of prices. Secondly, Mr Hedebouw showed last Thursday a picture of CREG that is quite revealing. Indeed, it shows a peak in prices in Belgium at the end of September. This table also shows that Belgium is in the European peloton with regard to prices in general, outside this part of September. I will make a further point on the issue of imports and Germany. To be very precise, there is no direct interaction between Germany and Belgium, but it is possible via France and the Netherlands. A member of the CDH used the words loop flows earlier. This is an extremely important subject. Why? We have had a discussion between European countries with Germany – and not just Belgium – on this issue of loop flows, which is a structural problem, in relation to European law, respect for the principle of competition and European rules in this field. My conversation with the chancellor is about two points. We must first ensure that during this winter we can take advantage of its infrastructure if necessary. In fact, today it is Germany which mainly uses these infrastructures to ensure that electricity produced in the north can circulate in the south of Germany. This therefore reduces the European capacity to rely more on interconnections. There are two discussions with Germany: short-term issues, in order to guarantee security of supply, and structural work, not only with Germany, but also with other European countries. To be operational, this interview had been prepared by prior contact between Minister Marghem and her counterpart in Germany, and by prior contacts between different experts. This work will continue over the next few days to ensure that, if necessary, Elia will be able to apply to her German counterpart. We will, I hope, get an answer that will help resolve this issue of security of supply. I'm going to ENGIE Electrabel. Is this not an announcement made a few days before a communal election? No. It is not by distraction that I have said what I have said on several occasions in this rostrum. From a legal point of view, it is not that simple. I am not going to improvise here a solution that is neither concrete nor solid. It's the work that's being done right now. It's an example, but you can imagine a lot of things. I use the words "contranent or forced" to talk about the fact that Electrabel will have to assume. Some contracts are fixed, others are not. The relationship is not the same between consumers and SMEs. This obviously has an impact on the type of legal response that can be considered voluntarily or forcefully. It is the very fine work that is carried out very intensely. I have had very imperfect and incomplete first elements in the course of the weekend on legal options, but it is too incomplete at this stage for me to share them today. I would risk giving a message that would lead to misunderstandings or, in any case, a lack of clarity. In a word, we are very clear: we are making sure that ENGIE Electrabel assumes its responsibilities. I want to say to Servais Verherstraeten that we are also very careful to ensure that the most fragile, the most precarised are supported in the first place. This is obviously a priority, and it is also the meaning of federal contributions that are intended to fund social tariffs in our country. Finally, I share the argument that the energy standard is a very important point, but we must remain as loyal and objective as possible: the energy standard is not just a matter for the federal government. You know very well that part of the energy price is a federal responsibility, but another part depends on distribution prices. That is why the Minister is engaged in a dialogue with the Länder and the federation of distributors on tariffs in order to take a decision as soon as possible. And it is not by chance, in what is sometimes a long catalogue of good intentions (this has sometimes been the case in the past), if, in my government statement, I have made sure to identify – among all the important issues that need to be addressed – the five points that I wish to see decided before the end of this legislature, so that we are better prepared, better armed in the future on the energy issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u178	Prime Minister, a question has been asked and, for the third or fourth time since this morning, you have not answered it. This question starts from the observation that electricity prices are exploding, that you want or announce that you are going to try to make ENGIE Electrabel pay, that you are conducting negotiations, which we do not know when they will succeed. What we are asking you is how, immediately, you will be able to lower the electricity bill of our citizens. But to this question, you don't answer... you say "we'll see when we make ENGIE Electrabel pay". We don't know when this will happen. On the other hand, what we know is that for the moment citizens are paying more for their electricity. And it's not close to getting better! On the other hand, we tell you that, given that you have increased VAT, consumers are penalized twice." The first because electricity prices rise, the second because of a surtax that you yourself have decided with your government. We tell you one simple thing: "this surtax, at least, give it back to people!" That's the real life. And not the negotiations you announce with Electrabel, which we do not know when they will take place. Let us hope that they take place, indeed, but for the moment, households are already paying for their electricity more. And they need an answer immediately!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u179	First of all, Prime Minister, let me say that I appreciate the fact that you are entering the debate in practice. This is rare and I stress it positively – and do not try to divert the point! But there is still one dimension, on which I asked you earlier and for which I have not yet had an answer. You told me, with regard to VAT, that the discussion was also under way. It's important. I understand that you have addressed the requests to your colleague. You said it had to be legally built. I agree with you that a legal solution is not being improvised. But Mr Laaouej's question tended to know the timetable for citizens, for SMEs. In other words, when these consumers will be able to recover the amounts they have to pay today. And in this respect, there is an urgent need. I can follow you on the principles, but I would like you to be a little more specific, a little more engaging in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u180	Mr President, I am sorry to have to extend the speech of the excellent colleague, Peter De Roover, but unlike others, I do not want to escape the questions that are asked. I would therefore like to respond. With regard to VAT, I have answered very precisely, Mr Laaouej, but there is no deafer than the one who does not want to hear. Your proposal is to ensure that the State assumes the consequences of an Electrabel responsibility. Each time, you seem to ignore a simple principle: public money is the result of tax paid by taxpayers. That is the reality. We therefore want to ensure that those who have a responsibility bear the consequences. Having said that, I see much more nuance on the part of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, whose party, at the time, had very clearly criticized this reduction in VAT since some observers had rightly noted a form of disguised deferral of indexation. It was therefore a measure which was apparently sympathetic but which, in fact, had an impact in terms of postponing indexation. No one here can seriously deny it. That's the reality. I confirm that the work that is required is to monitor tax revenues to determine whether there really is a financial capacity to use one way or another. But the very first priority is to see how Electrabel assumes its responsibility. Finally, I will not improvise timing by putting an ultimatum, because I do not currently have enough legal elements. However, as I announced to the government on Friday, I decided that the item would come back, in any case, at the Council of Ministers next Friday. A formal decision may not be taken, but, in any case, a state of play will be established. And next Friday, I will report on the progress of the work that is being carried out both financially and legally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u181	Mr President, I apologise for exceeding my speaking time. I'll finish the theme with a sentence. There must be room, as we did with the tax shift, for taxes on wages, so that citizens can decide how they use them and how they use them. Prime Minister, it seems like a topical debate here, while the State of the Union is on the agenda. As has been said, we fully share this concern about energy prices, because it is indeed a basic right for everyone. It has been a right choice for the government to tackle together the three objectives of reducing taxation, reducing public debt and reducing the government deficit, rather than taking one out in order to score better on the other. That combination has brought us a long way in the right direction. Ambition's not a bad word. I used that a few weeks ago, and that was interpreted bizarrely enough as criticism of the government. On behalf of my group and my party, I continue to express the ambition to bring about fundamental changes. At the same time, however, we also want to understand citizens living in uncertainty. The citizens want to know where we are going and they want a future to look forward to. We must not be paralyzed by moments of left-wing populism. After all, soft healers make stinky wounds. However, we must at all times have the empathy and understanding of the difficulties experienced by people as a result of the reforms, which we ask them to step in. It is an old lesson, which we, as a new government party, sometimes have to learn, that rapid changes may be more appropriate to revolutions, while sustainable reforms must be patient and determined. I've written down here that I'm an older man, but I've been much older ever since I wrote that. I sometimes wonder if everything can't just stay the way it is. That's an understandable reflex. Of course, it is impossible to hope for change. We see that there are all kinds of things wrong to combine with sticking to the existing. I would like to refer to the Sicilian epos Il Gattopardo. The old prince Salina sees his cousin Tancredi go to war and the conservative old prince doesn't understand where his young nephew's drive for action comes from. I don't want to quote him. I want to paraphrase him. His statement is that if we resist necessary changes, we lose everything we love. This is the ambition that drives my group: to change what is necessary to keep what is dear to us. The speech of former Prime Minister Di Rupo has shown that the government has changed for a long time. A number of interruptions by the opposition during my speech also confirmed this. Our model is a different model than what the opposition puts forward. Prime Minister, we are counting on you to use the creed 'change what is necessary to keep what is dear to us' over the next few months. Then you will find us loyal to your side.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u182	Mr De Roover, strikingly absent from the Prime Minister's statement of government and also strikingly absent from your statement is the dossier of Belfius and ARCO. You have just invited me to listen carefully to your speech. I would like to use that invitation to ask your group about this. After all, during previous government declarations, the Prime Minister has always made a point of including and clarifying the 800 000 co-operatives in that dossier, but today there is no mention of it. Your party chairman himself said that he feared that it was a lost file, but what is the government's position and what is the position of the N-VA? After all, in this crucial week, people should be allowed to know what the government intends to do with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u183	You are asking the government a question and you are asking my group a question. I will reply on behalf of my group. We believe that all legal and European provisions can be followed in the search for solutions. I would almost dare to say that on his Electrabels there are a number of first leaders who should show themselves in that case. For the rest, we have defined the contours within which serious solutions are possible and they must also be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u184	The government clearly communicated both cases a few weeks ago. So I can only confirm what I said a few weeks ago. Firstly, we have considered that the market conditions were not positive enough to decide now on an IPO of Belfius. As far as the principle is concerned, we are open to going to an IPO, but we must choose the best momentum and we will regularly evaluate the situation. Secondly, as far as ARCO is concerned, we in the government have prepared a draft solution, but we are still in dialogue with the European Commission on this. We will therefore continue to work with the Commission in order to achieve maximum results in accordance with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip248x.u185	Colleagues, we are now taking an hour's break. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 9 October 2018 at 14.16 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, 9 October 2018, at 2.16 p.m.
