ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u1	Mr Franken, as you know and as many of my colleagues' questions on the subject testify, it is time for reception centres to be closed. As has been said, this is a situation of uncertainty which weighs heavily on the morale of the workers in these structures. In addition to this, there is another element concerning workplace safety and prevention structures for motivated agents or contractors, despite a stressful and constantly changing environment. It seems, in fact, that the savings imposed by the government do not allow Fedasil's management to respond to the concerns in this area, as evidenced by a letter from a trade union organisation at the basic consultation committee of February 14, 2018, which remained a dead letter. On the one hand, the development of asylum policy and the end of material aid represent new risks. On the other hand, frustration is great because the economic context does not allow for an acceptable solution: poor hygiene conditions in collective reception facilities (gale, buggies, etc.).), ageing and poorly secure infrastructure, planned "animation, mobility and neighbourhood initiatives" budgets. In some centres, keys have as many keys as there are doors in the centre. Of course, this is not ideal in the event of an emergency! These points, frequently denounced without ever being solved, are indicative of the problems encountered by the workers on the ground. At the same time, the in-house prevention service consists of a single prevention adviser, purely virtual administrative assistance and two part-time psychologists. For an active employer throughout the country, in multiple locations, employing several hundred workers on continuous service and fulfilling a mission as specific as the reception of applicants for international protection of all ages, nationalities, physical and mental health, you will hardly agree that this situation is intolerable and greatly disturbing. The only prevention adviser must now prioritize his/her tasks and is no longer able to fulfil his/her legal duties/obligations. Mr Franken, I would therefore like to ask you about the guarantees that you can bring to your attention in this matter for a structural response to the human resources needs of the internal preventive service, a real and real culture of prevention within the Fedasil agency and a special fund for taking preventive measures in response to emergencies in the field of safety and protection of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u2	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, thank you for your question. I assure you, she's taken my full attention. A distinction should be made between the number of persons in the prevention service at the Fedasil headquarters and the number of persons involved in the prevention tasks, which, however, do not belong hierarchically to that service. Thus, this advisor does not perform all the prevention tasks alone. It has, in fact, relays in each reception centre. There is a real culture of prevention among the members of the agency. A great deal of training and information is devoted to it. The government agreement does not provide for the creation of special funds. In addition, I have forwarded your question to Fedasil.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. She doesn't reassure me, but I'm glad she caught your attention. If there are already elements of a response, it would be good to pass them on to the concerned trade union organisations. It appears that, since February, they have not obtained any guarantees. To see more clearly, I will ask you a written question with encrypted elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it is my responsibility that, since your decision to dismantle part of the Fedasil reception network, the reception situation has become very problematic. We have already mentioned, before the suspension of parliamentary work, budgetary concerns on Fedasil's staff. My colleagues also spoke to you about the closure of specific centres. I don't fail to worry about the continuation of the closures. Following some of the echoes I receive from people on the ground, this policy of reducing the number of reception places would lead, among other things, to placing other groups considered to be vulnerable – young adults, families, i.e. accompanied minors, within wings specifically dedicated to MENA. If this were to prove correct, it would be sufficient to show that there is something deeply irrational about the dismantling of the centres in relation to the needs, needs of our reception network, but also the needs of the candidates who are welcomed there. These are specific audiences who need specific support and protection. Mr Franken, do you confirm that, following the closure of reception places, different target groups are grouped within the same wing? Do you confirm that the MENA no longer receive a reception in premises specifically dedicated to them and exclusively dedicated to them? In terms of management, including teams, what is the impact of this measure? Are additional resources planned? What is the overall capacity of MENA wings in Fedasil centres today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u5	Mr.President, Fernandez Fernandez, the government decided in March 2018 to approve a second plan to reduce the reception network. These included 2,854 collective places and 3,600 individual places at the end of 2018. To dispel any misunderstanding, I stress here that these are not MENA seats. MENA wings are currently under-occupied. Over the past two months, we have seen an increase in the influx of newcomers. In order to make full use of all available seats, it was decided, on an exceptional and temporary basis, to occupy part of the seats of the MENA wings, as was already the case in the past. This includes the temporary conversion of these places into family places. The infrastructure of the reception facilities is such that MENA wing rooms are actually made available either to families already present within the centre and already living with the MENA without difficulty, or to young adults identified as vulnerable by the observation and guidance centres. MENA continues to benefit from the reception and accompaniment adapted to this audience. Temporary reception for other target groups does not impact this specific monitoring and support. In order to ensure this and to make the necessary changes, an assessment of the reception of these target groups in MENA wings is planned. There is no impact in terms of team management, as the MENA wing workers continue to deal exclusively with the support of the currently few MENA. The other target groups are accompanied by the adult teams within the centre. The host network currently has 1,686 seats for MENA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u6	Mr Franken, thank you for your answers. I understand that MENA is understaffed in relation to the places available. But you have reduced the number of places by 2,854 units – about 3,000 places. However, there is a shortage of places, since we are going to occupy places that are not dedicated to certain target groups. This proves that there is something that does not work in the way the government responds to needs. You will therefore understand that I will not fail to come back with a question on the assessment of the reception. You're saying it's going to happen, but I think this evaluation should be permanent. Even if I hear what you're telling me, that the missions of each other are preserved, publics are still mixed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u7	There are enough MENA seats. We have not removed seats, but we need more places. So we converted places for families. Mr. Courard did it, I did it. This is a strategy that we use when places are missing. It's an operational choice and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u8	I hear what you're saying. I know Mr. Courard did. Except the situation wasn't exactly the same. You're closing seats. It is a decision of the government, which I do not share, but which I understand. You reduce the number of places, while there is a need for places. You then use seats that are reserved for MENA. It's a policy, Secretary of State. We do not share it and we will never share it. But it doesn't matter, I understand it. What I'm just saying is that there's something that, for me, is not consistent. In addition, an evaluation will take place. You're saying it yourself. As I have just said, for me, this assessment must be permanent. Mr President, you have no doubt that I will come back very soon with a question on this assessment, and perhaps on more concrete figures. I will, of course, introduce a written question if I ask for figures, so as not to burden the committee with technical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Peteghem's 26985 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, a Serbian family was detained in a closed centre from 14 August 2018 (with a 3 day interruption) until its expulsion. Indeed, since I tabled this question on 26 September 2018, and today this family has been deported to Serbia. In any event, the maximum limit of 28 days set by the Royal Decree establishing this family unit has been largely exceeded. The lawyers of this Serbian family have filed a petition with the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child within the framework of its jurisdiction over individual complaints. This United Nations body is the highest body in charge of monitoring the implementation by States of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (CIDE). Since 2011, the Committee has been competent to receive individual complaints from children or their lawyers whose rights have been violated. Belgium ratified this complaints mechanism in 2014. The Committee ordered the Belgian Government to release this family as an urgent and provisional measure, in accordance with the provisions of the CIDE, "measures which are necessary in exceptional circumstances to prevent irreparable harm from being caused to the victim and to the victims of the alleged violations". However, the Office of Foreigners, over which you have authority, refused this release on the grounds that the United Nations Committee would not be competent. Yesterday I had an exchange with the Prime Minister in this committee which explained to me that there were two interpretations of the competence of the CIDE: that of the Office of Foreigners and that of the SPF Foreign Affairs. Mr Secretary of State, according to a new child-psychiatric report, the children of this Serbian family continue to suffer from the psychological consequences of their detention in a closed centre. The harm that more than 30 days of incarceration for children can entail is immense. Why didn't you follow the order of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child? What reasons do you use not to respect Belgium's international commitments but also the fundamental rights of the members of this family? At the same time as you were making this decision, the Prime Minister was busy in New York to brace the laurels of our country as a human rights defender. Do you consider this position in the United Nations compatible with this non-compliance with a judgement of a body of that same organization?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u11	Mr President, I will not write down the retroacts, since my colleague, Mr Hellings, has just done so quite thoroughly. For my part, a few days ago, I had already questioned the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who confirmed that he had received the documents from the Committee on the Rights of the Child. He was sending you back the hot potato, saying he wasn't competent. I would like to add to the questions that have already been put by Mr Hellings. Have you received the letter from this Committee? Can you pass it on to the House, so that we can read its content? That doesn't seem very clear. I did not attend the Prime Minister's response yesterday, but in view of what the Foreign Minister said to me, it was not. Do you confirm that your services have an end to not receiving this injunction? If so, was it in agreement with you? Do you agree with the decision that was made by your services or did you make it yourself? If so, how do you justify refusing an approach which constitutes an implementation of an international text to which Belgium is a signatory? This refusal comes, as my colleague Mr Hellings pointed out, at a time when Belgium, through our Prime Minister, was going to say how attached it was to human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u12	Mr Hellings, in your introduction, you seem to ignore the following points. The maximum period of 28 days has not been exceeded. The persons concerned disappeared from the open houses to which they had been transferred after the 28-day period of stay. A new retention decision was taken after a new interception of the persons concerned. A new stay started in one of the family housing units. The length of stay in the family housing depends on the behaviour of the persons concerned. They could have, at any time, terminated the procedures they had introduced to prevent their removal and not to return. I will not again question the continued detention. See the answers to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez (No 26924), the answers to Mrs De Conick (No 26728), etc. Many questions have been asked and many discussions have taken place. Where a stay has not been granted and the alternatives to unrelenting removal have been exhausted and the persons concerned are struggling to circumvent the order to leave the territory, a solution must be found to repatriate these families in humane conditions. I have already said this and repeated it many times: criticisms of family housing conditions do not take into account the situation of the family that was previously living in dreadful conditions. I can't divulge anything about this because of the Privacy Act. A supervised return with support for housing and schooling in the country of origin is, in my view, a better solution for these families than the circumstances in which they lived in Belgium: in freedom but in illegality. On the contrary, the framework offered in family housing and before that, in open housing seems to have a rather positive impact in terms of their precarious living conditions, in which they lived freely. The situation of the family has changed in the meantime. The family returned voluntarily on 9 October, accompanied by an official of the Office of Foreigners. Housing is planned for three months in Belgrade. They will benefit for three months from vouchers for the purchase of food. The immigration officer will assist them in registering for the commune, school, etc. and for the purchase of school supplies. As a result of this request for an interim measure to release the family, the family chose to fly to Belgrade with its four children. As a result, she left the territory voluntarily. I have here in my possession the answer we sent them. I'll send it to the secretariat for a copy. In my opinion, the file was properly closed without any problems. Whether you are against this solution is a clear fact! You will not change my opinion and I will not change yours. We can still talk for hours and days, I don't think that neither you nor I will change our minds. This debate has taken place several times in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u13	Thank you, Secretary of State. The intervention of a third international body is a new element. It's not just any of them. It is a United Nations body responsible for verifying compliance by Member States with the rights of the child. She gave an opinion. You're going to give us the letter you sent her. When it comes to human rights, two interpretations coexist: that of your administration and that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the case of fundamental rights, especially where children are concerned, the broadest and most child-friendly interpretation should prevail. Here, however, there is a double speech: an internal speech to Belgium, yours, and an external speech, that of the Prime Minister. Our international commitments to respect the human rights of children must take precedence. This must take precedence over any other security considerations related to asylum, immigration or electoral issues, possibly personal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u14	Your opinion is very clear. I just want to point out that I have won all the procedures relating to fundamental and children's rights. This magnificent democracy allows you to repeat your opinion thousands of times, but judges and courts are competent to qualify violations of international rights. To date, more than 30 proceedings have been initiated in connection with this family, which have confirmed that there is no infringement of fundamental rights. You can insinuate what you want, as well as the United Nations, but that is not correct. Judges say there are no legal problems. I know them very well and I'm sure they would report these problems if there were any.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u15	Secretary of State, the UN committee in question ordered you to release this family. You received... in any case, he ordered you to release...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u17	In any event, it is an interpretation of the FPS Foreign Affairs, which signed this international convention on the rights of the child and ensures that it is ratified. In addition, this UN committee is competent. Secondly, Mr.Franken: Do not forget that your house visitation bill has not passed the ramp here in the House, probably because you see and your partners in the majority have seen that this bill is contrary to fundamental rights, which is why we will never mention it again in this commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u18	Mr. Secretary of State, I want to tell you that it is not Mr. Hellings who has zero. Through the zero you give to Mr Hellings, you give zero to a UN committee that still has powers, has given an injunction and Belgium is bound by international commitments. I think we are not in the wrong: I still invite you to read the reply of Foreign Minister Reynders and you will see that it is more lukewarm than yours, even if it expresses it subtly with the elegance and diplomacy that characterizes it. On politics, of course, we will not agree. We have already had the debate ten times and in my opinion we will still have it. It is simply a matter of saying that you have failed to comply with the injunction of a UN committee to which Belgium is committed. But we have our answers and I will read carefully the document that you are going to forward to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, for the past few days the services of the Office of Foreigners have been communicating via a Facebook page, mainly in English. The content of the messages on this page is such that many Internet users have wondered about its official character. For example, there are images of police officers arresting a black person, who is assumed to be undocumented. It is barred from the slogan "No to illegal migration, dot come to Belgium". We can also see pictures of closed centres designed to discourage migration candidates or photos of a queue in front of the premises of the Office of Foreigners where clearly identifiable users appear, in disregard of the most basic rules regarding their right to privacy and I will add, to security. There are also translations in English of an interview with you by the VRT, which seem to have been withdrawn since then. Mr Franken, these methods of "shock" communication may be in vogue in Australia which seems to be your model, but they have shocked many Belgians who deplore in particular the terrible image that is given of our country and its citizens abroad. Let's not even talk about our administration! Is this page actually an official page created by your services? Do you validate it? Do you think it is the role of the Office of Foreigners to convey this kind of suggestive images, as in the examples I have given you? Is it not the principle of giving applicants objective information about the procedures that concern them and not of playing subliminal deterrence? In the event that this communication is actually an official communication, by what means has it been validated? Above all, how is it assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u20	With the Action Plan against Migrants in Transit, we are launching a deterrent campaign against potential victims of trafficking in human beings who are planning to come to our country. In this way, we want clearly to deny the false promises of the traffickers. The aim is to communicate the strict measures taken by the Belgian Government through messages to specific nationalities. In the short term, the Office of Foreigners will use a Facebook page "Belgian Immigration Department" which will broadcast ads in six languages in both Belgium and Europe. In the medium term, I have set aside an additional budget for an important digital campaign where the emphasis will be on the denial of rumours and the lies about migration in Belgium. This campaign is likely to begin in December. In the short term, with our campaign 'No to illegal migration, don't come to Belgium', we specifically address illegal migrants who, via our country, wish to join Britain and illegal migrants in transit countries or 'hot spots' on their way to Britain. I can inform you that this announcement has already been viewed more than 1.4 million times. We will work well with the British authorities. European asylum bodies have already informed us about this. In the coming weeks, we will also broadcast new announcements on asylum and voluntary returns so that this target group has the right information. In addition, illegal migrants detained in closed centres as a result of police operations are systematically informed about the possibility of applying for asylum. The old Facebook page on the campaign in the context of the Iraqi asylum crisis has been closed. You also asked a question about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u21	Thank you for your answers. What still worries me is that the words 'plan of struggle' and 'victims' are combined in the same sentence. We finally don't know who your message is to, the victims or the traffickers... all this is not clear. I find once again that we are the wrong target. I have a problem with the images as they are used. I remain convinced that if we talk about victims, we must talk about their rights before trying to brandish the flag of fear. These people are in despair. I don't think that's how we'll fight human traffickers. Once again, you talk about the fight against traffickers but your messages are addressed to those who are already victims of the situation in their country and who are potentially victims of smugglers. On the other hand, it may not please everyone, but there is a whole series of procedures in Belgium and I would like to see the attention also paid to the procedures available to applicants and not always to the fact that they must not come especially because here we are imprisoning black people, because the queues are long... This is the feeling that the images give anyway. Communication is not good and I am sure that the objective is not achieved. Again, as we've been saying for months, we're the wrong target.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u22	Question No 27122 by Mrs Van Hoof is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u23	Secretary of State, on 9 October, a 36-year-old Eritrean refugee, Gebre, committed suicide in the closed centre of Vottem. This man was what you call a "transmigrant" who entered Europe by Bulgaria where he had been recognized as a refugee but where he had also been the victim of racist violence. He was arrested in our country and detained for four months. The Chamber of Council had given a favourable opinion on his release, but the Foreigners' Office had appealed. Shortly before his suicide, he was transferred from one wing of the closed centre to another and placed alone in one room. Following this tragedy, some 400 people from several associations such as Médecins du Monde, ICRÉ, CNCD, 11.11.11. and the Ligue des droits de l'Homme demonstrated, on 13 October, in front of the closed centre of Vottem. According to these associations, there were clear signs of his suffering during his detention. But the Foreign Office wouldn't have done anything. Mr. Secretary of State, first, why did the Foreign Office appeal against the advice of the Chamber of Council? Second, did this person have access to psychological assistance? Thirdly, why was this person placed in isolation in Vottem? Why was there no surveillance? Fourth, how many isolation placements have been made at the centre of Vottem this year and in 2017? Is the proportion similar in other closed centres? Fifth, is the risk of suicide significant in a closed facility? Do you have any data on this? How many people are currently suffering from depression in the country's closed centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, it is reported that on the night of Monday 8 on Tuesday 9 October a man who has been staying in the closed center of Vottem for four months has taken his own life. Is that right? What exactly happened there? According to his environment, the young Eritrean showed clear signs of depression. He spent most of his time in a joint room, but a few hours before his suicide, the man was transferred to a room alone. It is not the first time such messages have come out of Vottem. In March 2017, there was also a message from a man who died in an isolation cell. How do you evaluate the mental health policy in the closed centres? What measures do you intend to take to improve this? What evolution is there in the suicide and depression rates in the closed centers? I would like figures per year from 2014, each time compared to the total number of people placed in a closed centre in that year. Is there an investigation into the specific case that has just been cited?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u25	Mr Franken, I am not going to go back to the dramatic circumstances of Gebre's suicide, but I was shocked by the statements of the Director General of the Foreign Office. He said: "Thousands of people pass through the institution every year. It is therefore not unreal for a death to die." Here is the conclusion of his reaction, with particular emphasis on living conditions in a closed centre, which he felt were excellent. There is no mention of mere humanity or the most elementary compassion for what is being played out every time a man, a woman, a family are locked up and, in some unfortunate cases, they end their lives. How do you appreciate this statement? Has it been coordinated with your firm? Considering that every drama of this nature is too much drama, what steps do you intend to take to prevent it from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u26	Mr President, it is clear that this is a tragedy and that this is not the first time this has happened. It is also clear that confinement is always a source of stress. I will give you some elements of answer. Some questions have also been asked about statistical data, which I will answer as comprehensively as possible. If there are further questions afterwards, they can be submitted in writing and I will certainly answer them. Regarding the handling of the file, I can report that the person was intercepted by the police on 11 July 2018. He was illegally on the territory and has since been locked up in the closed center in Vottem. My administration has taken the necessary steps to bring Bulgaria back with the application of the existing bilateral agreements. The person concerned had applied for and received asylum there. At the end of August, a first attempt was made to remove him to Bulgaria, but he refused to leave. The planned subsequent removal in September was cancelled for procedural reasons, in particular an appeal by the Foreign Affairs Office against the decision of the Board Chamber. The Foreign Affairs Department has appealed against the Council Chamber's decision to release. We thought that was appropriate, because for the reason that Liège's council room based itself on the presence of untranslated Dutch-language documents in the file, a purely administrative matter. We appeal against such decisions by default and translate those documents. The decision of the court to release had nothing to do with the condition of the person concerned, but was purely an administrative matter. Following the final judgment of the Chamber of Inclamation, a new removal was planned in October. So we won our profession, so he had to be removed. The maximum period of detention was respected. Due to his refusal of departure and the subsequent appeal procedure, the removal could not take place before October. The person concerned received legal support from a pro-Deo attorney. Now I come to the questions about the stay in the centre of Vottem and the specific follow-up. During his stay, the person concerned was seen several times by the medical team of the centre. No specific medical or psychological problems were identified. The return to Bulgaria gave rise to resistance on the part of the resident, but for the rest, the staff did not identify any abnormal or problematic behaviour throughout their stay in the centre. The person concerned had close contact with another Eritrean resident, who was removed from the territory a few days before his suicide. Involved had then asked for a change of wing, to be able to have more contact with other Eritreans and the management allowed it from 8 October. He was just staying in the residents' wing, he wasn't in isolation. He had a friend or someone he could get along with, an Eritrean, with whom he could speak in the same language, but it was removed. He then asked himself if he could be transferred to the other wing, because there were more Eritreans there, so that he could talk to people again. He was limited in language. We've authorized that transfer, at his request. I insist that there was no isolation. I have read a lot of things about this in recent days that are absolutely manifestally incorrect, as very often in personal files, and I do not know who is spreading all kinds of rumors for the benefit of I-don't-know-what agenda. Actually, I do, but I'm not gonna start a polemic here. However, I would like to make a few points. The room in Liège said he could be released. We've appealed. It wasn't about his condition, it was about an administrative matter of untranslated documents. We also immediately won that appeal. So he had to be removed to Bulgaria. The person concerned had already received asylum in Bulgaria and therefore had to stay there. I would also like to emphasise that he was not placed in isolation. He wasn't forced to transfer. He asked for a transfer himself. That was allowed, so that he would have more social contact with other Eritreans, with whom he could talk. That's very important. So I hope I won't have to read some of those things anymore, but I'm not under any illusions. Some people like fake news. He was just staying in the residents' wing, so he wasn't in isolation. On October 9, at night around 1 am 10, a resident of his wing sounded the alarm and the staff was called to his room urgently. There he was found with a cord around his neck, which was attached to the bunk bed. It was established that he wasn't breathing. The MUG was immediately called and was quickly on the scene. The doctor has determined that the person concerned had died. The body was released by the parquet and transferred to a funeral home. The management of the center is currently trying to get in touch with the family members, via the Eritrean community in Belgium. So we're trying to contact those relatives. We always do. I hope it works. As regards the number of deaths and suicides in the closed centres, the closed centres have been facing 14 deaths since 1997, including six due to suicide. It must be clear that both the DVZ and myself deeply regret each of these deaths. As far as psychological guidance in the closed centres is concerned, each centre has a psychological team supported by two coordinating psychologists of the central department, in order to adequately accommodate and guide residents with psychological needs. Residents with psychological needs and other additional care residents will be closely monitored in consultation with the file-handler in order to determine whether any special-need support should be provided in the context of their return. In the centre itself, these additional caregivers are working with specific action and handling guidelines in order to provide adapted care and guidance. The psychologists at DVZ are talking to each other about the concrete files. They regularly conduct a critical analysis, with or without the help of externals, in order to improve their operation. Colleagues, it is therefore a point of interest. Psychological guidance is given especially at difficult times in such a closed center, especially when one sits there for a long period of time. This is a very regrettable and tragic story. I pulled that file immediately after I got the message of death at night. I went through the file personally, too. In my opinion, everything has happened correctly on our side. In my view, no mistakes were made there or signals that were there were not picked up. It is, of course, extremely regrettable, let that be the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u27	Secretary of State, you tell us, "I don't think there were any signs of his state of distress." The organizations I mentioned earlier believe that there were clear signs of his suffering during his detention. And all you're telling us is, "I don't think there was any." That seems insufficient to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u28	Mr Van Hees, I do not know if this is a translation problem, but that is not what I said. I said that medical staff had not noticed any signs of depression or psychological problems. I'm not the one who thinks there were no signals, but it's the people who work, day and night, in the center of Vottem who didn't indicate any psychological problems for this individual. They are medical professionals who make it clear that there was no signal. Personally, I don't have their skills. Maybe you have them, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u29	Mr. Secretary of State, to please you, we're going to say that this is a translation problem. Organizations have said that there are clear signs of his suffering while in detention, but you claim that this is not the case. According to your answer, this person obviously did not have psychological help; there was medical help but not specifically psychological help. The situation is dramatic. You recognize him. This is the situation of a person who flees from hell in his country of origin, who returns to a new hell in Bulgaria and then arrives in Belgium, where he again experiences a situation of suffering that is clearly unbearable because it puts an end to his life. You tell us that it is very sad, but what is sad, Secretary of State, is the consequences of your policy. You refer to the fact that he had political refugee status in Bulgaria. Yes, but if, in Bulgaria, the situation is also inhuman for this person, what do we do? In that case, we have to reconsider things. Obviously, there was an appeal against the decision. You say it's purely administrative. However, behind any defects of form, the substance of the file concerns a person who moves from one hell to another and who eventually ends his or her life.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u30	Mr. Secretary, suicide is always tragic. It is very legitimate for parliamentary questions to be asked on this subject, even if it concerns an individual case. You say that there are no reports that would indicate that there was a major problem that could possibly have led to a suicide. In principle, we can always request these reports for inspection, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u31	If there are none, it's hard to see them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u32	Occasionally, the subject was subject to a medical check.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u33	After the death a report was made by the center management, as happens with every incident. I don't know if that should be looked at. Basically, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u34	So, in principle, could we request that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u35	I have said here what that report says, but if you do not believe me, you can control it yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u36	It is not immediately the subject of this question, but, as Mr Van Hees said, for someone receiving asylum in Bulgaria, there may be reason not to include that asylum. Was there a lack of perspective for the person concerned in Bulgaria? What are the circumstances in Bulgaria? This is, of course, a very fundamental debate and we are talking about Dublin, readmission agreements and transit agreements to countries where there may be very little prospect for recognised refugees. In any case, it is important that we make the conditions as human as possible, especially in closed centres where there are detentions, in order to avoid such tragic cases. In my question I pointed out another incident in the same closed center in Vottem, in March 2017, in which a man died in an isolation cell. Hence my question as to whether you are prepared to examine the conditions in the closed centre in Vottem, to see whether there is no structural error there. I believe that these incidents justify such an investigation, especially if it is true that in March 2017, someone died in solitary confinement. There may not be a link between the two incidents or a link with the structural conditions in that centre, I am not speaking of them, but it seems to me that it is worth examining this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u37	I did not receive a reply from the Secretary of State regarding Mr. Rosemont's sentence. Don't you want to intervene? Who says word consent, it is an old proverb but in this case, I have the feeling that it is reality. This sentence, which reduces Gebre's fate to a simple collateral damage, to a statistic in the "losses and profits" of closed centres, says a lot about the state of mind of the Director of the Office of Foreigners. I'm sorry. Your silence and the non-condemnation of this sentence say even more about your state of mind and your failure to question certain aspects of your policy. I can only regret it sadly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u38	I did not communicate because, according to the procedure, the Foreign Office communicates in such cases. They always do. You should check it out, it was in the past and it is still in the past. These are tragic things that I never communicate about. I never did. I did not communicate because the procedure normally provides for the Office to do so. Moreover, when a problem occurs in Vottem, as a parliamentarian, you always have the right to visit the closed centre. You just have to send me a request. There are NGOs that are there almost daily. There's a lot of people coming over the floor. Mr De Vriendt, if you want to go there yourself, you should simply spend time on your agenda. Do I think it's going wrong in the field of psychological counseling? No, there is the necessary bestaffining and I believe that everything is going very smoothly there. Moreover, both cases have absolutely nothing to do with each other. Anyway, if you've received any other signals, you may transfer them to me in private and I'll study them. There's another syndical meeting tomorrow. So such things are constantly being followed up by our people on the ground. Should there really be a problem of underbestaffining, for example if the psychologists were not present because of illness or pregnancy, I would get signals about that. However, I have not received a single signal and I believe that everything is going as it should. Tragic things can happen in the closed centres, especially after the migration crisis and after a number of other events. The Eritreans are a vulnerable group anyway. That is why they are recognised as refugees. The story that people cannot be sent back to Bulgaria is a European story, and that must be settled with the comrades in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u39	Mr Secretary of State, a suicide could, in your opinion, lead to a thorough investigation of the closed centre and to check whether the circumstances are still right there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u40	I understand that the administration has communicated. If it's restraint, I salute her. But the way we communicate is shocking. You are responsible for this administration and could, before Parliament, condemn it to the extent that it refers a man's suicide to a simple collateral damage. This is serious and it says a great deal about the current state of mind of the Office of Foreigners and its Director.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u41	Mr President, the Secretary of State, on 1 and 2 October, a police operation was organised at the stations between Leuven and Landen to arrest refugees. Twenty-nine refugees qualified as transmigrants were arrested in Landen and a total of 39 persons were detained administratively. We don't know why, but you were there during this operation. A host of the Citizens' Refugee Support Platform was also on site, by chance, and filmed the raid. The police asked him to stop filming, but the man refused and was beaten by the police. According to this person, you came here to congratulate the police, some of whom came from Lubbeek, your municipality, on his work. You were accompanied by a photographer taking pictures of the action. Mr Secretary of State, your colleague Mr Jambon has already answered my questions about police intervention. I would like to ask you today about your presence on the spot. Mr Secretary of State, how and by whom have you been warned of the existence and modalities of this operation? Local mayors say that they had not been informed about the situation? In what capacity were you present during this raid? Were you a mayor or Secretary of State responsible, particularly with regard to the activities of the Office of Foreigners? Why were you there? How many officers from the Foreign Office were present?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it was not a "raft", although I know that this is the kind of terminology that the extremist left likes to use. Like the word "deportation", it is a very heavy term of meaning that you often use. As a hate sower, the use of such terms is entirely on your behalf. That was absolutely not a raid. It would be more appropriate to talk about a police operation focusing on the control of illegal residents in the context of transit migration. The local police in Lubbeek, where I am a mayor as you know, also participated in this operation. The head of the corps informs me of operations in Lubbeek territory because of my status as mayor. This is not the first time I have attended a coordinated police operation in my capacity as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. It seems to me important not to be disconnected from the reality on the ground and from the problems that services face in relation to the problem of transmigrants. So it's to better see and understand that I'm involved in this kind of operation. Two staff members of the Office of Foreigners were present, one in the field and one in the police office in Leuven, where the administrative procedures for migrants in transit were carried out. I was present as Secretary of State. The acting mayor wasn't there. I'm also the mayor of the title and it makes sense that I was present. I see absolutely no problem in that regard. I'm qualified as Secretary of State. I'm the mayor of Lubbeek. The problem has been on our territory for months. So, of course I was there. To be clear, I was at Vertrijk station in Boutersem. I wasn't in Landen. I came there later when the action was almost over. I saw this individual who is now very angry. I don't know what happened because I wasn't there at the time of the facts. I saw the transit migrants there. All I can bring in concrete information is that, in Vertrijk, I saw a young woman who said she was 19. She was obviously pregnant, seven to eight months. I asked what was going on with her because I thought the situation was not right. His plan was to spend the whole night in Vertrijk parking lot trying to pass in England. I felt that it was not possible and therefore insisted that she apply for asylum. She said no way... "I don't want to because my husband is already there." I said she wouldn't be locked up. My staff at the Agency have stated that they never do so. An ambulance was called from Louvain and Gasthuisberg. She is now being treated by a doctor in Gasthuisberg. That's all. There's nothing more we can do. She did not want to apply for asylum and this problem is serious and very sad too. This happened in a very humane and correct way. What happened with this individual who is Belgian, I don't know. They were very restless and his wife or daughter... His sister, his daughter or his wife, I don't know. Another woman was also very restless. I went to Landen and she was there. She was screaming... He yelled at me. I can't do anything in these situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, as I have told you, I will not discuss the facts here, because they concern more of your colleague Jambon, who, moreover, did not speak the whole truth, not to say worse, in the answers to the questions in plenary. The subject that interests me here is your presence on the spot. I'm trying to follow your reasoning and your explanations about your presence on the spot. Indeed, on the one hand, you tell us that you are informed by your head of body. It also seems to me that you are the mayor of Lubbeek, but the mayor is prevented. On the other hand, you say you were there as Secretary of State. The head of the corps informs the prevented mayor, but it is the Secretary of State who moves. I'm trying to follow the logic behind your presence. I think it was illegal for you to be informed. You didn't have to be informed of this operation. It is illegal and irregular that you have been informed of this and that you have been present on the spot. You were clearly present in a dubious period, as we are in the midst of an electoral campaign. I think you used information that you were not entitled to be present and filmed, as part of an electoral campaign itself a little dubious. But this last point is a political assessment, which each elector will be able to make. Your presence on the spot is a big problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u44	I wasn't filmed. A photographer I didn't know was there. I didn't invite him. I didn't even know he was here. I was present as Secretary of State during a police operation, in which the Foreign Office was engaged. I can attend all the police operations where agents from the Foreign Office are here. Illegal? When it's illegal, please, file a complaint, and don't cry here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u45	I maintain that you didn't have to be present. It is not a matter of complaining, but of showing how you use information that you should not have access to to to organize a staging in an election campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u46	Mr President, the opening of the Administrative Centre for Transmigrants in Steenokkerzeel ensured that the people who would be released because they could not be expelled immediately would be accompanied to DVZ to apply for asylum. In practice it appears that these people were simply dropped into the Maximilian Park. Now that is not even the case anymore. Apparently, that group of people had to walk out of the center on foot. On Thursday 18 October 21 people would have been put at the door in small groups. About half of these would be children. What policy do you have with regard to detected transmigrants who cannot be held in the new center in Steenokkerzeel after inspection? Is it true that people from the administrative center were simply thrown out and not taken to the Foreign Office? Is it true that this was also about minors? Will you change your policy in the light of what happened there?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u47	I think you've been misinformed. On 17, 18 and 19 October, the illegals centre was closed because of the EU summit. There were therefore no CSI intakes and outtakes on 18 October. In the committee of 2 October, I have already explained in detail the operation of the CSI. Let me repeat my explanation: in the CSI, the police forces bring in people who are being intercepted in the context of transit migration. That's where these people are waiting for a decision from the DVZ. The identification of unaccompanied minors and the subsequent succession are not the responsibility of the DVZ, but of the FPS Justice. So they're being referred to custody. The co-operation of the custody service will be on the ground, in the CSI, at certain times. Any further questions on this matter should be addressed to the Minister of Justice. Persons with an ongoing asylum procedure will not be detained and will be able to leave the CSI immediately. Vulnerable persons are not detained and will be able to leave the CSI immediately. In case of suspicion that a person is a victim of trafficking in human beings or smuggling with aggravating circumstances, the very good cooperation with the specialised centres will be maintained. It remains that victims will be referred to these specialised centres by the police and the public prosecutor. Both the police and the Foreign Office have a good understanding with these services. All other persons go from the CSI to the holding centre 127a, where the control is carried out in Eurodac. Where possible, they shall be transferred to the CIB for disposal under Dublin or for removal to the country of origin, if possible. Fifth, if it appears that the removal cannot be organised by DVZ, then it will be exempted from 127bis and CIB, as DVZ can only hold a person for disposal. Those persons should themselves comply with the order to leave the territory which is served on them. Persons who are not detained, and persons who are exempt from detention in 127a, shall be taken to the DVZ asylum office in Brussels. They will be informed at the centre that they can apply for asylum here. If one wants to leave voluntarily, more information and possible support can be obtained from the Fedasil Return Office, which is located next to the asylum point. However, despite all efforts and information campaigns, there is very little follow-up by transit migrants to the offer of asylum applications. Even those who come from conflict zones and are therefore eligible for asylum do not wish to make use of them. As I have said on several occasions, these are people who have often been trying to evade Dublin rules for months and therefore do not want to apply for asylum. The purpose of the transit migrants is to get into the United Kingdom. So far, no person has applied for asylum in the CSI. Asylum can be applied for at any time, including in the closed centres. The social assistants in the closed centres always remind each person of their rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u48	Mr Secretary of State, I did not understand half of your answer. I hope that the people who draw up the report have been able to do so. I'll read it there. I asked you about the group of people who were thrown out of the administrative centre. That has happened effectively, and it is not right. There were also a number of minors underneath. These people apparently had to leave for Brussels on their own. I hope that is not the normal course of action. I understand there has also been a problem with the Voogdij department. It is true that that is not your jurisdiction, but the fact that those people were put at the door is your authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u49	That did not happen on 18 October, because the centre was not open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u50	No, but it's happened in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u51	It happened once to a small group. That problem was solved. It was an operational error, which was immediately remediated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u52	We must avoid that happening in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u53	(...) Those people have been re-arrested. They've worked hard and fast on it. I received a telephone call very early in the morning about that situation and we immediately took action with the services and that was corrected. That was also discussed with those involved. It was a small human mistake. I'm sure you can understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u54	Mr Secretary of State, earlier reports have also been published on the speed with which the administrative centre was set up. They weren't ready. The trade unions have also protested.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u55	That is something else, Mr De Vriendt. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u56	The staff themselves have sent out the signal that they could not do what should normally be done there. That incident will have recovered. Those who had followed the messages of the last few months could actually predict that. I understand, Mr Secretary of State, that is not and cannot be done, especially when it comes to minors, which is actually the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u57	Mr President, Secretary of State, the information rounds of the DVZ and Fedasil concerning transmigrants in the Maximilian Park and/or the surroundings of Brussels North have not been taking place for several months. When did these stop? How are migrants still informed about their right to apply for asylum? Which services are involved in this? Are there any plans to restart the information rounds? If so, how will this be done in practice? I would like to get some more information about the frequency, the number of staff and services deployed, as well as the locations. It goes without saying that information on the right to asylum is crucial to prevent immigrants from wandering around in Brussels or elsewhere without a statute. Some of them do indeed have or might be entitled to asylum. Correct, neutral and objective information is therefore crucial. Hence this question as a result of the notice that such information rounds apparently have not been taking place for several months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u58	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, the information rounds of the DVZ and Fedasil, which took place in and around the Maximilian Park and the North Station since May 2017, were stopped in June. On the one hand, the main reason for this is because transit migrants started to act more aggressively towards the employees of the DVZ and Fedasil. Even with the assistance of the police, the aggression and threats continued, so that the security of my officials could no longer be guaranteed. On the other hand, my administrations note that after one year of information rounds, these migrants have absolutely no interest in the information provided on asylum, Dublin and voluntary return. At the moment, every transit agent who is being intercepted in Belgium is given an oral explanation of the possibilities of applying for protection in the form of an asylum application. In addition, an information brochure is provided in a language which they can understand. In addition, we will also provide information on asylum in a large-scale online information campaign on false rumours about Belgium. Finally, Fedasil will also be available during winter care, so that any questions can be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, it is therefore effective that these information rounds were no longer organised for a number of months. Of course, that's not good. You say that the information rounds were stopped in June, but why did you tweet at the end of August: "For over a year we have been distributing information leaflets several times a week and doing information rounds. Even new leaflets made. Little to no result."? You tweeted that at the end of August, while the information rounds ended in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u60	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u61	Well, at the end of August, you tweeted that you have been conducting information rounds with leaflets for more than a year, several times a week, but you just said that the information rounds were stopped in June.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u62	I have to admit that I was not aware that these information rounds were already closed at the end of June. I thought there were at least a few of them a month, but apparently there aren't. I have to check again whether these were completely discontinued or substantially reduced by the end of June. Anyway, there aren't any more at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u63	08.07 Wouter De Vriendt (Ecolo-Green) Are these information rounds being restarted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u64	No, because it's far too unsafe. My people are being seriously attacked. The people of the DVZ and Fedasil employees, even those with a Fedasilhes, are almost physically attacked. Human smugglers rattle them. I've added civilian railroad police, a little further, to keep an eye on everything, but that didn't help either. No one wanted to do that anymore. The employees did their information rounds during the day, but when they took the train to go home at night, they were recognized and they got problems again. Then I thought: I'm sorry, but I can't do that anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u65	Then we have a huge problem. When the local police pick up migrants, they have neither the time nor the expertise to explain to transmigrants about asylum. A while ago, local mayors in the press said that they can't handle this, since the local police have been over-questioned and they don't have the right expertise to explain asylum procedures. The question is whether it is the right context to do so at that time. In fact, for a number of weeks, so limited in time, it would be necessary to accommodate non-statutory migrants in a safe environment, without police, but with officials explaining the asylum procedure. Thus, those involved have a number of weeks to rest in a neutral, safe environment. If they do not apply for asylum after proper information has been provided, there is no alternative but to return them, preferably voluntarily, otherwise forced. At the moment, however, information on the right to asylum is failing. The information rounds existed, but it is no longer being started. They existed because they were needed. That's gonna go away, too. The NGOs, which are active in Brussels, manage to convince a number of transmigrants to apply for asylum. Apparently, their approach is different and they are successful. This is a key element in tackling transmigrants. There is a problem with the provision of information. I have made a realistic proposal, which can also be successful at the same time. So look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u66	Mr De Vriendt, I am sorry to say this, but you are improbably naive. How many asylum applications have already been made through the NGOs? Check the numbers for cgvs.be. Check them out. Look for the nationalities. I don't know what you're making of yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u67	It doesn't say in those statistics that they're going through NGOs, does it? However, you ask me to look at them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u68	Even that doesn't matter. What if they all go through the NGOs? Then there aren't any yet. For me, 100 % can be done via the NGOs. Still, it's zero. Saying that the information rounds were effective is not true. You have been telling us the same thing for a year and a half, namely that the leaflet is not good and needs to be changed. I changed the flyer. I've got UNHCR, IOM and the whole fucking bullshit involved. There's a new folder now. I take it the flyer's good now. After all, it has been validated by all the organizations you quote here very often. So we've got the flyer. We're publishing the brochure. More contact languages should now be used. You can do that in all the languages of the world, for all I care. We need to give the leaflet more too. We'll give you the flyer. They get the leaflet in the centers; the police have and give the leaflets; we give the leaflets; social assistants give the leaflets; the NGOs give the leaflets. There should therefore be an effect in the statistics, namely that there are asylum applications from Eritreans, Sudaneses and so on. Those are the nationalities. However, check the top 10 of the nationalities on transit migration interceptions and put them next to the asylum applications. Just put them on the sidelines. It's not working. You suggest that we should let them relax for a few weeks in an open setting. The migration hub has created NGOs with the support of the city of Brussels. That was to give them that peace. How many asylum applications have emerged from the migration hub? That's zero. I don't know where you're getting your information from. However, you should not believe everything the NGOs have suggested to you. I know you don't believe me. However, you must be equally critical of other people's information. In itself, you are a critical person, which is very good. In that case, however, you must be critical to everyone. So just look at the statistics. Just look at them. In fact, those concerned should, where appropriate, be included in the asylum statistics. They just don't appear in it. There are simply no asylum applications from those countries. Those people don't want to apply for asylum. After all, we have no time to do bone scans. We agree on that. We can discuss this much; in any case, we do not. In recent weeks, we have been dealing with an enormous number of minors. They are assigned to the Voogdij Department, which decides on them and places them, for example, in the open center of Steenokkerzeel or in the observation and orientation center of Lower-over-Heembeek, to let those young people relax, to check if they have any traumas of what they have been through and to check their origins. That work is done by professionals. You should visit those centers. Great work is being done. However, 95% of those youngsters, especially boys, are dropped off there, they take a shower and eat something and then go back. So if you are suggesting that there should be an open setting for those young people to relax, then I know what will happen: they will eat and sleep there and wait for a smuggler to tell them that they can go out the next night, in the hope that they will succeed. Then they're gone. I would therefore ask you to be a little realistic. I have been looking at this problem for two years; I am doing nothing else. I would also like Members to go on the spot and talk to police forces and to the people working on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u69	I did.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u70	These young people do not want asylum in Belgium, because the Dublin Regulation is being applied. As a Member of Parliament, you may propose to suspend that regulation, but I will not do so, so that will not happen under my State Secretariat. These kids don't want asylum. Even a high-pregnant 19-year-old girl tapped it, under the argument that her husband is already in the UK. I do not blame anyone individually, I do not express a moral judgment, I merely inform you that this is the situation on the ground. Your proposal won't work. The migration hub tried that, but it doesn't work. It's just gonna be a resting place, where they're gonna get their strength to move on, try again; that's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, first of all, we have effective reports from NGOs that they have been able to persuade people to apply for asylum with their approach. That's a word rebuttal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u72	(...) [[microphone not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u73	It is a word rebuttal, because I assume that the Foreign Office does not record whether or not the reason for an asylum application was made by an NGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u74	(...) [[microphone not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u75	I mean, aren't asylum applications still being made these days?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u76	By Eritreans?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u77	No, I mean that asylum applications are still in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u78	Yes, (...) [[microphone not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u79	You do not know whether these asylum applications result from the functioning of the NGOs. The NGOs say it is, you say it isn't. I think we have a common interest in getting as many asylum applications as possible from transmigrants. In order to achieve this, it will certainly not help that the information rounds are no longer launched and that nothing is being done about the fact that the local police are over-questioned and unable to provide that information. Something must therefore be done. We have made a proposal. We await your proposals. How are you going to provide more information to the transmigrants? We have made a proposal. You call that naive. Several weeks in a safe environment, indeed open, without police, giving information. At the same time, however, we say the following. We give a chance, and we do it right, as it should be. If we do not seize this opportunity, return is indeed the only possible option, but we have given it a chance. Why don't you take that step to do that? What's stopping you? We can try anyway, because now it just goes wrong. It's not going well. We're making a proposal. Where are your proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u80	I can't do it legally. I'm not gonna do it because I have enough knowledge of the terrain and the file. With what you're saying, you're showing your lack of knowledge. Of course, there are still asylum applications. It will be, unfortunately, again, but not of the nationalities of transit migration and transit migrants who are in the Maximilian Park. You shouldn't throw everything in a pile.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, a great deal has been said and written in the last 24 hours about the withdrawal of the Belgian nationality of terrorist leader Fouad Belkacem. After a two-year procedure, a judge decided to deprive him of Belgian nationality because, in summary, he did not act as a good Belgian should, which is still an understatement. The hours after that there have been a lot of statements that also made me frown the eyebrows. For example, Fouad Belkacem's lawyer was good for saying that he doesn't feel Moroccan at all and that he would only retain Moroccan nationality. That's the kind of statement that breaks my clog. He certainly didn't feel like a Belgian. We had to wait until late at night for the ruling of the day. Yesterday I heard on TV the President of the League of Human Rights, who thought it was very discriminatory and disproportionate. Please consider the words discriminatory and disproportionate. So she is actually saying that a person who has dual nationality is now being punished more severely than a terrorist who would only have Belgian nationality. Her motto would be just to do nothing. She has also announced that she will do everything in her power not to have Fouad Belkacem deported to Morocco. I can't wait to see what happens next. I think that's a huge jaw blow for anyone who's ever been confronted with a terrorist act. It seems to me that we are all aware of the facts of a few years ago. In fact, at the time, I was very keen to set up the League for Human Rights. It still doesn't exist. For certain people there seem to be only rights and no duties. Remember also that not so long ago the news came that there are still Syrian fighters who receive Belgian benefits. At that moment the whole country is in turmoil, because it cannot, it is out of the question, but if anyone wants to do something about it, then it will get the wind in front of it. Yesterday, you made very valid statements. I know you a little bit. I'm sure you'll stick to your point. Our bill is still on the table. It's been there a long time. However, we have not yet found a majority in favour of it. We believe that a conviction for acts of terrorism should be followed by automatic withdrawal of dual nationality. It's not about a conviction for a small petty theft. We don't want to go that far. A terrorist act, in which we are opposed to the country in which we live and whose rights are granted, is, however, out of the question for us. Can you give us an update on the Fouad Belkacem file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u82	Mr Metsu, I fully agree with what you are saying: it would be a good idea to have a League for Human Rights instead of the League for Human Rights Honoraries. On 23 October 2018, the Antwerp appeal court annulled the Belgian nationality of Fouad Belkacem. However, this still needs to be transferred to the National Register. As long as this has not happened and the person concerned is therefore de facto Belgian, the DVZ is not competent about the person concerned, but hopefully that will be done as soon as possible. The judgment of the Court of Appeal is very clear: such a person does not belong in our society, for he is a serious danger to the public order and security of the State and its inhabitants. Fouad Belkacem was convicted as leader of a terrorist group and is currently serving his sentence. After this, we will make every effort to expel him from the country, as he no longer has a right of residence. We therefore assume that the court's ruling, together with its Belgian nationality, also means that he has lost his right of residence. I read the judgment yesterday, but the appeal court does not in itself express its opinion on it. However, it speaks explicitly of a serious danger to the public order and security of the State and its inhabitants, which is a very strong argument for returning to the country of origin. Of course, that decision will be challenged with all possible means and with all possible pro bono and other lawyers, but the judgment of the Court of Appeal is very clear in that sense and provides sufficient elements for a strong case to defend our attempt at expulsion. However, we will have to discuss further with the Moroccan authorities. As you know, a person who is illegally resident on the territory can be expelled if he is given a laissez-passer from the country of origin. In such cases, it is, of course, obvious that the countries of origin are not ready to take on a major leader of terrorists. So that will certainly be discussed further with my Moroccan colleagues, but I will try to convince them with great persuasion to accept this sujet anyway. So it is certainly a priority dossier, but for the sake of clarity, the man is still stuck in a Belgian prison for at least a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic984x.u83	Let me conclude by hoping that you will be right for the umpteenth time.
