ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u1	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, the protection of victims of sexual violence is a subject on which there is a fairly broad consensus. That is why I welcome the creation, at the end of 2017, of three health centres specializing in the treatment of sexual violence in Ghent, Liège and Brussels, even though they are only pilot projects at this stage. In the opinion of the experts, these centres allow victims to listen more attentively and not feel judged. They are taken over immediately by the police, who travel to register complaints and to give appropriate judicial action. However, the viability of these centres depends on budgetary allocations commensurate with their respective missions. So, Madam Secretary of State, what budget will be allocated to the three new specialized care centres? Will these funds be allocated according to the number of victims to be accommodated by these centres? This seems to me to be the most objective criterion. This distribution could take into account studies carried out by each federated entity. For example, a recent study carried out by the University of Ghent, at the request of your Brussels counterpart, Mrs Bianca Debaets, revealed that in Brussels 88% of women have already been subjected to sexual intimidation and that 30% of respondents still claim to be suffering from such behaviour, forcing them to adapt their habits. Are such studies also planned in Flanders and Wallonia? If not, will you encourage them? What is your budget prospect if the activities of these centres are successful? How will you ensure their sustainability? It is indeed likely that there will be more situations to be taken into account in the coming years and that there will therefore be an extension of the missions of these centres, in particular since the release of the expected words of the victims, in particular following the Weinstein case and various movements which have called on women to release their words rightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u2	Madam President, Mr Maingain, thank you for this question. A budget of EUR 2.4 million has been set aside for the opening, the one-year test phase, the overall coordination of pilot projects and the scientific evaluation of the three centres. However, we note that, unfortunately, the centres already receive more victims than we expected. After an interim evaluation, the objective will be to determine whether this budget should be further increased. In all cases, a core budget should help to make staff available 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, but the amount would depend on the number of victims accommodated. It is not just the costs associated with the latter, as there should also be sufficient staff to ensure that all victims are properly accommodated. However, the preliminary calculation of the number of victims will not be based on the relevant studies, mainly because they do not concern the country as a whole and do not necessarily apply the same methodology. Studies deconstruct the prevalence of several acts of violence without focusing on rape and touching. In addition, a large part of the victims do not report the facts. That said, of course, we hope that the centres will help to encourage an increase in declarations. In fact, the calculation of the number of victims is based on that of the declarations recorded so far in the concentrated police areas as well as on that of the victims admitted by hospitals. This figure is then extrapolated, as we see an increase in the number of victims received. If this trend continues, an interim assessment, as already indicated, is planned to allow for a budgetary change to match resources to actual needs. Of course, studies are needed in order to analyse the problem and to know the dark number of this type of violence. That is why, last year, I commissioned a large four-year study, which will measure the prevalence of sexual violence among the Belgian population. This will be the first time that an in-depth study focuses on a single category of violence for the whole of our society. In doing so, we will also take into account sexual violence against men and several vulnerable groups such as LGBTI, persons with disabilities, prostitutes, etc. Between their opening in November and 21 March of this year, some 354 victims have already appeared at the centre. This figure demonstrates the need for this project. I intend to expand this network, with at least one centre per province. I still have to gather the necessary budget, which I intend to do through several channels. I would already like to open three new centres by the beginning of 2019. Preparation will begin this year. In view of the special nature of the centres, namely the medical, medical, police and psychological reception, there is no plan to extend their competence to cases of sexual harassment. For the time being, they are focusing on the victims of rape and touching. This has been the subject of in-depth discussion in various working groups. We also observed similar projects abroad. In fact, victims of sexual harassment do not need medical and medical examinations in hospital. They need another type of reception, which is in principle the responsibility of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answer. I always have the honesty to recognize the positive initiatives from wherever they come from: the establishment of the centres, their development and their budgetary support. I heard that a four-year study was being launched to better determine the nature of the situation experienced by women. You are right to say that other categories of people are involved, but let us have the honesty to say that women are particularly victims of sexual violence. I can only encourage you to continue these initiatives. We will certainly have the opportunity to assess, within a few months, how you will continue the projects, but I can only welcome the initiative taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u4	In the absence of Mrs Kattrin Jadin, her question No 24016 and her attached question No 24181 were deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, the new transgender law entered into force in January 2018. However, in a few judicial districts this seems to cause problems. In Liège, Hainaut and Luxembourg, people would be systematically questioned by the police after their first notification. This systematic subpoena and the nature of the questions work in the interests of stigmatisation, psychiatrisation and medicalisation of transgender persons. In this way, the new transgender law has a counterproductive effect. Madam Secretary of State, have you taken note of these practices? Are they knocking? How many cases are we talking about? Will measures be taken, possibly in consultation with Minister Geens, to curb these practices? What are these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u6	I am indeed aware that in a number of judicial districts in Wallonia there are difficulties in the way in which the King's Attorney's Office checks whether or not an application for gender registration is contrary to public policy. I've contacted Secretary Nothing to raise the issue. He told me that he will discuss this issue with the College of Attorney General. However, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men has not yet received any reports of this. In order to determine exactly what problems arise before taking appropriate measures and to consider what those measures should involve, I will have to consult with Minister None before I can give an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u7	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answer. I thought you'd take an initiative. I'll ask about a state of affairs in four weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u8	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, doctors who are required to treat victims or patients at risk of genital mutilation or domestic violence would now have a code of reporting and practical plans that they can follow in case of suspicion. It would be practical to recognise the signals and risks of genital mutilation and/or domestic violence, to consult with colleagues, to seek advice from specialists and to go, as a last resort, in case of imminent danger to the patient, until the case is brought to justice. Madam Secretary of State, has this code been developed in consultation with the College of Physicians? If so, has the consultation been successful? What are the conclusions? Does the reporting code not call into question the professional secrecy to which doctors are subjected? What safeguards are provided for in this framework so as not to undermine the relationship of trust between physicians and patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, the figures we received in March are alarmingly high. The number of girls at risk would be 8,000 and the number of women and girls mutilated would be 17,000. In ten years' time, the figures have tripled. It is therefore high time we worked on a plan and a policy measure. One of the elements herein is the medical reporting code, which you have drawn up together with the Order of Doctors. It is true that doctors have a difficult balance between professional secrecy and speaking or reporting. However, in the event of an emergency and such infringements, I believe that professional secrecy may indeed be broken. It is therefore a good thing that this code is in place, with the ultimate aim of breaking the obligation of professional secrecy. You also support the bill that I launched on this issue. The reporting code is therefore a major step in the right direction. In order for them to work effectively, it is of course necessary to extend the scope of professional secrecy. Which partners do you still have in the development of the reporting code? What impact do you expect from the reporting code? Today, the number of reports is alarmingly low, almost non-existent. We hope, of course, that the reporting code will have a major impact. In an answer to a previous question, you indicated that you would work with Secretary of State Francken to inform newcomers about our prosecution policy in this area. The Men Speak Out project has much better results in the Netherlands than in Belgium, resulting in a reduction in the prevalence. Are there any discussions about the Men Speak Out project? How are the talks going? Is there any concrete timeline to carry out these information rounds?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u10	I would like to thank Members for their questions about genital mutilation and the reporting code. I have followed closely the study on the prevalence of female genital mutilation in Belgium and have learned with great interest the results. The study is based on expertise and quality work. Three calculation assumptions were used to clarify the probability, depending on the age of arrival in Belgium, of an earlier excision. The assumption that girls and women from countries where female genital mutilation is practised did not undergo excision if they arrived before the age of 5 and suffered it if they arrived after the age of 5 was considered the most reliable. On this basis, it was assessed that, as at 31 December 2016, there were 17,273 girls and women who had undergone excision and 8,144 who were at real risk of excision in the absence of prevention. In order to achieve these results, two phases were completed. During the first phase, the number of women living in Belgium from one of the countries concerned and the number of daughters born in Belgium of these mothers were assessed as accurately as possible. To make the assessment, several sources were used, namely the National Register, Fedasil, Doctors of the World, the birth rates of Child & Family and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. During the second phase, the established prevalence in the country of origin where these practices take place was extrapolated to the women and girls living in Belgium. The prevalence figures from the most recent studies were grouped and extrapolated to the target group from the first phase. That prevalence study is more accurate than its predecessors. The data for Indonesia were included in the study as well as the figures for undocumented women. They weren't available before. The age at arrival was taken into account, making it possible to make better estimates. Those data were not yet available at the time of the 2010 and 2014 studies. The number of girls receiving international protection due to the risk of genital mutilation, which is significant in Belgium compared with other countries, was also taken into account. The results are an indirect estimate of the prevalence of genital mutilation in Belgium. However, they also provide an objective basis for assessing the needs for the prevention and guidance of the target group, especially in terms of training of professionals and raising awareness of the communities concerned. The information requested on convictions falls within the competence of my colleague Mr Koen Geens, Minister of Justice. I invite you to contact him for more information on the number of convictions for female genital mutilation in recent years. On 2 March, together with the Order of Doctors, I presented two reporting codes in the Jan Palphine Hospital, one for partner violence and one for female genital mutilation. At the moment, together with the Order of Doctors, I am finishing a code of conduct for sexual violence. As soon as it is finished, I will distribute the three reporting codes in cooperation with the Order of Doctors as widely as possible through different communication channels among doctors and hospitals. In a second phase we will distribute the reporting codes among professionals, such as psychologists, dentists, Family Justice Centers and OCMWs. In addition, the notification codes are also included in the medical training courses. The partner violence code was initially prepared by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. This gave the mandate to develop a draft reporting code for professionals with a trust function who are confronted with cases of partner violence. The mission was carried out in cooperation with various orders and associations of the professional groups concerned, including the Fédération de Médecins Généralites du Centre et de Binche, the Federation of Flemish Dentists, the Fédération Belge des Psychologues and representatives of various departments, including Wellness, Public Health and Justice. In addition, through the federations, a survey was sent to the various occupational groups: family doctors, gynaecologists, physiotherapists, wijkgezondheidscentra and medical homes, dentists, social workers, emergency doctors, nurses, psychologists. Local think tanks have been organized with these different professional groups. They all mentioned in the first place the need to set up an alert code based on a fact sheet. Based on these consultations and using foreign examples, we have developed a reporting code with a clear overview of the steps to be taken. In order to ensure that the design of the reporting code complied with the principles of professional secrecy, the design was legally reviewed by the University of Ghent. Then, together with the Order of Doctors, I started working on the design and came to the final version of the code of reporting partner violence. Mrs Van Hoof, you have questioned me several times in committee and I have included the legislative proposals in the implementation of the policy. I also served with the Order of Doctors. However, it is difficult to strike a good balance between professional secrecy and reporting, especially in the case of female mutilation. I personally entered into the conversation with them. I realise that you would like to go further, but frankly what we have already achieved is historic if we look at where we come from. There's a code already. If one now finds the phenomenon, one has to report it to different authorities. As I said, I work for the code of reporting on female genital mutilation with the Order of Doctors. He is based on the decision tree on genital mutilation that was realized by the network, among others, the Joint Strategy for the fight against female genital mutilation, the Flemish Forum Children's Abuse, GAMS Belgium, vzw Intact and the International Centre for Reproductive Health. The reporting code is, of course, in accordance with the principles of professional secrecy contained in Article 61 of the Code of Practice and Article 458a of our Criminal Code. Three phases were developed for both reporting codes. Each phase provides a step-by-step overview of the decisions to be taken. At each stage, it is always stressed that every effort must be made to maintain the relationship of trust with the victim. The aid provider therefore remains willing to provide the necessary assistance at all times. The notification codes follow a kind of decision tree, which also clearly explains how the healthcare provider can act in a careful manner in case of emergency situations. A number of steps are also listed in case of doubt. Above all, it must be a tool, which allows more caregivers to take advantage of the opportunities to act and help victims and no longer to remain silent as a precautionary measure. I therefore hope that the doctors will use the tool frequently and learn what steps they can take in case of distressing situations. More victims will then be referred to specialized agencies and more reports will be made to the public prosecutors. This is how we try to avoid possible victims, which is ultimately the intention. An extension of the right to speak and a registration of the number of cases then fits nicely with the code of genital mutilation and the purpose that we want to achieve with this. I will therefore support that proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u11	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. If I understand you correctly, there has indeed been a consultation and agreement by the Order of Physicians on this code of reporting, which is a very good thing. But if I can hear you as well, there may not be agreement and willingness on the part of doctors to amend the law on professional secrecy. There, you put a limit on the work that can be done. I am obviously referring to the proposal by my colleague Mrs Van Hoof, who is on our bench today and on which we have to work and discuss. Thank you for this information. You confirm by acquiescing. This will help us in our further work on this very important issue – should we remind ourselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your detailed answer. I have heard that you support the extension of the right to speak, and that is quite right. The introduction of such a reporting code is historic for Belgium. Our country is quite conservative in terms of professional secrecy and the right to speak. In twenty-two European countries there is a duty to speak in the event of genital mutilation, while in four countries there is a right to speak. Even though Mr Grovonius is opposed to extending the right to speak, we are lagging behind internationally. Furthermore, Article 28 of the Istanbul Convention, which we all welcome, stipulates that Member States must break the obligation of professional secrecy for everything resulting from violence in the areas of culture, honour, religion and customs. The Convention even calls for an obligation to speak. In Belgium, the doctors want to protect themselves from the obligation to speak, but my question is about an extension of the right to speak, which means that a notification can but must not be made. An extension of the right to speak on genital mutilation in adult women is therefore not so far-reaching, as that right already applies to minors today. The reporting code is a good thing. I also welcome the fact that this will be included in the training of doctors. I hope it doesn't become an elective. After all, ethical debates are often included in the electives, whereas it should actually be a compulsory subject. A similar struggle I also wage in connection with all the concern about the end of life. The reporting code on genital mutilation should also become a mandatory box. You mention the Family Justice Centers. I think that's a very good place. After all, the doctors hesitate to exercise their right to speak, because they do not want to go straight to court. The Family Justice Centers are a perfect place for chain approach. I hope that genital mutilation will be mentioned a little more explicitly, because I do not think they are immediately thinking of reporting the phenomenon to the Family Justice Centers, which is already being done for partner violence. I therefore propose to clarify explicitly that genital mutilation can be reported to the Family Justice Centers. You didn't answer my question of creating support for men. However, this has proved crucial in the Netherlands. I have said this a few times and I keep repeating it. Women carry out the genital mutilation or have it carried out, because they think their husbands expect it, but the couples don't talk about it because of a big taboo. This is not comparable to anything in our culture, but it is a reality, so perhaps you can look at it more closely. Another great concern of mine is that in Flanders there are now about eleven thousand maimed or potentially mutilated girls, the highest number of all regions, while in Flanders aid is at the lowest level. The aid is not only your competence, but also a regional competence. Through GAMS I know that there is only one half-time staff equivalent available for guidance in this respect. Once there is a reporting code, the number of aid questions will also increase. In a further step, therefore, I think it would be good to extend GAMS' consultancy assignment in Flanders. For example, C'est Ma Vie at the Saint-Pieter Hospital in Brussels receives much more cases than the office in Ghent, because of its fame. There is no lead; it is unknown in women and girls. A very large assignment is therefore still open for the introduction to Ghent and for the development of the consultants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic869x.u13	Question No 24381 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée is transformed into a written question.
