ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u2	At the request of the Government, I propose that the draft law amending the Law of 23 July 1926 concerning SNCB and the staff of the Belgian Railways and the Code of Civil Procedure concerning the social elections for certain social dialogue bodies of the Belgian Railways, Nos 2939/1 to 4, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. At the request of the Government, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill amending the Act of 23 July 1926 on the SNCB and the staff of the Belgian Railways and the Judicial Code on social elections for certain social dialogue bodies of the Belgian Railways, Nos. 2939/1 to 4. I made contact with the group leaders, who gave me their consent. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true that we are on 8 March and that there is an obligation to question women's rights. And Belgium, like other European countries, has many laws, many mechanisms that aim to maintain and preserve equality between men and women, to avoid wage gaps, anti-discrimination laws. We have all these mechanisms in place and the European Gender Index shows that in other countries, as in Belgium, there is an improvement in the number of jobs for women, the improvement of health and access to education. These are positive elements. In spite of all this, Prime Minister, it must be noted that, in fact, there are still many concerns about reality. Equal pay, in fact, we're not. We're not there for many reasons, despite the laws we have. Violence against women is still too important and women still have too much difficulty in defending themselves in this area. And then there's time sharing. And here, Prime Minister, I would really like to draw your attention because this is the area where countries, and in particular Belgium, are regressing. In the distribution of time, there is working time, family time, social and cultural time. And we see that women have a domestic time, a time for family tasks that is constantly increasing, while men, in the time that is freed from work, increase their leisure time, their favorite occupation time. In our reflections on working time and division of labour, it is important that we improve equal pay. This is why women need time to look after their children and therefore give up working time and benefits. This subject needs to be taken up in a much more effective way. Finally, together with other colleagues, I have tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at establishing the foundations for women's rights. The aim is not to create new laws, but to understand why they are not being implemented in our country. What are the practical details? It is a collective work that must be carried out by politicians, by economic actors - employers, workers -, by the cultural milieu, by the social milieu. I would really like us to take advantage of this date to embark on such a mechanism, with the tools of Parliament, with the powers of the federal government, in order to achieve equality of rights between men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u4	Prime Minister, on March 8, for some, it is an opportunity to offer a chocolate or a rose to women. Obviously, they didn't understand the cause. March 8 is International Women's Rights Day. It is an opportunity to take stock of the battles that have been won, the fights to be pursued and the fights to be waged on equal terms, on better reconciliation between private and professional life, on emancipation and the right to dispose of one's body, but also on the fight against violence. I must say that your assessment seems very meagre, apart from an important measure and which we welcome: the establishment of multidisciplinary centres for the management of sexual violence, an essential project that will have to be developed and sustained. However, you will allow me to have fears, because the savings you are putting on our justice and health care today have disastrous consequences in this context. As the press reported this week, a young woman, a victim of rape, could not be completely taken over by a hospital because, owing to lack of financial resources, forensic doctors no longer move at night and, due to lack of financial and therefore human resources, small hospital facilities cannot cope with this complex type of care. Prime Minister, your Ministers of Employment and Pensions are constantly taking measures that penalize women in terms of their careers and pensions. Your Ministers of Justice and the Interior are waiting in the Committee of Opinions on Social Emancipation to take stock of their actions in the fight against violence. Your Ministers of Justice and Health, with ill-placed savings, are now undermining the care of victims of sexual violence. Prime Minister, what is your government doing about women's rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the conviction that the commitment to women's rights should not take place one day a year, but should be a permanent and transversal ambition. That is why, from the time of the formation of the government, we have put in place a federal plan for the implementation of gender mainstreaming, in order to mobilize all departments to constantly raise and refine this cross-cutting capacity and to take this gender dimension into account in all policies. Secondly, since December 2015, a comprehensive national plan involving all governments and not only the federal government - other actors have been asked - has been implemented in the context of violence against women. I am pleased that, in recent months at the international level, serious facts have perhaps led to such important developments in order to change a number of convictions and attitudes on this extremely important subject. Mrs Gerkens, I agree with you that there is already a legislative arsenal. The question is how to make it work. How to be operational? You have rightly mentioned a few figures, such as, for example, the progress made in the employment rate of women. It goes in the right direction, but it's still too slow. We need to do better, stronger and faster. You talked about the wage gap that remains today, despite a slight decline. However, as a matter of principle, this wage gap is not acceptable. I am rather in favour of your constructive proposal to put in place, at the start of Parliament, a basis for women's rights. Mrs Ben Hamou, I do not intend to move towards a debate on social, fiscal and pension issues. The DNA of this government is to fight for greater prosperity and purchasing power for women, men and families. As far as pensions are concerned, I honour the fact that this government has taken decisions to substantially revalue the lowest pensions which, to a large extent, concern women. We have also put in place social bonuses for people who do not account for a full career and are therefore potentially affected by pensions. These pensions have been upgraded further through the "well-being" envelope. I have no doubt that the committees will give us the opportunity to go into more detail on all the measures taken. Mrs Gerkens, in a positive and constructive way, you have a partner to try to move forward in a constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u6	Prime Minister, thank you for joining this idea. Let us try to see concretely, on the ground, with all the actors, how to achieve these equality objectives at all levels. I was waiting for Mrs Demir's return to put this item on the committee agenda. She'll be back next week. We can start. This will make it possible to make concrete progress, not just at the level of objectives and speeches.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u7	Prime Minister, thank you. On 8 March, at the time of the stocktaking of commitments, we do not want words or announcement effects, but strong actions. We have tabled texts: for pay equity and the creation of a "equality label" within companies; for a better balance of birth and parental leave; to combat violence against women. Moreover, what about the application to protect women victims of domestic violence? You said you were supporting her. Again this week, two women died under the blows of their companion. Lives are at stake, and even then you don't act. So on March 8th, we don't offer chocolate and we don't make false promises!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u8	Prime Minister, what about the draft law on entry into the home? Not so good, apparently, when I see the Twitter fight between N-VA and Open Vld. I also notice that some French-speaking municipalities declare themselves a welcoming area. In these municipalities, illegal immigrants should not be arrested or arrested. I also note that the French Community, inspired by Ecolo and supported by CdH, DéFI and PS, wants to adopt a resolution which states that no illegal immigrants can be arrested in cultural temples, theatres or the like. I believe, quite frankly, that many Flemings do not agree with that. We do not know at all, Prime Minister, how many illegal immigrants are on our territory. What we do know is that being illegally on the territory is a crime. For my group, it is quite clear that these people must be arrested and repatriated. In your bill, you make two mistakes in your thinking. You engage an investigating judge while there is no judicial investigation and you organise a residence entry that is a search in the facts. I'll suggest another slope. You are sitting here with an administrative procedure and an administrative file prepared by the DVZ. Why don't you just turn to the police judge and ask him for permission to enter the house to arrest them illegally? For the rest of the story, follow the usual rules. If there is a crime, for example, trafficking in human beings, the prosecutor will start an investigation and, if necessary, take it into account by an investigating judge, who will then be able to order a search of the premises in the context of that investigation. That is much easier, Prime Minister. What I propose to you is fully in line with the ECHR. It is also proportional and no one's right to privacy is violated. My question is, therefore, what is the situation with regard to your draft law? Are you willing to think about this alternative slope?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am always prepared to think, as you know. Firstly, a few weeks ago, I made it clear in Parliament that I intended to listen to the various actors and the opinions in order to be able to submit a proposal to the government and then to Parliament as soon as possible. Over the last few days and weeks, I've had a lot of discreet, cold-blooded, serene conversations with a few actors. I will have further discussions in the next few days, and when I see that there is a possibility of a compromise, I will inform the government and, above all, Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, of course my group is always prepared to discuss it. The government likes to profile itself as a security government with a strict asylum policy, but it is actually a Mother Teresa government. That's basically what it's all about. I would just like to read out the figures that were announced this week: the number of repatriations decreased by 3% in 2017 and the number of voluntary returners by 14%. The number of repatriations was 3 001 under Secretary of State Francken, while in 2003 it was 7 951 under Minister Dewael, almost twice as much and without all that trump on Twitter, just in a different way. Retrieving figures from Secretary of State Francken is a very difficult task. They hardly ever get an answer to that. He's too busy with Twitter, probably. However, if figures are published, then they are bad. I give the figures of an action in West Flanders in 2016: there were 2 138 illegals arrested there at a certain time, 58 of whom were repatriated. That's 1.2 percent. Instead of profiling the government as a government of law-and-order, as sheriffs with cameras and databases, look into reality, because it's a Mother Teresa government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u11	Mr President, Minister, it became clear on Tuesday that Zalando would not go to Belgium but to the Netherlands, despite the fact that all the permits had already been obtained. Zalando himself hasn't explained the reasons why it doesn't come here. In the media, however, we have already been able to read all kinds of analyses, including those of your colleagues, who clearly claim that the recently relaxed rules for consultation to introduce night work have been inflamed. That is a very strange explanation, because I do not know any company where the introduction of night work has been made impossible by social consultation. On the contrary, Nike, Lego and Colruyt are all examples of companies where they succeeded perfectly. For flexible working between 6:00 a.m. and midnight, you don't even need that procedure. Workers expect financial compensation if they have to work flexibly and if they have to work at night. For those who analyse it, it might be useful to read a European study on the subject. This shows that such a company takes more than twenty location factors into account. It is then seen that other factors are at our disadvantage, such as demand and market proximity. Flanders has 6.5 million inhabitants, the Netherlands twice as many. The Flemish market goes with the Dutch and the Walloon with the French. That's one element of that study. The study also points out that transport options and costs are a very important element. With the ever longer traffic jams, that is a great disadvantage for us. It is also learned that the proximity of other centres to have combinations is important. It is also about the availability of land and such and, of course, the availability of workers. At certain peak moments, more than two thousand temporary workers are needed. They must be available in the immediate vicinity. In addition, of course, it is also a question of wage costs. So it is not about the procedures for introducing night work. What we can do is pay costs. That is why we have already made proposals in the spring of last year, in view of our competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis the Netherlands, to introduce very targeted reductions in charges for e-commerce. In this way, we are creating room to pay people correctly, on the one hand, and to remain competitive, on the other. There is, of course, a need for social dialogue. We do not just throw social peace overboard, and we certainly do not want to go to situations where people have to work for EUR 5 per hour at night in humane conditions. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u12	Come to your question, Mr Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u13	I come to my questions, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, have you contacted Zalando in the meantime? Has the company explained why it is not coming to Belgium? Can you explain that to us? Then, and more importantly, will you take additional initiatives to make our country more attractive to e-commerce, for example through targeted tax cuts? Has the government discussed this yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u14	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, like you, I read on Tuesday in the press that Zalando would have decided not to come to Belgium but to go to the Netherlands. In fact, three reasons were given as to why it was decided not to invest in Belgium. I was surprised to hear that because at federal level there was no knowledge of this dossier, and it was subsequently found that negotiations had been going on for two years. If the federal government, together with the Prime Minister, is involved in such a file, as happened in the Audi case, the Volvo case or the Nike case, everything will be done. But if we are not informed, then of course we cannot explain ourselves. I regret that. After all, we are not only fighting for the preservation of every job, but also for the creation of work. If it is said that 1 500 jobs can be created, we want to make serious efforts at federal level, in this case together with our Walloon colleagues. That didn't happen now. We have contacted the Walloon Government and we have asked for text and explanations. We have also contacted Zalando, to ask about the decision-making and the reasons why the Netherlands, but not Belgium, were chosen. Well, Zalando was very surprised that in our media three elements of night work, social peace and labour costs were put forward as arguments not to choose Belgium but to choose the Netherlands. I regret that, because there was a whole discussion about this, when apparently no one has bothered to contact Zalando himself and ask for explanations. We understand that this would still be the subject of communication, but that it is certainly not for the three reasons cited. I am very sorry that we are opening the debate in this way. Fortunately, we have Ikea, Nike and others. Anyway, one newspaper launches something and... Mr President, I would like to say a few words about night work. The Summer Agreement worked out a good arrangement, whereby, if necessary, one can go as far as in the Netherlands, with a collective agreement or an employment regulation. Since this is about a company that is started with 1 500 people, it is possible to draw up an employment regulations and then recruit them. With regard to labour costs, and you are right, Mr Vercamer, during the discussion of the Summer Agreement, it was proposed that the burden on inland waterways, transport and e-commerce should also be reduced by 10%. We said at the time that we were going to devote everything to construction, and we decided for that sector to introduce an additional reduction in the burden. However, the budgetary possibilities did not allow for an additional reduction in charges for e-commerce as well. As soon as possible, we will put the issue of e-commerce back on the table and we will once again ensure that this sector has every opportunity to create jobs in Belgium. But please come up with the right arguments and good file knowledge, because that is absolutely necessary to make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u15	I fully agree with you, Minister, in that neither the procedures nor the introduction of night work are the problem, as some Members of your House may also claim. It is hopeful that there is a progressive understanding that it is indeed understood that a targeted reduction in charges would be useful for e-commerce. I hope that will be done very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u16	Normally Mrs Capoen's question was now addressed to Minister De Croo, but the Minister has indicated that he will be a little later. That is why we shall now deal first with the questions addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u17	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ten billion Libyan frozen funds evaporated! Today, we learn that more than ten billion euros from Libyan funds controlled by Gaddafi's relatives disappeared from accounts opened at Euroclear Bank Belgium between 2013 and 2017. This disappearance is as worrying as it is incomprehensible since these funds were frozen since 2011, following a decision by the United Nations, and Belgium has never allowed thawing, according to the SPF Finances. Who could have authorized this thaw, minister? Article 8 of the relevant European Regulation and Annex 4 are very clear: the only competent authority is Foreign Affairs. So we are potentially – I fear – facing a political-financial scandal that could undermine Belgian diplomacy with billions of euros belonging to a bloodthirsty regime that our state has fought against. Admit that this is a blemish in our campaign for a non-permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council! Minister, can you establish with certainty, today, what frozen assets are still at Euroclear Bank in Belgium? Do you confirm the disappearance of EUR 10 billion of Libyan funds frozen by the UN and the European Union? If so, who authorized thawing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u18	Mr Minister, this morning, when I saw the article from Le Vif/L'Express, I shined my eyes. EUR 10 billion blocked in an account at the request of the UN, an account under the responsibility of the Foreign Ministers and Finance Ministers, would have disappeared from that account. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm that story, first of all? Is it true that ten billion has disappeared from that account? Secondly, if that is correct, Minister, how will you explain this to your colleagues? Belgium hits a mud figure, unfortunately not for the first time. A few months ago, under your responsibility, Saudi Arabia was included in the Women's Rights Committee. For the second time, we're naked with the buttocks. Thirdly, if that money has disappeared, can you confirm the statement made by the specialists in the article that the European Commission or the UN Sanctions Committee can hold Belgium responsible for the disappearance of the EUR 10 billion? So do we have the chance that Belgium will have to return EUR 10 billion to that account? Finally, Mr Foreign Minister, can you explain to me how, after the so-called reinforced banking supervision was introduced, 10 billion has disappeared since autumn? How can it be that, among other things, the FPS Finance, with which the journalist had repeated contact, still cannot explain how that sum of money would have disappeared from the account under the radar of Belgian banking supervision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u19	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the whole matter appeared following the initiative of an investigating judge who sought to clarify the situation of bank accounts in a banking agency where funds were blocked in pursuance of a United Nations resolution. If I am properly informed, it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which, according to the European regulation, was the competent authority to ensure the correct implementation of the measures decided by the United Nations Security Council, and more specifically by its resolution 2009 of which I recall paragraph 17: "The Security Council calls on States to exercise vigilance and to give due consideration to the use of international financial mechanisms to promote transparency and prevent misappropriation of funds, given the difficulties still facing the Libyan authorities." This explains the measure relating to the freezing of the assets of a number of Libyan companies in the accounts in question. Like my colleagues, I am surprised to learn that Justice would have found only some of the amounts announced on the accounts which have been blocked for a long time and which could have been released only with the agreement of at least the competent authority, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister, can you tell us if your department has actually given an authorization? If so, for what purpose? Under what procedure of internal control and ministerial control, given the stakes of this case, in view of our obligations under international law? Thank you for the explanations you will give us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u20	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the situation is very special since, after receiving a mandate from the UN to freeze Libyan funds – it is a question of EUR 16.1 billion deposited with Euroclear Bank – we learn, via various media, that in the event of a seizure, an investigating judge would not have found all the amounts frozen, but only a part. Indeed, ten billion euros would have disappeared. Minister, since it would appear that there was no order from the FPS Finances, can you tell us how this amount could have disappeared? If you can't answer that question, can you tell us if an investigation has been conducted internally? At the international level, what sanction does the Belgian State risk being imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u21	Mr President, Minister, since August, with questions to your colleague, the Minister of Finance, I have been trying to find out what Libyan funds are coming up, frozen following a request from the United Nations and a European regulation on Belgian bank accounts. You said in 2011 that it was fourteen billion euros frozen in Belgium, so that they are not misused in Libya, a country in democratic reconstruction. A representative of the Ministry of Justice today states that five billion euros remain out of the fourteen billion euros. About 10 billion euros have disappeared. However, the European regulation is clear. When we talk about funds, we talk about both the funds and the interest generated by these funds. This regulation lays down very strict rules which must be met in order to thaw the funds to pay them back to beneficiaries. When I last asked the Minister of Finance on the subject on 26 September 2017, he told me that, on the basis of a European interpretation of the RELEX Group – you will tell us if it concerns you as Minister of External Relations – the interests of the frozen accounts of these entities as of 16 September 2011 could be released. This is a particularly surprising interpretation in the light of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Minister of Finance, I would like to make it clear through your answers. Where are these ten billion euros? What role did you and your administration play in releasing those funds that should have remained frozen? To which authority have these funds been disbursed? What did they do for them? Is there evidence that they have not been used to finance, for example, terrorist acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that we have at least the same readings. We all read the same press article released this morning. I did find in this article the trace of ten billion euros, but it is the only place. For the rest, as I have already pointed out, and in order to correct the inaccuracies, the Belgian authority responsible for applying the restrictive measures of the European Union, and in particular the derogations from the assets freeze, is the FPS Finance, the administration of the Treasury. I know something about that, since I've been exercising this responsibility for a few weeks. However, I understand the confusion. In all countries, the diplomatic site is indicated for access to the responsible authority. If you visit the Department of Foreign Affairs website, you will see, after a simple click, the description of the responsibilities. The FPS Finance, the Treasury Administration, is in charge of these procedures. I have just heard the name in the RELEX Group following the question of sanctions. The role of Foreign Affairs is to negotiate possible new sanctions regimes or to transmit information. With regard to the other elements mentioned in this article this morning, I asked the Department of Finance whether it had any information from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. This is what was communicated to me. In order for me to give you a full answer, I would like to read the reaction of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, which was contacted by the FPS Finance. I quote: 'The Brussels Public Prosecutor can confirm that, in the context of his investigation, the investigating judge seized about EUR 5 billion from two Libyan companies in the Euroclear account. In addition, Euroclear initiated a legal procedure to challenge the seizure of this account. The case is currently before the Chamber of Complaints of Brussels and no comment is made. The Brussels Office has not made any other communication on this dossier." I can't confirm what you read, like me, in a press article. I can simply confirm that there is a liability in the event of a request for the freezing of assets from the Treasury administration, which has confirmed to me that I have not decided to thaw. The disclosure of the Prosecutor's Office does not concern all the information read this morning, but the seizure of an amount and Euroclear's appeal against this seizure. The prosecution does not want to make any further comments. I have no other information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. Admit that if the facts are proven, things are indeed serious. Belgium is facing sanctions, whether at United Nations or European Union level. Belgium's image may again be tainted at the international level. You are not in a position to act today. You drown the fish. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u24	Colleagues, we are listening to Mr Crusnière.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u25	I ask, Mr Minister, that a precise inquiry be organised, in a transparent manner, and that Parliament be promptly informed about the conduct of this inquiry, so that we can see clearly in this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u26	Minister, I have just said that I blinked when I read the article, but my mouth falls open when you answer it. You are referring to an amount of 5 billion, which would have been confiscated. That corresponds to what the article says, because that amount would still be in that account. So you have just implicitly confirmed that EUR 10 billion has disappeared from that account. Since the fall of last year, the government has known that 10 billion have disappeared. That's what's hurting our country's image. Our country is also at risk of being held responsible, either by the European Commission or by the UN Sanctions Committee, for the loss of EUR 10 billion. The fact that the government does not yet have an answer to that today is something that falls open to me. With our sp.a group, we are asking for clarity from the government. I have no doubt that several colleagues, including the PS colleague I just heard, will join in. Where did the EUR 10 billion go?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u27	Minister, the purpose of the question is not so much to ask you to be the spokesperson for the prosecution or your colleague from the FPS Finances; the purpose of the question is to know two simple things. First, what amount has been blocked in implementation of the decisions of the United Nations Security Council on bank accounts in Belgium in relation to Libyan litigation? What was the amount at the time the resolution was applied in Belgian law? Secondly, what is the present amount on the frozen accounts? That's what we're interested in. You don't want to answer us. We will not be able to shelter ourselves behind a judicial investigation – seizure is one thing. The question is what was the amount at a given time and what is the amount still present in those accounts today. You do not want to answer today, we will return to the burden as often as necessary. We will not ignore the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u28	Mr President, I note that colleagues are often very attentive to read an article. But when it comes to listening to some answers... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u29	Minister, I had the attention to ask your colleague Van Overtveldt... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u30	You can say what you want, you are haunted by the nebula of the plot! Minister, thank you for your clarification. I understand that we are in an ongoing procedure and I imagine that we will have other elements if it is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u31	Minister, you claim not to know the amount of Libyan assets frozen in Belgium. You said more in 2011 as Minister of Finance. An article by La Libre Belgique said: "The Minister of Finance Didier Reynders confirms that assets worth EUR 14 billion have been frozen in Belgium. Didier Reynders also states that most of these funds have been frozen at Euroclear, the international bond company." Today, and as you mentioned, the FPS Justice informs us that there are 5 billion left on Euroclear's accounts. So almost 10 billion are missing. The Minister of Finance, whom I have already asked on this subject, replied that this was an interpretation of the RELEX Group, under the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Your only answer now is very elegantly to revive the ball to your colleague in Finance, whom I will of course continue to question. It is a pity that the Prime Minister has left, because this is indeed a serious issue, on which the government must make all the clarity. Belgium has clearly failed to comply with its international obligations to freeze these funds. It's very serious! To whom have these assets been paid? What did they do for them? To terrorist acts? All clarity must be possible on this issue, otherwise we will again be designated, at the international level, as having failed to fulfil our obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u32	Mr Minister, I had actually addressed this question to the Prime Minister, but I understand that you are a greater expert in parachuting chiefs of the cabinet. The appointment of Jean-Claude Juncker's Head of Cabinet, Martin Selmayr, as Secretary-General of the European Commission, has been at an incredibly rapid pace. Normally, such a procedure takes months. Now that was rescheduled in a few weeks. At the end of January, that man applied to become Deputy Secretary-General, because with his degree of director he could not become the highest official in the EU. He was promoted to this task on 21 February. Within the same minute, he was promoted to Secretary-General. Two promotions in one minute, I think this is a world record, Minister. To be okay with the rules, at least two candidates for such a top position, Clara Martinez, the deputy secretary of Selmayr, was used as a strawwoman. They've spread lies. The Commission spokesperson said that the members of the committee had heard several candidates, but they did not hear that bogus candidate at all. In the meantime, she had withdrawn her candidacy. In the meantime, Selmayr has already been succeeded in his previous post as head of the cabinet. The most punitive of all is that Selmayr, according to the French newspaper Libération, has pawned the committee members to approve his appointment by promising to get an office in Brussels on departure, a car with driver, two assistants and a very generous watch money scheme for five years. What arrogance, Minister, what scandal. Minister, how is this government going to react to this? Are you going to ask for clarification, just as the Netherlands rightly does? Or are you going to send a letter, as the Netherlands rightly does, to the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, requesting an inquiry into this case? Have you asked our Commissioner Marianne Thyssen for any clarification? Do you understand why she continues to support Selmayr? Either she knew about the carousel and was an accomplice, or she knew nothing about it, was unprepared and let herself roll. I am very curious to hear your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u33	Mrs. Pas, I can be very brief. The appointment is an internal matter for the European Commission. There are internal control procedures at the European level. Some of these procedures are now under way in the European Parliament. We await the conclusions of the European Parliament before we give a response from Belgium. It is an internal matter at European level. We await the conclusion of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u34	Minister, if such a shady appointment were to take place in any other country with which you cooperate, you would suspend that cooperation with that monkey country because of poor governance. Now it is precisely the European Commission, the Commission, which tells the Member States whether they have followed the rules correctly or not, which itself is scandalously and arrogantly sweeping its feet at it. It's unbelievable. She's lost all her credibility. It's very typical that this government doesn't do anything. You await the investigation and continue to suffer the arrogance of the Commission. You will continue to pay more than EUR 3 billion annually for the running costs of the European Union, but you will do nothing else. However, the Vice-President of the N-VA calls on Twitter to sign a petition to dismiss Selmayr, but this N-VA government does nothing. The words and the deeds they know in the meantime are again miles apart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u35	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for so-called national security reasons, the US President is threatening to impose tariffs of 25% on steel imports and 10% on aluminum imports. The target countries are of course the European countries, but also a dozen other producing countries. The crux of the problem is overcapacity in production, with some countries heavily subsidizing their industry. This is the case for China, for example, which produces half of the world's steel. The European Commission, while hoping that these measures will not be implemented, has nevertheless prepared, with the consent of the Member States, a series of retaliatory measures amounting to EUR 2.8 billion. Subsequently, the US President responded by threatening imports of European cars. I come to my questions, Deputy Prime Minister. How can we convince the US administration of the counter-productivity of these measures on trade and the global economy? Could the WTO play an arbitrator role in this context? How can we mobilize other partner countries that are also affected by these measures? The OECD has been working on these overcapacity issues since 2016. Have any concrete measures been taken? Are these measures likely to have a negative impact on the Belgian steel industry and other Belgian sectors affected by these retaliatory measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u36	Minister, an open or closed society, that is what politicians stand for today. Liberals opt for an open society because it ensures tomorrow's growth, creates jobs and offers products and services at competitive prices. Over the past few decades, this policy has brought people out of poverty. For decades tens of millions of people have been removed from poverty thanks to free trade. That's the truth. However, we note in 2018 that protectionism has been back, with President Trump, who is now advocating import tariffs, but he is not the only one. The Brexit has also taught us that such a choice makes victims, including the British themselves. In our parliaments, too, some argue for protectionism. The whole debate on the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, led by then Prime Minister Magnette with the support of Green, has made us realize that there are protectionist reflexes there too. Even in our majority, colleagues, parties have doubts. CD&V, for example, did not want to ratify CETA immediately yesterday in the Flemish Parliament and colleagues from the MR are on the brakes when it comes to the free trade agreement with Latin America. The spirit of Trump is through many parliaments. However, a trade war is the worst thing that can happen to us. After all, a trade war only makes losers: the consumers, who pay more expensive prices, and also the companies and people who risk losing their jobs. That's why we need a smarter answer to what Trump is doing. Instead of opting for a trade war, we must opt for more trade agreements with other continents so that our consumers get better. Minister, I have two questions for you. Firstly, what do you think of President Trump's proposed measures? Secondly, do you support the countermeasures as formulated by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u37	Minister, President Trump announced last week that he would increase import duties on steel and aluminium. That decision he calls himself logical and he describes it as easy, as simple. However, this decision threatens to trigger a trade conflict worldwide, a trade war. That is, of course, the last thing we are waiting for. International trade is crucial for our country and for Europe. Our country, Belgium, is one of the most open economies in the world. Trade, growth and jobs are the driving force behind our prosperity, our economy. More than 750 000 people in Belgium alone are linked to or depend on exports. That number will only increase. For an open economy such as ours, therefore, a sustainable trade policy is also crucial. Our party bets on that. After all, a threatening trade war with the United States also hypothesized our future, our prosperity. We must be very aware that such a trade war is not helping anyone forward. The past has proved that enough. If President Trump knew the economic history of his own country, he would know that this is not the right way to work. We must, of course, try to defend ourselves. If President Trump is going through with this, then we need to arm ourselves and take action. Even if the import charges do not apply to Europe, they will still disrupt the world market and there is still a risk that we will be flooded with cheap steel and aluminium from China and India, for example. Do you have any idea whether the import duties will actually apply to our country or to the European Union? Which specific products will be included? What initiatives will our government take? Will we, for example, take safeguard measures against steel from third countries if the United States does indeed impose an import charge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, it is nothing new: the then presidential candidate of the United States, who is now President, already announced such measures, especially for the steel industry, during his election campaign in the United States. We have been in contact with our colleagues in Washington for several months now to try to counter this evolution. I must confirm to you that the increasingly insistent announcement unfortunately concerns an entry tax. In the case of steel, it would probably be 25%, while in the case of aluminium it would be 10%. We are not yet certain of the products or origins that will be covered, as statements have sometimes been contradictory in this regard. As far as our country is concerned, in any case, the share of steel destined for the US market accounts for 1 to 2 % of our production. However, it is important to have an overview of the whole of European production and to see if other products could not be affected. What are the possible reactions? First of all, we focus on our contacts with colleagues in the US. That may not be enough. There was an informal meeting of the foreign ministers of the European Union in Sofia a few weeks ago. It was then decided to respond. First and foremost, we must consider measures against a number of American products. The Foreign Trade Ministers unanimously gave such a mandate to the Commission. In addition, consideration should also be given to a global procedure. It is also possible that we can bring proceedings before the WTO. In short, it is normal for the European Union, where appropriate, to take countermeasures. Now I would like to confirm that our orientation is obviously not to enter into a trade war, which would be negative for everyone. Secondly, regardless of the immediate reactions, I would like to stress our interventions in the international negotiations. We need more bilateral agreements with partners from all over the world. There's CETA with Canada. There are now also agreements with Japan and Vietnam. We are in the final stage of negotiations with Mercosur and Mexico. We must also continue to work on agreements with Australia and New Zealand, even though we must remain very attentive to the questions relating to the agricultural sector. It is probably by opening this field of trade agreements with a large number of partners in a proper manner, with all the necessary clauses that we have often debated in this House, that we can also respond to this unfortunate development of American withdrawal from ourselves and to this equally initiative of exiting several multilateral fora. That's what I can tell you today. The measure in question would obviously have an effect on Belgian productions. We need to develop a common response from the European Member States. However, it must not only be based on countermeasures, but must also be translated into an orderly WTO procedure as well as continued negotiations of trade agreements with other international partners. You will have understood that, for the trade agreement with the United States, we may still have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u39	Minister, thank you for your response and for the attention you give to this topic. It is to be hoped, in any case, that the Americans will remember that the European countries are their natural allies, both from a military and a commercial point of view, so many exchanges are between Europe and the United States. Moreover, if these measures were to be implemented, it would be important to do everything possible to avoid a trade war. As you suggest, it would be wise to be able to establish other relationships and to enter into treaties with other countries. In any case, it is certain that a weakening of international trade can lead to a slowdown in the expansion of the economy. But we know that our countries urgently need to operate their respective economies, because that is the basis for progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, I don't need to remind you of the government's mantra: jobs, jobs, jobs. There's gonna be thousands of them. The government attaches that to its policy. Let us be honest: the government can push in the right direction, but the real reason for economic growth and more jobs is, of course, that we are dealing here with the largest and most successful free trade area in history: the European Union. The single market proves that free trade works. The uncomfortable truth is that if we did have an agreement with the United States, such measures would be impossible. With the current president, it won't work. I hope that you will be able to meet the following and that we will then be able to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States. That is what our country and Europe need!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In fact, we must not end up in a bid for protectionist measures. A trade war doesn't help anyone. Countermeasures must be our last resort. I believe that we should not respond to a figure like President Trump with the same impulsiveness as he shows. We must show some coolness. At the same time, we must not forget, of course, that the companies in our country will be affected by this and that we must take the appropriate countermeasures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u42	Mr President, Minister, I am afraid I have not lost an oversized football fan. Also the hip-hop scene is only known to me from what I hear on the radio. I have to admit, it's often quite catchy songs. On the other hand, I rarely understand the text and perhaps it is better. This week we witnessed a strange marriage. The Soccer League goes in with the Brussels rapper Damso for the World Championship song. I understand that the Brussels hip-hop scene is hip and a happening nowadays. So, so far, that choice can still understand. However, the hip-hop scene is not known for great fine lyrics. Most of the time, they are rude and very women's unfriendly, as Secretary of State Demir indicated this week. Of course, no one expects the rappers suddenly to start rapping about flowers and bees. You shouldn't. Every scene has its own lingo. I can still place that. However, it does not seem to me to be the type of music with which they want to unite supporters. The Football Association does not see any bones in it, but would like to enter into the conversation with some big sponsors, under pressure from among others Coca Cola. Mr Minister, my question is simple. To what extent do you think it is appropriate for public companies such as the National Lottery and Proximus to sponsor all this? Is that the image that we have in mind for our public enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, thank you for this question. No better day than International Women's Day to ask this question. Those who listen to the lyrics of Damso will indeed hear that they are particularly unfeminine and portray the woman as a lust object, even as a sort of disposable object. I think that's vulgar lyrics, but in my eyes, Damso can sing whatever he wants. I am liberal and the last thing I want is to curb freedom of speech. However, I do not think this is about Damso, but about the social responsibility of the Royal Belgian Football Association. And that social responsibility, there is. At least the social charter of the organisation is written. It is an organization that fights discrimination and puts respect before everyone. I therefore expect the Football Association to put these choices into practice and choose role models that inspire, not discriminate. Instead of tackling the Women's Council, I think it would make sense for the Football League to admit that it was wrong. Making mistakes is human, even in football. Proximus, who is indeed a sponsor of the Royal Belgian Football Association, has informed me this morning that respect for every individual, female friendliness and gender equality are values that the company carries out and that it expects this from its partners. Proximus is concerned about the choice for Damso and insists on a conversation, like some other sponsors of the Football Association. Dominique Leroy, the CEO of Proximus, also informed me that she, as a woman and as CEO herself, explicitly distanced herself from this choice. It does not support this choice and, personally, insists on a change of choice. I support her 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The decision of the Football Association is not a good signal for us. It does not seem to us to be the genre of music that must unite supporters. Nor does that genre seem to us to be the image that the government must adhere to. However, to stay in the atmosphere, I would like to give the next tip to both the Football League and Damso. The only real hip-hop kings are from West Flanders. Let me quote them. They would say: 'Message to all rappers from all over Belgium: well tried'.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u45	Secretary of State Francken will have to leave us sooner because of his European agenda. That is why I propose that Mrs Monica De Coninck's question, which I have also contacted about, should be dealt with first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, today we were able to read in the press about a secure return flight for a Chechen family, consisting of ten people, to Poland, where they had originally applied for asylum. They would therefore be repatriated with a special flight on sintering class day. What a gift! The family turned out to be incomplete. It was then decided to repatriate the family members separately. Eventually, the flight didn't go on because Poland objected. I just don't know what to do with it. I have a number of questions, Mr Secretary of State. Why was it decided to put in a special flight? Have any other ways been used before to repatriate that family? You always say in committee: 'Voluntary if you can, forced if you have to'. So you'll try other procedures first. A special flight is only put in in emergency situations. Because one of the daughters was missing, it was decided to separate the family. The father protested against it. The police, with multiple agents, grabbed him. That happened under the eyes of the children. You can imagine that this was traumatic for those kids. Even the MR mayor of Geldenaken found it too gritty and contacted Prime Minister Michel. Prime Minister Michel is right to conduct an investigation. Sending people back can be legitimate, but the way it happens must be humane. I don't know, Mr Secretary of State, if you've ever seen the movie Sophie's Choice, but put yourself in their place. You're a young father. You have children of your own. If you were to find yourself in a vulnerable situation and if you wanted to divorce your family again, how would you react with your temperament? I asked for this and last week, written and oral, friendly figures on the expulsions in 2017 and 2018. I did not receive these figures in writing, but I had to ask my question again orally. It is a problem that we do not get that information, although you have the habit of always tweeting everything else. I therefore agree with Mr Vuye's comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u47	Thank you, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u48	Yeah, but I have one more question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u49	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u50	One incident follows the other. We have said on several occasions that there is a need for a professional follow-up, away from the Twitter reality and the delusion of the day. I think that's what the Prime Minister wants. When is this finally being done?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u51	Mrs De Coninck, first of all I would like to point out that the fight against asylum shopping is and remains very important for the government. We cannot accept that asylum seekers can freely choose their country of asylum and walk away from pending procedures. The Chechen family that had previously applied for asylum in Poland, so an order to leave the territory was issued in accordance with the European Dublin Directive and the Dublin Agreements. However, the family refused to comment on this, even after the deadline for a voluntary return had expired, and rejected the help that Fedasil offered. So they have been offered to return voluntarily, several times, but the family has refused to do so. However, the family had to return to Poland, because it had submitted the first asylum application there. That's how it works. By refusing to comply with the legal order, which is a criminal offence until further notice, our services had no choice but to proceed to a forced return to Poland. Because of the size of the family that counts ten people, that proved impossible via a private airline. That's why this case was chosen for a secure flight through Melsbroek airport. There was no alternative, my services wanted to enforce the necessary respect for the residence law. This case also brings to the attention of a bad practice which unfortunately often occurs in family repatriation files, namely the deliberate hiding of one family member in order to split up the family and prevent repatriation. In this particular case, the daughter suddenly appeared to sleep with a friend, just on the evening before the return was planned. The parents didn't want to share the identity and address of that girlfriend with the police. They then decided to return the pre-existing children with one parent to Poland and to keep the other parent temporarily in Belgium until they could join the family in Poland together with the missing daughter. Due to the conditions of communication with Poland, the planned return flight was finally cancelled at the eleventh hour. The fact that the daughter did not reappear until the day after the Dublin deadline, which brought the responsibility for the asylum application back to Belgium, naturally illustrates the deliberate opposition of the family. At the moment the family is still in Belgium. The family is under the aegis of the CGVS. The asylum procedure is now entirely our competence. It's running. We'll see what comes out of that. The reports made on this case do not show that my services or the police would have acted unjustly or disproportionately. I thank them along this road for their commitment and professionalism. I answered your questions about the figures on Tuesday in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u52	Mr Secretary of State, we have no problem sending people back if it is legitimate, but the rules of the Vermeersch Commission must be followed and checked. As far as the follow-up committee is concerned, I have already mentioned this a few times here. I made a proposal. It takes five minutes of political courage to approve that. It's necessary, or do we need to get killed first?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u53	Minister, allow me to convey here today an open letter from both French- and Dutch-speaking family movements, but also from women's movements. If I want to relay it, it's also because it's a project I'm carrying. We often talk about 15 weeks of maternity leave. At the same time, let us acknowledge that both self-employed persons are granted maternity leave of 12 weeks, but even more serious, a whole series of women who are ill at the end of pregnancy, who have a complicated pregnancy, who may have a gap, are directly penalized since their post-natal leave is not then 14 weeks, but can be reduced to 9 weeks. They therefore have a double penalty: at the same time, their maternity leave is clearly planed, but in addition, they actually have their illness and pregnancy difficulties. The consequences are anything but banal, not only for themselves, but also for babies. Madam Minister, I say this very clearly here: an illness at the end of pregnancy, a complicated pregnancy is not maternity leave. It's the 21st century. It is now time to finally be able to grant full maternity leave to young women and, above all, to stop planing this maternity leave for bad reasons. Minister, are you going, yes or no, to allow young women to choose the time from which they take maternity leave and, above all, to stop planing for bad reasons these holidays, to which, however, they are entitled, to protect maternity with also an important issue for babies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u54	Mrs Fonck, as you know, maternity leave for private sector employees consists of 15 weeks, six of which are prenatal and nine are postnatal. Like you, I am very invested in improving the situation of pregnant women. I would like to recall that since December 1, 2016, we have increased the duration of maternity leave for self-employed women from eight to twelve weeks. Historically, the duration of maternity leave had been set at nine weeks for the physical recovery of the birth. It should be noted that the raison d'être of the maternity rest scheme is recovery, not the mother-child relationship. For example, in cases of multiple births, the mother is entitled to an additional two weeks. It is a mistake to think that fifteen weeks of prenatal and postnatal rest is a kind of leave period. In Belgium, the social security system provides for thematic leave as periods of leave, such as parental leave. In the private sector, these schemes have also evolved significantly. Maternity leave should not only be taken into account when talking about the protection of vulnerable mothers. There is also a need to assess the position of pregnant women and the obstacles to their participation in the labour market. At European level, the European Commission has launched a proposal on work-life balance for parents and co-parents. All these elements are therefore taken into account. This proposal is being analysed by all the Member States of the European Union and also by Belgium. This is not a narrow approach. The European Union is wondering how to better analyse the relationship between the labour market and privacy and how to do so. For example, lower prices and improve the quality of childcare, better adapt thematic holidays for fathers and co-parents as well. I do not deny at all that the protection of future mothers is facing challenges, but I am sure that smart measures can help us to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I tend to say you're drowning the fish. In fact, globalizing all the supports and family leave arrangements is a bit easy because you deny, in a way, what for bad reasons is imposed on women. Increasing from fourteen to nine weeks of postnatal leave due to illness, due to difficult pregnancy, sometimes due to severe complications of pregnancy, I find that this is not worthy of a 21st century state, and therefore of Belgium. You know, Madam Minister, I heard a few days ago, under European pressure, that sick days during the holidays were actually going to be immunised. Here, sick leave during maternity leave will not be possible. Worse, they will continue directly to amputate and plan postnatal leave. I don't think that's right. In 2016, 40,000 people supported a petition to develop this system. Minister, I have tabled a bill to that effect. I really appeal to all the women in this House. On my behalf, on behalf of other women, I hope, and on behalf of all these signatories, I would like to present this bill to you. I hope that we can make progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u56	Minister, Green and Ecolo are very concerned about the way in which the government deals with the heavy professions. It is clear that everyone must make an effort. If we want to safeguard our social security, we must, among other things, work longer. However, it shows very little sense of reality when it is thought that teachers and workers in the health and care sector can continue to work until their 67th. That will only lead to more sickness and disability. These are serious professions and they must be recognised as such. Teachers and care providers should be able to retire early. However, the problem is that the government is very frighteningly filling in the definition of heavy-duty professions, which means that in jobs with a constant excessive mental burden risk falling off the boat and that their profession is not recognized as a heavy-duty profession. However, this has a negative impact on the health of those concerned. The latest figures from the SERV also show that it is not feasible for those persons to work as long as others. So something absolutely must be done in this area. Do you know who the biggest victims of the pension proposals you put on the table? Those are women. Women work more often than men in jobs with excessive mental stress and therefore threaten to fall out of the boat. Today is International Women's Day. We want to give you the opportunity to do more than just pay lip service. We ask you to draw up a human, fair and sound pension policy, which means that you will reform in a just way. This means that you acknowledge that these workers are engaged in a heavy occupation. It is not a question of staying blind and pretending that there is no such thing. Go to the workplace and then you will find out how it is going for the teacher in an overcrowded class in secondary education or for the worker in the health and care sector. Moreover, you urgently need a gender check in your cabinet. This is yet another example of a woman's unfriendly pension measure. We have already had the increase in minimum pensions, linked to the condition of 45 career years, which is much more difficult for women to achieve. There is also an average pension gap of 350 euros between men and women in our country. You really need a gender test and a much fairer pension policy. Reforms can, but do them in a human and just way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u57	Minister, when will a decision finally be taken in the case of the heavy-duty professions? When you imposed the age of 67 on the working population in Belgium, you said that not everyone should work for up to 67 years, because there would be many exceptions. The heavy-duty professions were, among other things, an exception. However, we are awaiting a decision on this matter. Thousands of workers in Belgium are waiting for that decision because they feel that they are engaged in a heavy occupation, and they are right. Today, Minister, you must take a decision on measures taken against all workers. On this 8th March, a day of struggle for women's rights, it must be said that your measures particularly affect women in this country. You say that at the age of 60, with a 40-year-old career, it is possible to leave earlier. However, when you look a little closer, two thirds of women do not have such a career. Their careers are not complete. You proposed to remove stress as a criterion for recognizing a difficult job. It is obvious that this will particularly affect women. Indeed, they are less numerous in heavy industry. But in the new sectors, particularly in education, you are refusing to decide that these are heavy trades. I know that one of your majority partners blocks on the file and refuses that the coefficients exceed 1.05. Will you continue not to decide? Or are you finally going to recognize all the needs of the world of work, especially those of women? They could leave a little earlier in one of the most productive economies in the world, where hundreds of thousands of young people are simply asking for work. I am very curious to hear your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u58	Mr Minister, when you arrived, you imposed without concerted action measures obliging our fellow citizens to work longer, in particular by lowering the pension age to 67 years, while the healthy life expectancy is 64 years. We know and you know that not everyone will be able to continue working until they are 67 years old. The issue of hard work is therefore essential; we await and wish it. It is a question of social justice to allow those who have a difficult job to retire earlier. Of course, objective health-related criteria will have to be taken into account. On this day of struggle for women's rights, while inequalities remain very prevalent - wage gap, 26 per cent pension gap, incomplete careers, etc. - your reforms remain misogynistic. You increase the minimum pensions but it only concerns full careers. Women are therefore excluded. And, with your reform of hardness at work, you persist. First of all, because you are undermining the periods assimilated with your notion of actual benefit; it is known that women are the most affected. Then you decided that stress will not be a burdensome criterion in its own right. However, occupations in which women are well represented are more often faced with a psychosocial burden than with a physical one. I am thinking in particular of teachers. Minister, are you committed to submitting your reform to an independent gender study before it is adopted? Beyond that, where are you on this file? When will it be on the table of the Council of Ministers? What are the developments in relation to the preliminary draft rejected by the N-VA last December? Will you rectify these discriminations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u59	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again dealing with the problem of the heavy professions, or should we refer to the issue of'saving pensions'? After all, it is again a question of saving. This time, Minister, heavy workers are the victims of your politics. Once again, you consider pensioners to be a cost factor. Once again, you do not give any certainty about the future and the date on which people can retire. The proposal for the public sector is very women's unfriendly. More employees will fall out of the boat than we think. There are two reasons for this. First of all, you will not charge the stress factor as a separate element. You do not know, however, that stress factors often play a role in occupations in which women are mainly employed. Let's think about education or the nursing sector. Women are usually in professions where people have to be treated and they get a lot of complicated tasks. As a woman, I would like to explain to you, Minister, what these stressful and burdensome factors are. Because of your method of working, those women will fall out of the boat. What is much worse, Minister, is that you will count on the years worked. This means that the period of incapacity for work due to an accident at work due to the heavy occupation is not included in the calculation of the pension date. Will that also apply to women on maternity leave? Will that period not count, too, if they have a heavy occupation? Mr President, it is enough to say that this will save money. You have allocated money, and that is ten times less than what is being spent on the heavy professions today. There is therefore no policy for the heavy professions. You're only interested in saving money. It is a pity that this has to be discussed on International Women's Day. I'm glad my male colleagues are sticking up for the women. It is time for you, as Minister of Pensions, to think about women and apply your gender test to all your policies. You'll be amazed, Minister. I come to my questions. Are you prepared to apply the gender test, especially in the context of the heavy professions? Are you prepared to cut the budget for the heavy-duty professions in advance? You must first look at who is all under the heading of heavy professions, and then you must put a budget against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, discussions are still under way on the draft law on the inclusion of penitentiaries in pension rights. The recognition of penitibility will indeed allow a number of workers, regardless of their scheme, to benefit from an advance retirement or an increase in the amount of their pension. This reform enshrines the idea of taking into account, in the determination of pension rights, the reality of the professional functions performed and the length of time attached to them. Of course, the sensitivities of government partners may vary according to the aspect of the reform that is involved. That's normal in a coalition government. However, the discussions are very constructive. I am hopeful that we will soon reach agreement on all aspects of the reform. Once an agreement has been reached, the social dialogue on the text of the preliminary draft law may start in the A Committee, as well as in the management committees of the Federal Pension Service and the self-employed. At the same time as consulting on the text of the preliminary draft law, a list of heavy-duty professions will have to be drawn up. The list to be applied in the public sector will be negotiated with the trade unions on the A Committee. The social partners will also be invited to draw up a list which will apply in the private sector. It is only after the social dialogue on the text and after the opinion of the Council of State that the preliminary draft law will be submitted to the Chamber. The content of the draft law is based on the four criteria defined by the National Pension Committee in terms of physical coercion, such as physical load, work organisation, risk, safety and mental or emotional hardship. The preliminary draft law is also based on a guidance note prepared by the secretariat of the National Pension Committee, aimed at determining the impact of recognition of hardship on pension rights. Questions about the concrete elements of this bill are, I believe, somewhat premature, since the debate on the draft bill will take place when it is discussed in committee. The same applies to issues relating to the occupational categories which will benefit from this reform. I hope, indeed, that the social consultation which will make it possible to draw up a list of arduous occupations can take place calmly. I am sometimes surprised to hear in the mouth of some opposition parliamentarians that, for them, the role of teacher or nurse should not be recognized as painful. I never said it, but you say it! I am sometimes a little surprised at this way of acting which, in my view, is not in favour of a calm debate or a proper negotiation on this matter. Contrary to what I often hear, this reform does not have a budgetary purpose. The granting of more favourable arrangements in the regulation of pensions, linked to the recognition of penitibility, will clearly entail a cost. In order to do so, the Government has already set out budget allocations for each pension scheme, which will be released in order to cover the cost of early retirement or the increase in the amount of the pension for workers in difficult jobs. These envelopes are destined to evolve upwards over time as the pension rights related to penitibility are created. Some say that the reform would be detrimental to women. I don't see how that would be possible. The criteria for the heavy-duty professions are the same for men and women. There's no difference. The emotional and mental stress is taken into account. It is an aggravating element in the recognition of the gravity of an occupation. Finally, the Federal Office of the Plan and the Aging Study Committee make it clear that all of the pension reforms we are undertaking are reducing the risk of poverty and increasing the lowest pensions, especially for women.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u61	Minister, it is a great pity that today you do not want to reassure the people with a heavy occupation that their profession will be recognised as such and that they will therefore be able to retire earlier. This makes sense, however, considering the circumstances under which teachers, workers in the care sector, nurses and construction workers must work. You're making things depend on government negotiations. You do not, of course, leave a blank sheet. The starting point of your proposal is not to fully include the fact that employees work with excessive mental stress in an occupation and have to deal with stress situations constantly. You do not want to take full account of that. However, we are asking a reasonable question. We do not ask for the profession of everyone who occasionally experiences stress at work to be recognised as a heavy occupation. It is documented, it covers 5% to 20% of employees. We can also imagine what jobs this is about. Go to the workplace, talk to the people involved, and then you'll experience what that means. Four years ago, the government made the capital mistake of raising the retirement age and the age for early retirement without providing a solution for the heavy professions. You've had four years to settle that. This has not yet been done and, meanwhile, the age of early retirement is slowly rising, without a solution for, among other things, all those teachers and workers in the care sector, who work their way out of the seam every day. You leave them in the cold. This will depend on government negotiations. It is a pity that the three Flemish majority parties have not spoken here today, because I would like to know the position of CD&V, Open Vld and the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u62	Three weeks ago, Minister, you did not want to answer the arguments that showed that there is a great social difference in pension and life expectancy in our country. Last week a study was carried out in France which clearly shows that the life expectancy of persons with higher education is 13 years higher than that of those with lower education. There is a difference of thirteen years in our Western countries. You make a decision to let everyone leave at the same age. The difference will therefore be that some people will be able to enjoy another two years after 67 years and others will be able to enjoy another fifteen years. That's not right. We have here today indicted that there are also different consequences of your decision for women and men. This has a clear reason: their careers are not the same in Belgium. You are taking measures to ensure that workers and servants who are unable to live a full-time career have to work longer. Who are they in our country? That's a lot more women because they don't have the same career. The problem, Minister, is that you are taking measures that will affect women more. It takes 40 years of career to go to an early pension and two thirds of women do not have these 40 years of career! So you are taking action against women! That is why, throughout Europe, Spain, Great Britain and Brussels, there will be struggles by all women this 8 March to get you back in your anti-social measures!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u63	Minister, you are talking about equivalent criteria, but you know that the employment of women is not the same as that of men. The consequences will therefore be different. I would like to reiterate that your reform proposal is to take up the budget of the tantèmes and redistribute a small envelope in disregard of the criteria of workers' health. Finally, workers who have a difficult job – especially women – should either work longer in order to have a full career, or be able to stop earlier with a smaller pension. Fifty years after the women-machine strike in Herstal, the principle of equal work for equal pay and equal pension is more than ever flouted. Definitely, you're not the minister of pensioners!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u64	Mr Minister, I would like to give you two things. Firstly, you answer that your proposal does not mean savings. I suggest that you read again the report of the Treasury Inspectorate on your proposal. You will see very clearly that this is a saving. Secondly, Minister, I have also read that there is another summit meeting with the various ministers today. I would like to ask you one thing: a little empathy. Minister, I am not asking you to turn yourself into a woman. Here's what I'm asking you. Minister, you are less than 67 years old. You're a little under the age of 65. I would ask you to imagine today that from today until your age of 67 you have 25 kindergarten children in your care every day you work, so from today and actually even earlier, until you are 67 years old. Minister, I would like you to take that empathy to the summit this evening on the heavy professions. This situation is not sustainable for many people. They cannot pursue that profession for up to 67 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u65	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the way we have dealt with disability and job reintegration has changed a lot in recent decades. We are focusing more and more on what people can do, rather than what they can no longer do. We are doing this with regard to both men and women, not unimportant on this International Women's Day. We are looking for a tailor-made job to get those people back on the labour market, with the necessary support and guidance. Rightly so, because if labour integration is successful, everyone wins. First and foremost, the employee, who is improving both financially and socially. But also social security, we all have to pay less and receive more social contributions. That is why it is so difficult to understand that the current civil servants' sickness pension scheme for incapacity is still based on a system devised in 1844. You heard me right: 1844. That's long before Bismarck launched social security long before our post-World War II system. At that time, it was logical for an official who had something going on to be written off. He got dumped, he got a small fee and that was it. That is why I was pleased to read yesterday in Sudpresse that you will finally take concrete steps towards abolishing the sickness pension for civil servants. By the way, that is also explicitly stated in the coalition agreement. Despite opposition from Brussels and a little bit from Wallonia, you would like to submit this matter to the social partners in the public sector in the A Committee. What's the timeline? What concrete steps are being taken to finally abolish this system? The next question is certainly just as important. If that system is abolished, what do you intend to do for the reintegration of those involved? Have you discussed this with your colleagues, the ministers De Block and Peeters? Will those concerned, in terms of reintegration, be covered by the same system as that applied to workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u66	Mr President, Mr Spooren, I can confirm that one of the drafts on which I am currently working, together with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Civil Service, concerns the abolition of the pension for physical incapacity. It is not a question of simply abolishing the pension for physical incapacity but of replacing it with an invalidity allowance for all Belgian officials. The draft reform aims to respond to the painful social situations in which people find themselves when they are retired very early for physical incapacity and are excluded from the labour market with a very small pension amount. Since this reform concerns all officials, we were mandated to propose this scenario and negotiate with the Länder and the parties concerned. The negotiation process with the Länder started just over a year ago. We then adopted the Consultative Committee, which gave its agreement on 31 May last to set up a technical working group. Each Land was asked to respond to the reform under discussion. Some Länder replied by means of an official letter, others expressed their views at the Consultation Committee on 7 March. During this Consultation Committee, the French Community and the COCOF undertook to forward to the government the necessary figures to allow the government to carry out the simulations requested by these Länder. In accordance with the budgetary notifications, I will, together with colleagues from Social Affairs and Civil Service, present the results of this negotiation at a forthcoming Council of Ministers, so that a decision can be taken on the abolition of the pension system due to physical incapacity and the transfer of statutory staff to the envisaged system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u67	Minister, I am glad to hear that you want to take concrete steps on this dossier. The N-VA has long been asking to abolish the current system of sickness pensions and reform it into a system similar to that of the employee pension in the private sector. For example, all government employers are responsive to helping sick civil servants return to a job in their own administration. But I believe that, by analogy with the private sector, we should also look at reemployment in other public sectors. Medex needs to be reformed from a dumping mechanism to a reintegration committee. The government has to make an effort to reintegrate sick people. I believe that this draft law is very necessary and very urgent. As with other pension reforms, I expect the necessary counterweight and the necessary delaying manoeuvres, especially because of COCOF. However, you will have a very loyal and active partner at the N-VA to bring this reform to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u68	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the VRT reported that our country is participating in a secret operation by the Americans against Daesh. In concrete terms, Belgian soldiers would gather intelligence about IS fighters in Syria and Iraq as part of Operation Gallant Phoenix. Other countries participating in this operation such as France and the UK would, in addition to gathering information, also participate concretely in order to eliminate IS fighters, in order to kill them. Our country has been participating in the international coalition against Daesh for a long time. I believe that our country is making a very relevant and important contribution to this mission. I think that our country must do everything in its power to protect our country and our citizens from IS fighters, from foreign terrorist fighters. I think this should be very clear. I would like to emphasise that very strongly. Minister, have we shared information with countries that kill IS fighters? Were you aware of the objective of this operation Gallant Phoenix to take out IS fighters?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u69	Colleagues, if you ask me whether we are fighting with an international coalition consisting of more than 70 countries fighting against international terrorism and IS, then I say yes in full. If you're asking me if that was done from the air, I'll say yes. If you ask me whether this was done with support and training for both the Kurdish and Iraqi army in Iraq, then I say yes in full. If you ask me whether we are doing everything possible and within our legal capacity to cooperate in the search for information about the terrorist organisation IS, then I say yes in full. In that context, I can therefore be quite clear, ladies and gentlemen. The fight against IS is an international battle involving more than 70 countries. Seventy countries are working together to prevent what we were faced with here two years ago from repeating on that scale. In this context, it is our duty to use all possible means in the war against terrorism, because it is something that is directly threatening us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u70	Mr Minister, our country must, of course, take up its role in the fight against terrorism with all possible legitimate means. There's no question about that. I would like to add that foreign terrorist fighters are responsible for their own choices and actions by leaving for the front. There is absolutely no doubt about that. You know, however, as I do, Minister, that there is a note on this specific operation and an opinion from the Treasury, with information on its scope. I expect transparency and openness from you, not only in Parliament, but also for public opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u71	Minister, done with the pharaonic stations and more uniform and functional stations: that was one of the outstanding plans of your predecessor, Mrs Galant, in her 2015 strategic vision. In the meantime, we are more than two years later and the SNCB and Infrabel have completed and announced their long-awaited investment plans until 2022. These plans focus on a good infrastructure for the traveller, better access to the platforms and a better reception of the traveller. That is absolutely necessary because having passengers from a low, unpaved platform crumble on a train is no longer of this time. This makes the accessibility of our trains more difficult and also leads to a lot of delays. Is there any clarity about the platform height that will apply as standard: 55 or 76 centimeters? Can you say something specific about that? We also read in the plans, to the great satisfaction of my group, that our stations must be transformed into hotspots, into places to be. They have enormous potential: more than 1 million passengers pass through the major stations on a monthly basis. This is more than in large shopping centers and so our stations should become more than just train departures and departures. More shops, supermarkets, florists, laundries and so on need to be developed so that travellers can make use of these opportunities. In the committee in February 2017, we adopted a resolution, including with our colleagues from the N-VA, on train points, other sales channels for tickets and the possibility of allowing and granting concessions in our small stations, so that there is a greater offer. Minister, will you and private and local partners take the initiative to turn our large and small stations into real hotspots?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the government agreement in principle concerns the harmonised multi-annual investment plan (MIP) for Infrabel and SNCB for the years 2018-2020 and a harmonised strategic MIP for long-term investments. The railway companies will present the plans in more detail. As part of the Strategic MIP, we have released an envelope of €1 billion for larger projects, spread over the period 2018-2031. This makes it possible to restart and complete the GEN works, but also to start the works identified by the Regions as a priority for capacity expansion. This is what this is about. This concerns the finalization of the ER as originally planned. Furthermore, it concerns the creation of infrastructure priority for the Regions and receiving additional regional funding of EUR 100 million for the Flemish Region and EUR 32.8 million for the Walloon Region and the realisation of other projects of a priority nature with only federal funding, such as several port investments. For both categories of investment not covered by the GEN, the federal government contributes a total of EUR 459,2 million. Infrabel is currently carrying out a study to accurately assess the needs to maintain the rail network in the future and will be able to provide a precise estimate of the necessary resources from 2020 only after this exercise. SNCB has already made progress in estimating its needs for 2020 to 2022, but harmonisation of its prospects with that of Infrabel will only take place later. These are the broad lines. SNCB's multi-annual investment plan amounts to EUR 1 758 million, of which EUR 1 076 million is reserved for the purchase and modernisation of rolling stock. The budget to be spent on stations and stops is 294 million euros. There are no new projects for large-scale stations. A total of EUR 79 million is reserved in the MIP for increasing platforms to 76 cm.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer with many figures. The investment plans have been a long wait, Minister. It is high time that the implementation was started. You said in connection with the platforms that the height will be 76 centimeters. For the rest, I have noted that we will be given a detailed explanation in committee next week. What is particularly important to us is that the focus should be on improving accessibility and modernising our stations, in the interests of our so many travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u74	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u76	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2917/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2917/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u80	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2395: Valerie Van Peel, Nathalie Muylle, Els Van Hoof, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Damien Thiéry - 49: Catherine Fonck - 1917: Vincent Van Quickenborne, Ine Somers, Dirk Janssens, Nele Lijnen - 2445: Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Willy Demeyer, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Daniel Senesael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u82	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had very good legislation on organ donation in this country since 1986. In terms of the number of organ donors, therefore, we score very well when we look at the European dimension. Of course, the opt-out system is at the root of this. This actually means that everyone in this country is a donor, except for those who expressly oppose it. For the sake of clarity, this is a principle which no one wants to touch from the initiators. On the contrary, it is seen that this principle is finally being adopted in Europe. The Netherlands recently did. Yet today there are about 1 700 people on the waiting lists for organ transplants. For many, it is a matter of life or death. It is therefore our duty, our duty and, where possible, to improve the situation. Although the 2007 Law has ensured that the explicit consent of family members is no longer required, if there is no explicit registration as a donor, these will be heard by the transplant coordinator before organ removal can be carried out. Making a well-informed decision at such an emotional moment, just after the death of a dear neighbor, is, of course, extremely difficult, and that, unfortunately, still leads to the family being opposed in about 15% of the cases. For ethical reasons, in spite of the 2007 law amendment, doctors are not going to remove organs. This is very understandable, but it shows that making this dilemma subject to prior discussion can improve the number of organ donations in this country. That must remain our ambition: to do even better despite the good grades, to convince more people that there is nothing more beautiful than to save other lives at the moment when it stops for itself. Remember that one donor can save up to eight lives. So one can really make a difference. The number of registered donors today is around 450 000. Of these, there are about 265 000 positive expressions of will. Today the law stipulates that the declaration of will, positive or negative, can only be done through the town hall. That is a problem, because for many people that is a high threshold. Not everyone is aware of it. Moreover, a study showed that a lot of officials who have to do the registration are not always well informed themselves. For example, there was the wrong assumption among many that registration can only be made for people who would object. In the preparation of this draft law, it was considered how to attract more people with a positive declaration of will, with attention to the opt-out system. Of course, we can't touch that. Who better than the general practitioner can play a crucial role in this? A study by the University of Antwerp shows that they are themselves asking parties and see enormous added value in this. This proposal ensures that the general practitioner is involved and that he can enter into the debate on request or on his own initiative and involve the family, so that he is able to proceed immediately to the registration as a donor when the patient makes a decision. It is our hope that this proposal will contribute to a further and strong increase. Following the hearings in the committee, there appeared to be broad support, both for transplant coordinators, professors, doctors and colleagues. It was also suggested to make it possible for people to register themselves via the eID, i.e. via the Internet. In principle, that is a perfect addition to the conversation that can take place with the doctor, so that people at home can still think about the decision, before getting the registration in order. That is why it was added to the proposal at the last minute. However, the competent cabinet, Minister De Block, has been asked to specify in the KB in which this legislative amendment needs to be further worked out in sufficient detail how access for people who want to do it themselves will be regulated. This is, of course, essential in order to avoid any opposition. People should continue to make an informed decision, even if they have not had an interview with a doctor. There must be a sufficient basis for information before registration can be made. I would like to thank the committee's colleagues for their constructive cooperation on this dossier. I would also like to ask all the Members present, and even those who are not here, to register as soon as possible. We have all become politicians to change things in this life. With this one can really save lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on my part and on behalf of my group, I would like to say how pleased we are with the work that has been done in committee in relation to this bill which, in the end, was long overdue. Some will say that we are not yet far enough in the process, but I think there is a will to move things forward as we usually do. In this case, I sincerely believe that the most important thing is to keep in mind that the original philosophy of organ donation has not been touched. Why? Because, simply, when it comes to organ donation, Belgium can be described as an example at European level, even if, of course, we can always do better. When I say an example, this means that at present there are 30.6 donors per million inhabitants in Belgium, which is the second largest European country behind Croatia. Thirty donors per million inhabitants, of course, that's not much. This means that basically there is an information problem. Or some patients or donors are afraid to register with the municipal administration. It is also important to note that in some municipal administrations there is not always a specific dedicated service which allows the transmission of information or demand in a confined manner, i.e. in complete discretion. The amendment proposed today will allow us to consider ways other than the declaration at the municipal level. It will now be possible to make this statement with the attending physician and also through the electronic system (a personal approach). These are two truly fundamental advances that also respond to a request from the experts who have been consulted, health-care providers, associations and individuals who have been confronted with the problem. In the end, when a patient or deceased person has not previously consented to organ donation, the procedure, which is not easy, must be done by the caregiver vis-à-vis the family. The family, having not known the will of the deceased during his lifetime, is in a state of embarrassment. Therefore, in 15 to 20 per cent of cases, the family refused to donate organs, although the deceased might have been in favour but had not taken the necessary steps, for lack of information. Here, I have summarized the willingness we had in this bill to move forward, to allow and encourage all citizens to practice organ donation and, above all, to make a declaration of organ donation prior to their death.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both Mrs Van Peel and Mr Thiéry have clearly outlined the context of the proposal and have shown the need for more donors in our country on the basis of figures. So we will certainly remain the questioning party in that regard. I would like to thank the committee members and the chairman in particular. They have helped us in the committee meetings to make a single global proposal on the basis of various initiatives, often with a different approach. We were convinced that a political discourse in this area was out of the question and shared a common objective, namely to register as a donor as many inhabitants as possible in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is a step forward. There are now three gateways to donorship. First of all, you can still do that through the GP. Secondly, there is self-registration online and, thirdly, there is registration through the municipal administration. My party believes it is important that the general practitioner should have a role to play. After all, on the one hand, many questions remain with the public about donorship. On the other hand, the formatting of such a dossier takes a few months, which means that a lot of questions are asked. Ignorance in the area of legislation on organ registration and organ donation is still very high. We are convinced that the general practitioner can play an important role in informing. He knows the patient and his family and his surroundings. It is therefore important that donorship can be included in the medical record. As Mrs Van Peel has already mentioned, a motivated, good registration should better prevent the opt-out. After the number of people who unsubscribe from the system or indicate that they do not want to be a donor has remained stable for years, in 2017 it will increase again by about 1% to just over 13 % or almost two hundred thousand people, who deliberately indicate that they do not want to be a donor. Family refusals are also increasing. That worries me. The combination of exit and family refusal must certainly not cause us to get into trouble and get fewer registrations and donors. Belgium is doing very well today. Although we in the European Member States are in the first place for most of the parameters, the waiting list for kidney transplants, among other things, is still very long today. There are over 800 people on the waiting list to get a new kidney. Parliament must therefore do everything in its power to ensure that the number of donations in our country continues to increase. We are convinced that donorship through the three gateways is better motivated and registered. I would like to thank the Minister's office, even though no one is present. In any case, there is still some work to be done on the linking of data through the National Register and the medical file. As far as municipal registration is concerned, I refer to the legitimate concerns of Mr Van Quickenborne. I urge the Minister, her cabinet and her administration to establish the data link as soon as possible so that we can register through the three gateways. Thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor as co-author of the proposal. In addition, we are making the existing liberal legislation even more liberal in this respect. Let me clarify that. Of course, I am not talking about liberal in the sense of the liberal party, but about freedom. After Spain in 1979, Belgium was the second country in Europe, in 1986, where a system was introduced whereby every Belgian was supposed to be an organ donor, unless he or she objects. It is remarkable that there is very little discussion about it in our country. I do not know what the Communists will do at the time of the vote, because that can never be predicted in our country. Most of the time, they vote against it. I think that we will probably adopt the proposal with great unanimity later, while there was a very intense debate in the Netherlands a few weeks ago. I think that the Belgian vision reached it with one voice. The Netherlands is much more critical when it comes to organ donation. Peter Vandermeersch, you may know, former journalist and editor-in-chief at De Standaard, currently at NRC, wrote in a column in De Standaard that he would rather not want to and would rather decide for himself. It is remarkable that we in our country keep alive this liberal philosophy tradition. I am very pleased to see that, just as I have read that Minister of State Miet Smet wants to die in a dignified manner. We are still reaching a broader consensus in our country, and that is a good step forward. It is not that one dossier has to do with another, but it is also possible to discuss philosophy in a parliament. As Mr Muylle said, we are among the best in the class in Europe. However, we do have a waiting list of more than a thousand patients, so more needs to be done. Citizens do not know enough that, if they are spontaneous organ donors, the family can still resist. If the doctor does not have an explicit confirmation, he should always ask the family if he has any objection to organs being removed. Only with an explicit registration can people possibly resist resistance. That is why people have to take another step. So far, it's only been possible at the town hall. Many of you may accumulate and also exercise a local mandate. Sometimes a cumulative has an advantage, too, I think. Well, that way you can find out about the registrations. There are only 250 registered in Bruges. In Kortrijk we also had low figures for a long time. We then took a number of actions, which can be inspiring. We now have 2 500 registered persons, which per capita is one of the best figures in the country, even though there are only 2 500 out of a total population of 76 000, which is still a very low figure. The idea of the proposal was to ensure that a donor could register through several channels. The registration via the canal of the general practitioners was already explained by colleagues Van Peel and Muylle. We have chosen a third channel, that of self-registration. This should be possible in two ways: either directly at Orgadon or via the municipality's digital window. Most cities and municipalities, especially in Flanders, have a digital window, which works well. You can request documents via that window and receive them digitally immediately. That window could be given an additional function so that donors can register. We have already said in committee that this must be done in full awareness. In other words, people need to know what they're doing. The system can be applied in the two directions, to confirm that one is an organ donor or to unsubscribe. Colleagues, a donor who registers can save up to eight lives. The step people are taking in this area is therefore a very important step. We will support the bill later. I am very curious whether this proposal will be adopted unanimously or whether someone will oppose it and vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u87	Mr President, I believe that Mrs van Peel has made a very good analysis of the current situation. Thanks to our progressive legislation, we are doing very well in Europe in terms of organ donation. I think we should be proud of that. This also applies to many progressive laws on ethical issues. What we find particularly favourable in this legislative proposal is that the registration through the GP creates a forum for preliminary discussion, in this case with the GP. Hopefully this will also lead to wider discussion in the family and the circle of friends, so that everyone knows that they want to be donors. After all, that is where things sometimes go wrong, as colleagues have already pointed out. In the event of sudden death, relatives or relatives make a different decision at a time of great grief or desperation. In my view, the proposal represents a very positive development and creates a good forum for the debate in society to move forward. We are a little concerned about self-registration through eID, even though we are in favour of it. After all, there is a risk of negative registration. That problem needs to be addressed through the government's RB. We ask for this method to be very precise and careful. In general, we fully support the proposal. We shall therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u88	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues, including Mrs Van Peel, who have tabled proposals on the facilitation of organ donation. That is a concern that we all share. The goal is that the donation of organs from dead people can save the lives of others. Of particular interest are the provisions that have been adopted to facilitate, but also to expand, the means by which the willingness to give access to organs after death can be confirmed. Indeed, the current provisions on which I had worked with the ministers at the time provided for an automatic agreement presumed and the impossibility of organ donation in the event of formal opposition. Unfortunately, the facts show that it is often difficult for family members, when the deceased has not made a statement in this regard, to agree. In doing so, doctors face a refusal to donate organs. The provisions of the bill that has been adopted will simplify the administrative procedure at the municipal level, allow registration via the eHealth platform, therefore via its computer, but also via the general practitioner, a formula that I very much believe in. In my view, the latter is important because it allows the doctor to talk to people while they are alive, but also to explain to family members what will happen and the positive impact of the measure. In my view, this really contributes to a positive positioning in this area and to the dissemination of this need. Many municipalities in Wallonia and Flanders, as well as the Walloon Region, have committed themselves to this mobilization, raising the awareness of citizens and taking advantage of the elections to distribute forms to citizens who come to vote so that they can exchange their views when they are in the queue. I hope that these steps will continue and that the federal Minister of Health will organize a real information campaign so that citizens know that it is now simple to register, to mark his will. It will also be necessary, and above all, for this information campaign to help persuade the interest of organ donation and to rid people of their fears.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, organ donation is a matter of particular interest to us. You know that we have tabled a whole series of texts on this matter, not just since this Parliament. Of course, we are very much in favour of facilitating all registration procedures. Facilitating these steps for donors can only be positive, since it also facilitates organ removal. The minister now has to make a series of royal orders. I hope that these will not be delayed, for without them this provision will not be applicable. If I draw your attention to the fact that the minister must quickly take these royal orders, it is because I find, always with regard to organ donations, that another royal decree has been waiting for more than two years, despite the promises, commitments and press releases of the minister saying that it has already been done, while there is still no royal decree taken at the Monitor. This one concerns the donation of organs during his lifetime. You say that Belgium is at the cutting edge and that its figures are good. Yet more than 1,200 patients are waiting for transplants. This is huge and, above all, it must be measured that these patients most often remain for years waiting for a transplant and, in the meantime, undergo particularly heavy treatments. Lifting all the barriers that exist today to the donation of organs in his lifetime would really allow us to have, tomorrow, a greater number of grafts available to patients. Donations of organs during his lifetime are made in Belgium but are still limited. There are indeed a lot of brakes because, when you are an organ donor, it costs. This costs not only in terms of medical expenses but also in terms of interruption of work, sometimes with the loss of employment. Such situations are proven. On the other hand, many other difficulties can arise on the insurance side. These are all proposals that we have put forward to remove the obstacles to organ donations in his lifetime. With regard to the medical expenses associated with the donation of organs by a living donor, the Minister has repeatedly announced, under my guidance, that she is taking a royal order in this regard. Despite his successive press releases, announcing that the thing was going to happen, even specifying the date, no royal decree has yet been taken. I hope that this decree will finally come out and that the other royal decrees, which will allow the implementation of the bill that we are voting today, will soon appear. My motion for a resolution (DOC 54 0049/001) was attached. I asked the president to dissociate her. And I turn to the chairman of the Health Committee. Indeed, we have planned to re-inscribe on the agenda not only this motion for a resolution, but also proposals for legislation concerning the donation of organs during his lifetime. We talked about it this week in committee. We'd like to be able to schedule them next week. I hope that, on the issue of organ donation, we can move forward together, majority and opposition, and that these proposals will not be put on the side simply because they come from the opposition. I hope that, on such an important subject as this, we will be committed to working together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u90	Mr President, as agreed, the proposals are on the agenda; you will receive this on Tuesday morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u91	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u92	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2395/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2395/7) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Law of 13 June 1986 on the removal and transplantation of organs as regards the possibility of registering as organ donor postmortem." The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law amending the Act of 13 June 1986 on the collection and transplantation of organs with regard to the possibility of registering as a donor of post-mortem organs". The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u93	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u94	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 372: Leen Dierick, Veerle Heeren, Nahima Lanjri, Franky Demon - 376: Leen Dierick, Nahima Lanjri, Franky Demon - 621: Vanessa Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u95	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Eric Thiébaut, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, decades ago, cameras were used exclusively for television recordings, for filming on pellet, for video footage on VHS tapes, and photos were taken on an analogue camera. In the meantime, however, technology is progressing as a train. Now about three quarters of the population have one or more devices that not only allow phone calls, but also allow photos and videos to be taken that can be edited and distributed to a wide audience. Technological progress will not stop now either. However, there is also a downside. The world is made up not only of people who have purely good intentions, but also of people with sometimes bad intentions and criminals. They also use that technology. Our police and security services sometimes have to fight with unequal means, including through inappropriate or outdated legislation or overly strict rules, for example in relation to privacy. Since 2001, the government has only used flash cameras to record speed violations or to make findings related to driving through the red light. The camera law is a fairly recent law from 2007, but due to the rapid technological evolution and the opportunity and the desirability to use new technology effectively, that law had to be amended several times, especially in 2009, in 2012, in 2014 and in 2016. Especially with regard to mobile cameras, the use was still too restrictive and required a little too much administrative work. In the long term, this was unworkable and no longer transparent, mainly for the police, but also for private security companies, internal security services and intelligence and security services. In 2013, Professor De Hert argued about this. I quote: "Because the use of smart cameras is not really regulated by the 2007 camera legislation, they all operate in a grey zone today. It would have made more sense to amend the legislation first and then to put those cameras into operation. Each lawyer knows that privacy limiting technologies of the type ANPR require a legal basis and that this legislation should indicate in some detail when those technologies may be used, by whom, for what purposes and what citizens' rights are." Our group's position on this is clear. Today's unprecedented opportunities must not be missed to protect public space and to identify infringements. I'll take the ANPR cameras as an example. Flemish minister Ben Weyts already announced in March 2016 that the Agency for Roads and Traffic in Flanders had already installed 147 cameras with license plate recognition on motorways and 326 on regional roads. There were six different types of ANPR cameras from the Agency Roads and Traffic: Type 1 was used solely for monitoring traffic flows, Type 2 was used for the so-called "weigh in motion', in which trucks are already weighed on the highway, Type 3 was used to view the distance between trucks, Type 4 was used for route checks, Type 5 was used to control the mileage charge for trucks. The figures on police area cameras are not fully up-to-date. I requested them from the Minister: on 31 December 2016, the local police zones had 589 fixed ANPR cameras and 133 mobile ANPR cameras. The present draft law unravels that and provides a flexible and comprehensive framework that does not always require the law to be amended after every new technological update. In addition, provisions of specific laws are incorporated, so that it is also clear what is applicable to public administrations, police services, security and intelligence services, private surveillance companies and internal surveillance services. The bill has four parts. A first part about the police cameras is taken out of the camera law of 2007 and is now regulated in the law on police office. The second part concerns the modernisation of the existing camera law; the third part concerns the amendment of the law of November 1998 so that intelligence and security services can also access images from police cameras; the fourth part, finally, concerns an adaptation of the very recent law of 2 October 2017 to private and special security in order to ensure consistency between that law and the changes that are now being made to the camera law and to the law of the police officer. The government has not gone ice in one night to come to this major and necessary legislative change. The Committee has also examined the matter in detail, all the more so because the use of fixed and mobile cameras may infringe privacy. A good balance between proper use and respect for privacy is necessary. That is why clear rules are violated in the law. I would like to point out that the drafting of this draft has already taken account of a significant change in GDPR privacy legislation imposed by the European authorities under the regulation that will enter into force from May. In addition to numerous written opinions, we also invited specialists in this field on 6 February 2018 and asked for their findings, including the Mayors' Council, the Permanent Committee of Local Police, the Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Privacy Commission, the COC, the BIM Committee and a professor. All the speakers were actually positive about the adjustments. They were pleased that their opinions on the draft were requested and that this was taken into account. They also stressed that it is positive that the camera law is split into a police hatch and a general hatch. However, some argued that this will of course always be the case if the law does not go far enough in terms of application. These include municipal use, such as camera use for the detection of certain breaches of the GAS legislation and the use of mobile cameras by other emergency services such as fire brigades. I quote a member of the Mayors' Council at the hearing: "The mayors are requesting parties to receive anonymous data from police services in order to improve their own services, of course within the framework of privacy." The bill allows police officers to use bodycams on patrol or during interventions. It was not easy in the past to get that settled. Now it's in the bill. In the past, it was only possible to do so in specific cases at mass events and after complex approvals. Both mayor of Antwerp Bart De Wever and late professor of criminology Brice De Ruyver, following the incident in Borgerhout in September 2017, in which there was discussion about the violence that would have been used against or by the police, expressed the desire that bodycams could be applied quickly by the police. Brice De Ruyver literally said: "Ever more government interventions are called into question, especially if violence is used. If discussions arise, it is good that there is evidence and that it is not just word against word." The bill now stipulates that policemen can wear a bodycam visible and that they must warn people when they turn the device on. Another question was to provide the fire department with bodycams. This could help to train new firefighters or to provide assistance on the ground, for example to help locate victims. At that time, the Minister indicated that he was prepared to examine the possibilities, but appropriate in the specific legislation of the relief services and not in this legislation. The current draft law is mainly within the framework of public security and the fight against crime. This draft law gives the city council the power to give a positive opinion on the placing of cameras. It is also important that the administrative obstacle requiring prior approval by the Commission for the protection of privacy is no longer mandatory. However, data controllers should keep a register to be made available to the Data Protection Authority and the police. Local authorities will also be able to use ANPR cameras, although in very limited circumstances. Our group is of course in favour of extending the ANPR networks strongly as a means of combating crime and terrorism, but also against many other offences. We are therefore pleased that this draft law makes it possible to establish a national ANPR network. The government has previously announced that there would be a thousand new ANPR cameras at some 300 locations, but we are particularly pleased that we have also thought about making other technologies, such as facial recognition, possible in the future and combining these ANPR cameras with, for example, path control. From this point of view, I also referred to the investments carried out by the Agency for Roads and Traffic in the Flemish Region. A long process has preceded the draft law. Over the last few years, several written and oral questions on parts of this new legislation have been addressed to the government. The attacks of 22 March 2016 also provided an additional perspective, which included additional aspects. Finally, there was also the wide survey, which led to several text adjustments. Our group is satisfied with the result, but also with the way in which we have organized the additional hearings in committee, which have given us a deeper insight into the matter and the debate, in which the Minister has answered the many questions very extensively. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised, the N-VA Group will fully support this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u97	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ten years ago we adopted a specific law regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras. This law of 2007, which currently governs the matter, has already undergone several adaptations: in 2009, 2012, 2014 and again in 2016. A rigorous legislative framework is obviously essential to ensure the right balance between the work of control, protection, investigation, and respect for privacy. Today, surveillance by video protection, whether visible or invisible, intelligent or not, has proven its worth. Undeniably. Some just realized it earlier than others. It is of course necessary to adapt the legal framework to technological developments, to anticipate it if possible in order to accompany the public authority and all the actors involved in prevention and security in their fight against crime and their fight against incivilities. Our group has reminded the committee of the two fundamental aspects: the right balance between security requirements and respect for privacy, and the need for effective use of video protection systems. We have heard in committee the opinion of the College of Prosecutors General and the reminder of the four principles related to the scope of privacy: proportionality, subsidiarity, the degree of precision of the cases authorised and the control by an independent, impartial body, before which a contradictory debate may take place. This is in order to minimize possible breaches of privacy. In this respect, the interconnection of data banks makes it possible to use the data intelligently while leaving them in their natural environment, i.e. without copying them. This is essential, as is ensuring that correlations can only be implemented once the necessary framework has been established. In addition, the issue of the efficiency of the operation of systems and technologies is equally crucial. It is necessary to foresee the use of systems by different security actors and at different institutional levels. Specifically, the project specifically extends the scope of the cameras to incivilities through the problem of communal administrative sanctions. In this regard, we have heard from the Federal Police Council and the Federal Council of Mayors. Minister, their views must also be taken into account. The empowerment of certain public officials or public undertakings such as public transport companies is an important point of efficiency. The role of the peacekeepers is also an important point of effectiveness, and here, an element to be clarified. Mr. Minister of the Interior, this project is making a positive change in the delicate issue of video surveillance. While there are still elements to be clarified, we consider that, as it stands, parliamentary work has been very constructive. We know that you are prepared to respond to the various points of attention that remain to be clarified in the course of law enforcement. Today, this project is very simply aimed at achieving the government's objectives to focus our police forces on their protection work and their presence on the ground, in public spaces. This project also meets the objectives, which you have already mentioned in your note of general policy, modernization and adaptation to the technological changes that our police expect. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u98	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are now eleven years later, on the subject of the camera law of 2007. In eleven years, of course, there is a lot happening, especially in the field of technology and the processing of footage, where there is a constant evolution. I am convinced that in the next few years the legislation will be amended, not because the present legislative work is not good, but because of technological progress. This creates more and more possibilities with regard to the use of cameras, such as the intelligent cameras. Moreover, these instruments are getting smaller and smaller, so it is not obvious for the legislator to create a legislative framework that is able to cope with the changes without the need to change the law. As colleagues have already pointed out, the use of CCTV by police forces, both administrative and judicial, has become more important. The debate on administrative enforcement is currently taking place, and that is where the camera story is also being discussed. We must also recognise that police services have a specific task and that camera images are beginning to form part of their instruments. Minister, I live in a region where many ANPR cameras have been installed in recent years, under the impetus of our governor. Many mayors, including myself, were encouraged to invest in ANPR cameras for our police zones. Over the past two years, it appears that being a part of a larger network is a huge tool for our police officers, for the detective work, to be able to tackle crime. So the results are there. We are therefore pleased that this system is being extended in our country. Eventually, our region is part of a larger whole. We are satisfied with the present design, which aims to adapt the legal framework in order to regulate surveillance cameras. The draft provides for adjustments, inter alia, to bring the whole thing into line with the European Data Protection Regulation, and colleagues have not yet talked about this, if I have listened carefully. Its implementation is imminent: 6 May, if I am not mistaken. That will bring about a change for all of us. For example, account will also have to be taken of technological developments as well as the concept of intelligent cameras, which is now being introduced into the regulatory framework. As mentioned earlier, the draft also involves a change to the law on the police officer. From now on, the collection of data on the basis of cameras, but also the storage and, above all, the processing of data or the use of the bodycams by the police will be subject to a specific regulation in the context of the processing of data by the police. This also means that the necessary control bodies, which already apply to other data processing dates, can monitor such data, which is not insignificant. The design also regulates a point that we believe is important, in particular the use of footage from police cameras in real time. In the context of a more integrated data sharing between security services and intelligence services, this is a huge step forward. In this context, I would like to stress that we must make every effort to create a genuine safety crossroads bank, to which all the intelligence services involved, as well as the security services, can be connected, so that the best possible information sharing is possible, obviously within a framework of checks-and-balances. The history and stories we have experienced in our country in the past prove that the exchange of information is crucial. This is an important draft for the legislator but also for all mayors and for all those who have local responsibility in our country. In that sense, the hearing was quite interesting, as was the presentation of the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities, in which the mayors and especially the working group within the VVSG asked for more access to the images. I am convinced that there is still a way to go in this area and that the debate on this issue needs to be conducted. If we want to make this possible, the question arises as to what conditions it is possible to obtain the images. Also the use of bodycams by the staff of the fire department seems to us to be a useful piste to investigate. However, we have also made agreements. We have passed the decree without amendment from the majority because we are convinced that the interpretation and the question of the local level must be thoroughly discussed, taking into account all existing legislation. Our group will be delighted to approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u99	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group will support the text today. Indeed, it aims to enable both police forces and public authorities - in particular municipalities - to evolve within a legislative framework more in line with technological developments in the field of surveillance by camera. In this sense, it is useful and even necessary. We are well aware of the importance of these mechanisms in combating crime, but we are also aware of the limitations, as shown by the reverse of (...) and the importance of beacons to protect the privacy of citizens. In my view, two elements remain inadequately framed or uncertain. The first element is the use of bodycams by the police - an already old debate since it led the Committee on the Interior at the end of the previous legislature - and in this area two points need to be stressed. 1. The effectiveness of these devices is highly questionable, as can be seen from studies carried out by an American university. They do not allow a more objective view of conflict situations, contrary to what its defenders claim. On the other hand, the visible or non-visible nature remains subject to bail and their implementation could pose problems, both for the citizens and for the police themselves. 2. The cost of these aircraft and the investment capacity of the areas pose the risk of reinforcing the idea of two-speed security, particularly in a context where local areas are getting less and less support from the federal government. I turn to the second element: the supervisory body in charge of monitoring future technical databases. We interviewed the heads of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy and those of the Police Information Review Body (COC) responsible for monitoring technical data tapes. I confess that their observations, however positive, did not give me the impression that the project, despite its qualities, offered all the guarantees of a truly effective control in this field. There is no doubt that the Privacy Commission will be questioned as to the appropriateness of retention periods. Are they not too long in the light of European case law in this area? This remains a point of attention and it will be up to Parliament to carry out an evaluation of the controls and the actual strike force of the COC, a young body and still seeking its means of action for the tasks entrusted to it. In this context, the loss of administrative support to the Privacy Commission must certainly attract our full attention as to the appropriate solutions. It would be worrisome if, in an area like this, we were to entrust oversight tasks to a body that would not have the means to exercise them. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these reasons will justify my abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment to the camera law is of course necessary, and I think we all agree on that. However, the present draft raises concerns. I shall confine myself to two important points in order not to repeat what has already been said in committee. First of all, this law defines the bodycam and allows it to be used. Intelligent software is also allowed together with its use. As always, its use will have to be linked to sound management, both technically and operationally. This obviously requires investment, both in people and in resources. The question now arises whether the bodycam will be used actively or passively. We believe it is necessary to develop a uniform policy for the whole of the integrated police force. In view of the fragmented financial situation and the capacity of the police areas, on the one hand, and of the federal police, on the other hand, we are afraid of once again fragmented management and a fragmented policy. This does not alter the fact that the bodycam can have added value. However, using or not using a bodycam can also cause a counter-response. Until now, the report of police officers has still been given great importance. Their report shall be accepted as proof of the contrary. Mr Vermeulen, the question is who can question the credibility of the police inspector when the bodycam is used. Assuming that the bodycam can be an evidence element providing an objective representation of the facts, the question arises as to how such objectivity can be guaranteed without bodycam. Cops who don't wear a bodycam might be questioned. This cannot be the intention at all. Let me give you a concrete example from a police zone. At a recent trade union meeting the question was asked whether police cars that are not equipped with a track-and-trace system because they do not have operational tasks might have something to hide. This is a question that was asked internally among policemen. In our opinion, there should be a better developed and uniform framework for the use of bodycams in all local areas and in federal police. Secondly, this bill does not provide sufficient guarantees with regard to privacy protection. It is understandable that data are kept for one year for the judicial police and, of course, the administrative police. The images are stored for both purposes. However, in its opinion, the Privacy Committee points out in particular that, in view of the principle of proportionality, there are no shorter retention periods that allow for the attainment of the objectives pursued. In addition, different databases will be linked to each other to detect, for example, movement patterns. These cases have a major impact on citizens' privacy. One actually makes the systems unnecessarily complex. This makes it impossible to maintain control of the data and to monitor privacy. To me, the proverb that one here wants to shoot a mosquito with a cannon seems to be in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u101	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Katja Gabriels has actually followed the draft in committee. However, since she became Arthur's mom yesterday, I'll take it from her. [[Applause]] Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the change in camera legislation has come a long way. Under the previous government there was also a bill on the table, but that did not reach the final reading. Now we've done it. A number of good suggestions emerged from the committee hearing. However, the agreement is that these suggestions are reserved for a later legislative initiative. Why is this bill very important to us and we fully support it? It translates the new European data protection legislation into our law. The entry into force is therefore in line with EU rules and the necessary transitional measures have been provided for. It has also become a technically neutral text which is not dependent on permanent technological developments, which is very important in such a sector. The protection of privacy is also an important element here. The balance between reality and the practical needs of the field was preserved. The fact that there are no heavy administrative obligations is an important point for us Liberals. As regards the sharing of information between police, intelligence and security services, the draft law allows the police to use the new technology within a clearly defined framework, with sufficient safeguards. It regulates the use of all types of cameras by the police. It provides for rules, both at the level of consent to the placement and use of the cameras and at the level of their use as such, or for the processing of the data collected. The national digital register that mentions the geolocation of the fixed cameras is an important added value. This will provide a visual cartographic image of all the fixed cameras used by our police forces. This design also gives more clarity, clarity and readability to the camera law. Finally, the design is intended not only to allow cameras to prevent, detect or detect crimes against persons or property, but also to prevent, detect or detect nuisances, check compliance with municipal regulations or maintain public order. So far, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the most important points for my group are to give full support to this draft. We shall therefore do so in the vote that will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u102	Mr President, I, in turn, will set out the elements discussed in committee on the text. For Ecolo-Groen, it was also important to have a clear legislative framework. As some colleagues have said, it is important to amend the "cameras" law, in particular to update it because it is known that technologies are changing rapidly. It therefore seemed important to us to have such provisions. As always in this type of topic, the analysis of environmentalists is guided by the need to balance public safety and the protection of individual freedoms. This is for us fundamental. That is why, in committee, I have often referred to the Commission's opinion on the protection of privacy by putting forward, for example, the question of the preservation of images, of data banks. Today we go up to a year, with the linking of data banks between them. This will enable the identification of behaviours and movements of natural persons. We asked if it was possible to consider a shorter period of time. I referred to the issue, also pointed out by the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, concerning sound recording. The same applies to the monitoring of workplaces. In this regard, you sent me back to your colleague, the Minister of Economy. Another important element is the use of bodycams. They are increasingly being used. Some police areas have already tested the system. For us, in terms of the use of images, the preservation of data, the access to such data, whether on the part of the police or the demonstrators, this subject is sensitive and must be particularly well framed. The apparatus itself is not problematic; it is the use of images and the framing of the preservation of these images which, for us, is important. It is true that, generally speaking, in the discussion of all these points, you have responded to some of them. You have indeed taken note of the opinion of the Privacy Commission. On some points, you join her, on others steps and you have justified. Other points in the text will be decided or, in any case, detailed by royal decrees. It is true that we do not benefit from full clarity on all these issues since, on some points, you do not go as far as the Privacy Commission and, on others, it is planned to settle them by royal decrees. Another element relates to a missed opportunity which I also told you about in committee and which concerns the ANPR cameras that will be used to frame the low-emission zones. As you know, many cities, such as Brussels, Antwerp and shortly Ghent, will have low-emission zones to improve, I hope, the air quality of our citizens and therefore their quality of life. This is a measure that we support as environmentalists. To control these low-emission areas, ANPR cameras are required. It is true that this text does not mention it and does not provide a framework for this. It is a regret that we also express. You referred me to regional decrees in your response in committee. Since then, I have contacted colleagues who are specialists in this field and who tell us that, indeed, we could move forward through decrees but that the ideal would be to do so at the federal level; otherwise, we must consult all the Regions. It may be easier, in any case in the opinion of several experts, to do so here within the framework of this law. This is a missed opportunity not to have been able to frame the use of ANPR cameras in the context of the low-emission zones that will be set up in the different regions. For all these elements, as I also told you in committee, my group will abstain. Indeed, if we agree to put a framework in place, we do not have all the guarantees in relation to all the points I wanted to put forward. That is why we abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u103	Minister, thank you for the ambitious bill to amend four laws, the most important of which are the so-called "cameras" and the Public Service Act. This text aims to expand the possibilities for municipalities and police services to install and use surveillance cameras. It also aims to provide for the ability of intelligence and security services to access police data. In view of the ever-increasing interference in the privacy of our citizens, it must be assessed whether the text strikes a balance between the response to the needs of the ground and the obligation to protect the privacy of our citizens. We tend to respond favourably when we see that the text – which is the result of inter-cabinet meetings, which took place for a year and a half, and of consultations with the actors on the ground – has undergone major changes following the remarks made by the Privacy Commission, the Council of State and the College of Attorneys General. In addition, it also highlights the provisions of the European Regulation on the processing of personal data, which will apply from 25 May next. We regret, however, that the bill is not fully meeting its intended objective for two major reasons. First, the police intelligence supervisory authority is cruelly lacking sufficient resources to carry out its tasks properly. Given the significant extension of the prerogatives of the police services, it should be able to deal with complaints, to issue opinions, not only on legislative initiatives – which has not been done in this case – but also on the public, and to impose corrective measures (warning, rectification, erasure or limitation of treatment, temporary or definitive restriction of treatment or prohibition of treatment). However, already at the time of the discussions of the Data Protection Authority Act, the Privacy Commission noted that the Police Information Review Body was not in a position to carry out all its tasks. I refer you to Opinion 45/2016 of 3 August 2016. In short, you extend privacy intrusion capabilities without giving the supervisory authority sufficient resources. I would like to illustrate my remarks with the example of the central database on terrorism, which would still have serious oversight gaps. What is wrong with it is not erased, and more than 1,500 people in the security services have access to it. If the government does not wish to give itself the means of its policy, I invite the minister to entrust the control of police information to Committee P, which has sufficient staff to do so. Our second reserve, which is also fundamental, is the ability of the police to use non-visible surveillance cameras in its administrative police missions related to radicalism and terrorism. Of course, our group fully supports the fight against radicalism and terrorism. We are therefore concerned that, once again, the Minister's choice will weaken the work of the security services on the ground for three reasons. The first is that the intelligence and security services constitute the competent service, having the necessary experience to carry out upstream the collection of information where this proves useful. An additional link, i.e. the administrative police services, in the information chain should not be added to the risk of confusion and inefficiency. The second reason is that the excess of information in the head of the police services may feed "obesity infancy", which will result in the police being overloaded and will no longer be able to process the data correctly or to distinguish the bulk from the accessory. The third reason is that linking administrative observations to terrorism is a potential form of circumvention of the Law on Special Research Methods, as pointed out by the College of Attorneys General in its opinion of 26 October 2016. However, the conditions for the opening and exercise of special methods of intelligence are more stringent than those laid down in the Police Function Act. Therefore, it is essential to set benchmarks to avoid abuses and to preserve our democratic State. In short, Minister, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, this is an ambitious project. We recognize this and are pleased with it. However, my group and I regret that you have not taken all the necessary steps to complete this project. We believe that it is unbalanced because it intrusively extends the possibilities of using surveillance cameras, without accompanying these possibilities of sufficient guarantees. In the absence of sufficient guarantees, however, it should not be possible to drift towards a police state. We also deplore the rejection of the amendment that we proposed in committee. It consisted of evaluating the text after a period of two years of application. It was the addition of a 90th article, if I remember correctly. For all these reasons, my group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u104	Mr. Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed bill seeks to create a flexible legislative framework for the use of cameras. It focuses primarily on the use by the administrative and judicial police, but also includes some changes to the use by individuals and intelligence services. A finding by the Commission of Inquiry Attentats – a finding to which we fully agree – concerned the recognition of a problem of "obesity infancy", i.e. a problem linked to too much data and the impossibility of properly analysing them, thereby reducing the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism and organised crime. This is a problem resulting from the current doctrine of mass surveillance to which the government adheres. In our view, it is incomprehensible that this bill applies a generalization of mass surveillance by the police; that a government give the go-ahead to a whole series of data banks, new techniques at various levels, with various officials; that because of complex texts, there is now a lack of clarity on the instances that can operate and those that cannot. We are not at all certain that this will indeed lead to greater effectiveness against terrorism. What will happen above all is that the car journeys of all Belgians will be kept for a year. For the processing of ANPR camera data, ten million euros have been released in order to attract an additional 200 full-time equivalents. One might wonder whether this money could not be used more effectively elsewhere. The doctrine of mass surveillance is, moreover, very anti-democratic and violates the presumption of innocence. The ANPR cameras, whose use will be generalized through this bill, have again won – if I may say so – last year the public award in the context of the Big Brother Awards organized by the League of Human Rights. In this regard, the League noted: "The mass storage of each person's data for future research and prosecution is illegitimate, and the European Court of Justice at the beginning of this year ruled in an innovative judgment on data retention. This is indeed a reversal of a basic principle of the democratic rule of law. The authorities can violate someone's privacy only if there are reasonable suspicions of a concretely punishable act. Today, this principle is put upside down and anyone who moves becomes a potential suspect." At European level, with regard to the use of cameras, two new decisions will enter into force in May 2018: an ordinance on the use by individuals and businesses and a directive for police services. These decisions place more emphasis on data protection and the limitation of privacy breaches. On the other hand, this bill is in exactly the opposite direction. The policy that leads to more than Big Brother also runs counter to the decisions taken in this regard in recent years by the Belgian Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice, among other things with regard to the annulment of the Data Retention Act. For the time being, some proceedings are still under way in the Belgian Constitutional Court, in which recent laws are being challenged precisely because of the breaches of privacy. If it had any respect for democracy, the government might better wait for the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In concrete terms, this bill will not only increase the number of data stored, but also provide for a longer retention of this data. The retention period is indeed extended from one month to twelve. Despite the clarification that after a month the prosecutor's agreement will be necessary, the Data Protection Authority has already indicated that this rule will probably not survive the confrontation with the Constitutional Court and the European Convention on Human Rights. It is also worrying that monitoring of the use of cameras by the police will be granted to the recently established Police Information Review Body (PIB). The Board itself agreed that it could not make any assessment of the impact that such data control would have on the workload, especially since the administrative support of the Data Protection Authority would fall. It is already highly unlikely that the Board will have the necessary resources. Ministers have simply said that an evaluation will be necessary. In committee, it was also said that the COC did not meet the requirements of the European General Data Protection Ordinance. It should be noted that, at present, the Board cannot provide any guarantees regarding the handling of complaints, the provision of advice to the public or the intervention against possible improper uses. Finally, I intend to express our doubts about two technical means that we want to consider as quickly as possible: bodycams to the police and the further development of intelligent cameras. For bodycams, it is clear that this does not offer any guarantee of objective rendering of police interventions, especially since it will always be the police who will decide when to use or not to use these bodycams or images. As for smart cameras, the Minister of the Interior is already dreaming – this can be more easily granted in the future – of being able to use them for facial recognition, sound recognition or acts. We have serious questions as to whether this is in line with the principle of proportionality in terms of privacy. For all these reasons, colleagues, the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would also like to speak on behalf of the two other colleagues who tabled the draft bill, both the majority and opposition parties present in committee for the adult debate we have had on this draft. When you want to regulate the use of cameras, there is always a need for a balance between respect for privacy and private life, on the one hand, and security, on the other. It's a continuous balancing exercise. I think it is normal for the debate to be about that. Finding the balance between these two poles is the heart of the debate. As far as the specific questions are concerned, I think that most of the points have already been raised in committee. However, I still want to focus on two elements that deserve to be added. First, bodycam as evidence. We discussed it in committee, saying that it was not "the" proof. It's not the only evidence, it's an element in the file. I understand your concern, Mr Top, but in that sense it does not replace the police report or other elements in the file. It's coming up. It's a piece in the file and, of course, not the only evidence. I understand Mrs Ben Hamou's criticism: there is also a context for every action taken by the police. Sometimes the camera images do not reflect the context. That is why it cannot be "the" proof, but must be an element in the file. The second point I would like to emphasise is the debate on the low emission zones and the cameras that regulate access to them. You should know that this design is about surveillance cameras. The cameras that control access to the low-emission zones are not surveillance cameras. Access control to low-emission zones is a matter for the Regions and is therefore regulated by decree. It is clear that these decrees are also subject to the European GDPR, but that access control is not one of the competences of the Chamber, but one of the regions. I think I have responded to two new points, Mr President. For the rest, I would like to refer to the debate in committee and thank everyone who has made it possible to implement this important draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u106	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u107	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2855/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2855/5) The draft law contains 89 articles. The bill has 89 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u108	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u109	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u110	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Inez De Coninck, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten, Luk Van Biesen, Karin Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Gabriëls, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u112	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2620/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2620/5) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u114	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u115	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1939/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1939/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u116	Mr President, the proposal for a resolution was tabled in June 2016 and was discussed in the Committee on the Interior on 20 February 2018. The starting point is based on the Constitution, which states that the German language area is a full state, but that the German language has no equivalent status to the other official country languages. The complainant's concern is to do something about this. Everyone agreed to the principle. Only sometimes a question was asked about the financial feasibility. However, the answer showed that it is not intended to put the public authorities at short notice on costs. Finally, the recitals and recommendations of the resolution were adopted unanimously at the committee meeting of 20 February 2018. Zum Abschluss wünsche ich unsere geehrte Kollegin Frau Jadin zu gratulieren mit ihre Initiative. Danke schön.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u117	Vielen herzlichen Dank, Herr Präsident. Danke auch dem Berichterstatter für seine vorzügliche Zusammenfassung der relativ kurzen Debatten, die wir im Innenausschuss hatten. Ziel dieses Resolutionsvorschlages ist es in der Tat, die Förderung der deutschen Sprache auf allen Ebenen voranzutreiben. Es ist eben richtig gesagt worden: Artikel 4 des Grundgesetzes besagt, dass es vier Sprachgebiete gibt. Das deutsche Sprachgebiet ist eines davon. Deswegen muss diese Sprache auch auf allen Ebenen, wo Deutschsprachige einen Belang haben, respektiert werden. Das gilt sowohl für die Provinzebene, solange sie besteht, als auch für die Ebene der Region und die föderale Ebene. And here we are in the middle of the debate, and we are in the middle of the debate. Ich habe es eben gesagt, das Ziel ist nicht, wie es vielleicht von Einigen befürchtet wurde, hier eine Kostensexplosion zu verursachen, um wirklich jedes noch so kleine Gesetz oder jeden nor so kleinen ministerellen Erlass zu übersetzen и obwohl es eintlich grundsätzlich möglich wäre, dies einzufordern. Das Augenmerk soll vielmehr darauf were lying, dass es in unserem Land eine kleine Minderheit gibt, die Deutsch spricht, und die es auch beurs, ihre Dienstleistungen in ihrer Muttersprache zu erhalten. Nor did any of them fall herzlichen Dank an alle Mitglieder dieses Ausschusses, aber auch an dieses Plenum, so hoffe ich, für die Unterstützung dieses Resolutionsvorschlages, der es mir, aber auch vielen Kollegen möglich machen wird, auf eine gewissen Proaktivitat seitens der Mitglieder der Regierung zu pochen, was das Vorantreiben einiger Übersetzungen betrifft. Dirty revulsion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u118	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u119	Opschrift/Intutilated • 1 - Barbara Pas (1939/4) Overwegingen/Considers P(n), Q(n), R(n), S(n), T(n), U(n), V(n), W(n), X(n), Y(n), Z(n), Z/1(n), Z/2(n), Z/3(n), Z/4(n), Z/5(n), Z/6(n) • 2 - Barbara Pas (1939/4) Requests/Demandes 9(n), 10(n), 11(n), 12(n), 13(n) • 3 - Barbara Pas (1939/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u120	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u121	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 545: Stefaan Van Hecke, Georges Gilkinet, Meyrem Almaci, Jean-Marc Nollet, Muriel Gerkens, Kristof Calvo - 1054: Peter Vanvelthoven - 1434: Carina Van Cauter, Patrick Dewael, Sophie De Wit 2386: Stefaan Van Hecke, Marcel Cheron.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u122	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u123	Mr. Chairman, the bill is intended to correct several pieces of legislation, following rulings by the Constitutional Court. The most important of these concerns the criminal transaction. I have no doubt that each of the speakers in committee will wish to repeat his position in this debate. I will therefore refer to my written report for this aspect. For the rest, the text also aims at further corrections - but you have indicated this in introducing the bill - relating to confiscation, disclosure at the time of judicial information, criminal enforcement investigation, procedural compensation and other minor amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Judicial Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u124	Mr Minister, it was not clear to everyone at the first presentation of this draft law laying down various provisions on criminal law that the so-called buy-back law for tax fraudsters, which is also called the extended friendly settlement, is hidden in it. The present draft law is a mix-up that regulates all kinds of matters. The Minister now has a patent on that kind of potpourri laws. The draft amends several laws: the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Code and the Judicial Code. The text focuses inter alia on the right of inspection and investigation, mediation in criminal matters, confiscation, criminal investigations and judicial fees. The main stumbling block in the draft, at least for our group, is the repair of the famous buy-back law, which was destroyed by some ten recent judgments of the Constitutional Court. We can still understand the fact that the IRS and the Justice Department settle with the proverbial benefactor or baker who forgot to bring in his income. They shall still pay the amounts and fines due. However, the text also fixes tax white-collar crime, namely the friendly settlement for large tax fraudsters. Our group therefore had very serious problems from the outset. In this respect, there is a need to strike a balance between the pursuit of correct taxation and the settlement of friendly arrangements for persons who forget to declare certain income. I repeat, Minister, that the balance in this area is very far from being achieved. That kind of tax fraud can easily be called fiscal crime. It should therefore not be eligible for friendly solutions. Such behaviour should only lead to criminal prosecutions and convictions. Mr Vanvelthoven's bill, which was linked to this draft law, therefore provided for the exclusion of serious tax fraud from the scope of the extended friendly settlement. My group is also supported by experts such as Michel Maus, who, in his written opinion, advocated legal baremas that determine the form of handling to be applied. The friendly settlement is hereby excluded for all fraud above EUR 1 million. The draft law sends the wrong message, Minister. Your majority says to the fraudsters that they can simply continue to cheat. If they run into trouble, but can spend a lot of money on expensive consultants and lawyers, they can do business with the Belgian State and regularize their situation through an amicable settlement. I am not saying anything new here when I say that a Brussels investigating judge is currently finished with his criminal record against the Swiss HSBC Private Bank. That bank is accused in our country of money laundering in favour of many thousands of Belgian customers. If nothing happens, our country will be in danger of losing hundreds of millions of euros in that file. Minister, the suspension of the friendly settlement system by the Constitutional Court's judgments meant that you were tied to your hands, as you said to everyone. You felt that work could not continue until the Kazachgate Committee of Inquiry, chaired by Mr Van der Maelen, had completed its work. It is true that the Committee of Inquiry is currently working on final recommendations on what went wrong in the past with the famous buy-back law. Suddenly you no longer need these recommendations and work super fast. We think that's a little weird. My colleague Dirk Van der Maelen forced hearings at the first discussion of the draft law. Those hearings were held last January. Not only did we hear that criminal lawmen are insisting on a repair, because the legal text is a kaduuk; as far as the principle of discourse is concerned, we have often been given confirmation of our view that the present draft really is not possible. I will not repeat in detail all our comments from committee meetings, but I would like to emphasise a flagrant element of the law and I hope you will listen carefully. The small fraudster must face his conviction in a public hearing in criminal proceedings. The mega-frauders can go through the possible process that is done to them, quietly and in all anonymity and with the representation of their expensive consultants in love and far from the cameras. We consider that not only unfair, but also unfair and unethical. You will understand that the credibility of the court and the administration of justice are seriously under threat. That was also the harsh remark made by the Supreme Court of Justice, not the first to be the best. In my speeches I have often spoken about the danger of class justice. That danger is re-emerging with the government. The time has come again: this draft law is another example of class justice. I wonder why I have to repeat that here, almost lonely in the desert. Mr Minister, I will conclude my speech. The proposed text repairs a lot of things; I refer to my list. But that the pay-off law for major tax crime is being repaired instead of being disposed of, our group cannot and cannot never live with it. We shall therefore vote against it in a very convincing and indignant manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u125	Mr Minister, today we are going to have another pot-pour straw, even if you are afraid to call it that, because soon the Roman X will have to be placed behind it and it will be very bad. The text responds to a number of judgments of the Constitutional Court on legal provisions to be repaired. Some of them were not problematic and have been waiting for correction for some time. It is not just a question of correcting the extended friendly settlement, which I will come back to later, but also of repairing other important provisions. So we must not stare blindly at this extended friendly settlement. For example, it concerns a correction in relation to the right of access to the criminal record. After all, the Constitutional Court saw a difference in terms of access to a criminal record in an investigation or a judicial investigation and found that victims seeking access to the criminal file in an investigation or a judicial investigation are treated unequally. I am well aware that it is not obvious to make that exercise. I know what you want to do in the longer term: you want one type of procedure and then all the differences between the two procedures are resolved immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u126	That's not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u127	You don't want that anymore? You wanted to do that, but you won't do that anymore. You do have a point when you say that there may be further comments from the Constitutional Court, because there are a number of differences between the two proceedings. The solution put forward today with regard to access to the file is an attempt to remedy the problem, but, as I said in committee, I am not very enthusiastic about this arrangement. After all, the possibility of access is not as simple in investigations as is proposed today. After all, the time limit given to the court to decide whether or not to allow access to the file may be up to almost five months. They are all maximum deadlines, of course, but we can assume that when such a request comes in, the parquet will not be treated as a priority and the deadline will be exhausted very often, which means that four to five months will have to be waited before a victim receives a decision on access to the file or not. I believe that the problem of equal treatment has still not been resolved. Who knows, the Constitutional Court will have to re-examine the issue and decide on the solution provided. In addition, a number of other provisions provide a solution to the problems of judicial compensation identified in the judgment of the Constitutional Court. We have also supported it. I would also like to thank the majority and the Minister for accepting some of the opposition's suggestions and amendments with a view to achieving the best possible settlement. In addition, there are the provisions on the extended friendly settlement in order to comply with the important judgment of the Constitutional Court which considered that the original extended friendly settlement was contrary to the Constitution. The essential error in that law was that the judge was ruled out on the merits. He could no longer rule on a case, once the court had reached an agreement with the defendants and a sum of money and overdue taxes had been paid. This meant that the case was no longer before the court, that the case was settled in love and that no publicity was given to it, with all the problems that had arisen. Actually, with the original buy-back law, which was approved a few years ago, the class justice was installed in our country. The large fraud files were handled in this way, while perpetrators of a very small crime were often excluded, the public prosecutor took no initiative or was not interested in an arrangement. The law mainly benefited the major fraudsters, perpetrators of serious socio-economic crimes. That wasn't right. Then it is not just about the Chodiev case, for which there was a lot of media interest. Many cases relating to the diamond or banking sector are or will be regulated by law. There were several problems, irrespective of the matter of principle. One could still enjoy it, even after previous severe convictions. It was possible even during the course of a judicial investigation, where the consent of the investigating judge was absolutely not required. It was still possible, after the case had been subpoenaed and a judge on the ground had already considered the case. It was even possible to appeal, but that possibility had already been reduced. Edoch, during the hearings, an Attorney General from Brussels came to argue that the arrangement should once again be possible in the degree of appeal. Fortunately, we did not go along with that. Every time that man comes to the committee, he has proposals, which always go further, because he never considers the proposed texts sufficient. We know him by now. But the majority also occasionally says that it has been enough and that it will not follow all the suggestions. Luckily, it is not going to go down again in that respect. The main problem raised by the Constitutional Court was that the judge could not make an assessment on the substance. It suggested that a proportionality test was necessary. Unfortunately, it did not say that the opportunity had to be tested. That would've been better. The amount of the fine is another problem. A number of experts have said that cases of very large tax fraud can lead to a relatively low fine, even with the maximum fines provided for in the legislation. Even though the amount seems large, it can be low in proportion. That problem will not be solved in the present design. We have therefore proposed another amendment which states that an amicable settlement is only possible if the crime is less than EUR 1 million, but unfortunately that was voted down in committee. Another problem concerns publicity and openness. The first friendly settlements in tax fraud cases were often very frustrating for citizens and the press because it was difficult to know exactly what decision had been taken and what the precise content of the friendly settlement was. I remember the Janssens case, the king of the road signs, in which a friendly settlement was also decided and in which the press in vain sought the fine that the defendants had to pay in order to buy off their trial. Of course you can't. If Justice installs such a mechanism, then there must be absolute transparency. This will now be remediable because the ruling will take place in a public hearing and all the information will be known. So there are still a number of problems left, Minister, in addition to the fundamental side of the matter. After all, we believe that the extension that has been made will be better removed. We do not, of course, have a problem with the friendly settlement of minor crimes, as we knew them up to five years ago, but the extension of the scope for regulating the cases of major tax fraud is illegal. We would better reverse the clock, but unfortunately there is no majority in Parliament for that. Apart from the principle of principle, a number of problems remain. After all, it is still possible to settle the matter after the subpoena and referral by the court and still in the event of a judicial investigation without the permission of the investigating judge. Another problem is that, on the substance, the judge can judge proportionality, but not opportunity. The problem of the amount of the fine has not been solved either. What are we supposed to do? The proponents argue that it is better in a case which, after years of research, threatens to age at some point, to choose eggs for its money. They would rather have a sum paid than a fine or a reasonable period of time. However, if we want to tackle the problem on the ground, we can do a number of things. We must invest in a stronger justice system, stop saving on justice and ensure that justice is strengthened. More experts in tax fraud should assist the Justice Department. A strong, specialised police force and investigators must be at the disposal of the prosecutors and investigators. There must also be more specialized prosecutors and judges on the ground in the area of major tax fraud. Complex procedural rules should also be simplified and abuses excluded. This can be done perfectly by carrying out a number of recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on the failed tax fraud of a few years ago, which is a modification of the small Franchimont, which is often abused to systematically postpone matters pending before the council chamber. There are, therefore, possibilities to tackle the problem on its merits and to avoid the risk of such heavy cases being re-established in the future. We would have invested better in this rather than reinvigorating the extended friendly settlement. For all these reasons, we will not be able to support the text before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u128	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the various provisions of this text, I will confine myself to the problem of the criminal transaction, the basis of which was invalidated by the Constitutional Court on the grounds that the judge did not have the means to verify the legality of having a judicial review of the proposed transactions. It was therefore appropriate to reconsider the text and rewrite it. Minister, the way we do this is not the most interesting; it is, in some respects, particularly appealing to the legislature. I should like to explain that this House has considered it necessary to set up a committee of inquiry into what has been called the Kazakhgate. This commission revolves around the implementation of the principle of criminal transaction. We hope that it will complete its work within a reasonable time. Like any good commission of inquiry, it will make recommendations to the legislator we are. Mr Minister, wisdom, on the one hand, and respect for Parliament, on the other, were to await the conclusions of this committee of inquiry. I do not understand how Members of Parliament who are members of the majority today agree to play this game when we know that tomorrow, probably, we will be made recommendations which will undoubtedly further encourage us to amend the texts relating to the criminal transaction. We have worked; this has been overturned by the Constitutional Court and we are reformulating principles that may not be the ones that will be retained by the commission of inquiry. We could have waited for the results of this and done a global and probably more collective work. On the substance of the criminal transaction, I have heard that those who have spoken so far are opposed to the principle. As far as my group is concerned, we have evolved on this issue. In fact, in the beginning, the criminal transaction is something that does not exist in our law. Innovation is sometimes considered dangerous or difficult. Secondly, the hearings which our committee has conducted have had the merit of explaining to us that within the judicial world, the principle of the transaction makes consensus. I hear some people say that the criminal transaction is reserved for the fringe of the most favoured litigants, to the detriment of those who will not benefit from it; that it is a two-tier justice; that X will be sentenced by a correctional court while Y will have the "chance" to benefit from a criminal transaction; that therefore there is a risk of discrimination. I find this statement nuanceless. Today, the criminal judge has at his disposal a range of so-called alternative penalties, which allow him to individualize the punishment according to the personality of the individual he has to judge. Even if the defendant has not been able to "benefit" from a criminal transaction, the judge can still be expected to apply an appropriate sanction. Personally, it does not bother me that big fraudsters, big companies are involved in the criminal transaction. The criminal transaction precisely avoids a form of impunity. It is well known that these large groups, those who can afford the best tax lawyers, for example, will use all the tricks and strings of procedure to eventually play the statute of limitations and result in no more decisions being made, or that the decision takes into account the exceedance of the reasonable time. The criminal transaction can therefore make sense. The real blasphemy I have in relation to this situation is that finally, if the judicial world finds this tool interesting and if we consider it a lesser evil, it is precisely because it is a lesser evil, because justice is no longer able to do its job. It is the judicial world's inability to deliver justice within a reasonable time. Who is responsible for this situation? It's not the judicial world alone. It is also the political world, the legislative power, that we are, and the executive power that you represent, Minister. My conclusion is that I prefer criminal transaction to criminal impunity because we would have played the watch and benefited from the statute of limitations. It is therefore more for the sake of efficiency and justice that we can accept the principle of transaction in our judicial system. Not to mention that it is an interesting way to recover criminal fines and recover objects or even property benefits. It's a tool that has its place in our system. However, this transaction must be framed to ensure that it is non-discriminatory, transparent and allows the citizen to believe that justice has done his or her job. Several amendments were tabled in committee. Some objections were accepted. It is gratifying that the judge's control has taken place, also because the ability to propose the criminal transaction in the degree of appeal has been abandoned. On the other hand, it is unacceptable - and that is why my group will abstain - that you extend the possibility of a criminal transaction beyond the rules of procedure. To date, this has been done in this context; without control of the judge, which is why the Court has annulled. There will be a review of the judge tomorrow, but I think we should have stayed within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. This seems to me to be more coherent, more timely and less discriminatory. This at least avoids a difference in treatment between persons subject to judicial information, those who are being prosecuted under an investigation, or those who will be referred to the correctional court. For, the most surprising thing in the system that you propose is this: while a trial is under way, the parties are referred to the correctional court before a judge; at some point in this procedure, the prosecutor can say "we stop everything" and propose to the parties a criminal transaction. It's intriguing and even staggering! A trial has begun and, during the course of the trial, the prosecutor, also a party to the criminal trial, asks to stop everything, to see the parties present and how to propose a criminal transaction. I think, as a lawyer, there's something wrong. It is a slippage that further accentuates the heavy tendency of the majority to entrust more and more powers to the prosecutor's office, whose independence is known to differ from that of the magistrate of the seat. It is therefore a strong trend that you reinforce by allowing the King's prosecutor to intervene and short-circuit an ongoing trial. It is ultimately reducing the power of the judge even though the Constitutional Court requested that the text be corrected to allow the judge to assess this transaction and the manner in which it had been negotiated and concluded. That is the essential element on the basis of which we will not vote on this text. On the other hand, and it seems to me that Mr. Van Hecke referred to this in his speech, Mr Delmulle, who also asked for consideration to be given to the possibility of requesting a criminal transaction at the level of the appeal, told us that the transaction, as applied today, sometimes did not fulfil its objective. As I have already said, we are dealing with large financial groups whose budgets are often far higher than those of the FPS that you are leading, Minister, and to whom the proposed fines are the Sansonnet rupee in relation to their turnover. These groups could laugh under cape of the proposals made to them. At least everyone had agreed to adapt the fines that could be imposed in the course of the criminal transaction. But while everyone agreed that this was a good idea, no one has yet found the way in which, from our texts, we could achieve, for example, that the fine represents a percentage of the turnover of the company concerned by the criminal transaction. In this case, we will no longer be charged with discrimination when the young person goes before the judge and the big one benefits from the criminal transaction. The amounts of the criminal transaction would be adapted to the contributory capacity of the fraudster since it is very regularly in the context of fraud that this transaction takes place. It is also something, minister, that we will have to put back on the job and for which we will have to find solutions. Finally – and I come back almost at the beginning of my presentation, when I said that Parliament was being ridiculed – the Panama Papers Committee, whose chairman was still here a few moments ago, had also made recommendations, regardless of the ongoing work of the Kazakhgate Committee. In particular, it requested that the reference amounts for fines in excess of the taxes evaded should be fixed on the basis of the fraud costs concerned, that the publicity of the transactions concluded should be organised at least indirectly and that the possibility of a transaction should be prohibited after the investigation had been completed. However, we do not find these recommendations in the bill, even though they were made available to the government and the majority and could have been incorporated. The prohibition on entering into a transaction after the completion of the investigation means that the previous procedure, i.e. referral to a magistrate, should be retained. Minister, we will not vote against the text, because some of its proposals are acceptable to us, but it has not been sufficiently thorough with regard to the transaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u129	Mr. Speaker, the vote on this bill is akin to a new, so-called pot-pourri bill that you have used to us, in that it amends both criminal and procedural provisions. These codes, which are essential to the functioning of our justice system, are becoming more and more dense in the expectation of a more readable and simpler overhaul, for the benefit of practitioners as well as of the litigants. This bill, on the other hand, stands out from your potpourri laws because it has, for once, received a little more support, for a number of its principles, from the judiciary, whose representatives have been heard in committee. It is true that you had an obligation, Mr Minister, to respond to decisions of the Constitutional Court, to apply European directives in Belgian law, whether it concerns confiscation, access to the file subject to information or investigation, effective remedy in the context of the criminal enforcement investigation, compensation for proceedings. So you had no choice but to move forward, in accordance with superior peremptory norms or court decisions that were binding on you. It was once again on the criminal transaction file that opinions were diverged and the experts' attention focused more specifically on article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. As has been pointed out, this amendment was made indispensable by the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2 June 2016, which held that the law of 14 April 2011 violated the right to a fair trial and the principles of equality, non-discrimination, access to justice, the independence of the judge and the separation of powers, in so far as it allowed the Public Prosecutor's Office and itself, after a criminal transaction had been concluded, to put an end to an action brought against a defendant even though the judge had not been able to effectively control that decision. It is therefore normal that the shadow of the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry charged with investigating the circumstances of the adoption of the Act of 14 April 2011 has surfaced on the consideration of this bill, as would be the case for any proposal to amend Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. Regardless of the conclusions of this committee of inquiry which it would have been good to wait for – I agree with my colleague Mr Brotcorne's comments – it is true that the citizen's confidence in the justice system was strongly shaken by this law of 14 April 2011, which was passed quickly, without consideration in the Justice Committee and, in particular, with regard to a system which is similar to the "buying" of an agreement to avoid a conviction handed down by a court, and this, without doubt, in disregard of the equality of citizens before the law. Unlike other speakers, I do not question the very principle of criminal transaction. Certainly not because it would be a necessary evil in the face of the material and procedural difficulties that judges have to face because of the inadequacy of the means available to them – this is not the right way to justify maintaining the principle of criminal transaction in our legislative arsenal – but because I believe that the criminal transaction, when properly marked on a legal level, is part of the need to have, for certain types of prosecution, the search for a negotiated justice, but not in all cases of assumptions of course. I consider, like the representatives of the French-speaking and German-speaking bar associations, that the transaction, in certain cases and under certain conditions, is an alternative to criminal proceedings. That is why I was hoping, for example, that this bill would be an opportunity to consider the need to consider the nature of the offence or the financial capacity of the perpetrator to determine whether or not the criminal transaction should apply. We could have taken advantage of this debate to include in the bill the principle of prohibiting criminal transactions for certain offences, particularly those arising out of financial crime. This would have allowed us to affirm our commitment to fair justice and our rejection of two-tiered justice that would favour the richest to the detriment of others. Minister, it was not your majority's choice, even though the Panama Papers Committee recommended (Recommendation No. 98bis) to withdraw serious tax fraud from cases where the criminal transaction may lead to the termination of criminal proceedings. I can therefore only regret that the majority government does not even respect the recommendations adopted – including by it – at the end of the work of the important Panama Papers Committee. Nevertheless, this bill makes certain corrections made necessary following the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2 June 2016 and which the pot-pourri II law discussed at the time did not take into account at the time, for lack of knowledge of the scope of this judgment. As a reminder, the 2016 law had effectively limited the scope of the criminal transaction by no longer allowing it once a final judgement had been handed down on the merits and by adding this type of decision to those which must appear on the extracts from the criminal record which are issued to prosecutors, investigating judges, judges and assessors of the courts for the enforcement of sentences. Thus, as the investigating judge Michel Claise rightly said, "to the criminal virginity that the criminal transaction allowed some to buy themselves" had been put to an end. This bill will therefore make more effective the review by the investigating or trial court of the reasons for the proposed transaction, whether in relation to the legal conditions, the author's free consent or the proportionality of the transaction with regard to the seriousness of the facts and the author's personality. On the other hand, some points were not clarified as they conditioned the response to the Constitutional Court's decision. There was no agreement on the need for the written nature of the reasons for the approval of the criminal transaction or on the publicity of the hearing of the investigating court when these proceedings relate to that type-approval. However, these requests were made by the Supreme Council of Justice but were rejected by the representatives of the College of Attorneys General. The proceedings also failed to provide for better information between the prosecutor's office and the investigating judge on a case for which the prosecutor's office intends to propose a criminal transaction. However, this was an essential request of the examining magistrates in view of the difficulties that may arise from a transaction that is envisaged at the same time as the duties of investigation. These are my observations with respect to the terms and conditions of the criminal transaction as contemplated in the bill. Furthermore, the bill is also interesting in that it extends criminal mediation to offences without victims, by allowing the King's prosecutor to offer the author medical treatment, training or public service work, even after the public action has been initiated. This is a positive measure in that it corresponds to a practice already prevalent in many judicial districts. It also goes in the direction of extending the range of sentences and individualizing them, which undoubtedly enhances the social utility of the sentence imposed. However, there too, a necessary clarification could not be obtained from the debates in committee. The Attorney-General and the Professional Union of the Judiciary have requested that the authorization of the House of Justice should not be provided for according to the author's domicile but according to the district of the competent prosecutor. The aim was to prevent the same case from being subjected to a double reading by the public prosecutor's offices and to ensure close cooperation between the local prosecutor's office and the local judicial office or to facilitate the smooth conduct of mediation with the victim, where there is one. If the committee has adopted amendments along the lines of the experts consulted, it has not taken account of this specific request. That is why, given these improvements, although sometimes positive but largely insufficient in terms of the criminal transaction, my group will not be able to support this text and will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u130	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken in committee to denounce the operation "The wider criminal transaction must be saved", contained in this draft. I shall therefore confine myself to summarizing my position. The main objection relates to the fact that the criminal transaction is either a deliberate measure to strengthen class justice for the benefit of the richest, or the acceptance of an increasingly deprived, increasingly defunded, justice to which every citizen does not have equal access. As my colleague Christian Brotcorne has guessed, in my view there are both and in both cases class justice is strengthened. We were told that the expanded criminal transaction would free up time for justice to focus on major issues. In practice, however, it is the great financial offenders who can buy their impunity. This amounts to institutionalizing financial crime. The representatives of the prosecutor's office who were heard in committee admitted this themselves: the amounts of the fines are derisory for the big companies and the richest. It must be said, however, that class justice is a very concrete phenomenon in our country. On the one hand, the apple thief is being prosecuted in court. In the so-called Calvados case - although it was somewhat modified apples, but the Calvados is still made of apples - a lawyer had asked for a criminal transaction for his client guilty of stealing a bottle of Calvados of 20 centilitres and a value of 4.45 euros, which he was denied. On the other hand, the diamond dealers of Omega Diamonds, the mafia Belgo-Kazakh Patokh Chodiev, the "serial "licencieur" and "serial fraudur" French Bernard Arnault, who builds his fortune notably by restructuring the Carrefour stores - he has just climbed to the fourth place worldwide of the greatest fortunes -, and a series of other great Belgian fortunes have obtained a criminal transaction without difficulty. This parliament even passed the initial law of criminal transaction especially for some of them. The present draft provides for the intervention of the judge, purely formal, since he is not entitled to carry out an opportune or fair check on the transaction concluded with the prosecutor's office. In this connection, it is clear that the draft did not really take into account the remarks made by the Constitutional Court. I believe that this project, which saves the extended criminal transaction, is truly unbudgetable, and that it clearly introduces class justice in our country. The PTB will not support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u131	Mr President, let me begin by thanking colleagues for their constructive remarks, in particular the CdH and Mr Maingain, for abstaining from this important draft law. I am a little surprised that some Members think it is ultra-raised if a judgment of the Constitutional Court is left behind for 21 months before the law is amended. I would have liked to have received recommendations from the committee, Mrs Lambrecht, you know that. I understand, however, that the committee would not make recommendations. That was clearly written to me by the President. I then blame myself for locking this draft through the Chamber in a strange way, after having received two lectures, Mr Van Hecke, I find a little strange. But if I'm acting weird, you can act weird too, let's agree. I would have hoped that you would not use that word, because it puts me in a light that I may not entirely deserve in this context. I've waited patiently. You will have to admit that waiting for the conclusions of the Kazachgate Committee will require some patience. As far as the substance of the case is concerned, I would like to say that there is a judge's check. That is an easy remark, Mr Brotcorne, but for the rest I thank you once again for your abstention. Ah, he's gone! Others made the remark, I will address those who are still present. Mr Van Hecke, I will say it in Dutch. Ah, I'm glad you came back, Mr. Brotcorne! You're saving my day! I said that I was very grateful for your abstention, but at the same time I am a little disappointed with your comment. Once again, it is said that I am on the side of the prosecution because the criminal transaction will still be possible after the rules of procedure and before the decision at first instance. Now you're going to look far! Like Mr. Van Hecke rightly pointed out that I did not give in to pressure. It was also the government's idea of no longer having criminal transactions in the appeal phase. We supported that position. Now the judge has to give an assessment and there is also publicity. We are no longer in secret: this matter has become completely public. Mr Van Hecke, I now come to your comment on the right of access. The experts have indeed proposed that only one further investigation should be carried out in the context of a possible major reform of criminal proceedings. I'm aware of that. Without a doubt, the experts have good reasons for doing so. As long as that is not the case, we will have to ask ourselves what happens to the right of access, as we have done now, and we will have to ask ourselves what happens to the additional investigation. Maybe next time we'll do that. It is quite possible for the Constitutional Court to state that acts of additional investigation will also be possible in the context of an investigation. This will all depend on whether Parliament is able to draw up a religion on how future criminal proceedings should look. In the meantime, we have tried to achieve a reasonable level playing field between the right of inspection in the context of the investigation and the right of inspection in the context of the judicial investigation, and I hope that this new alignment will find mercy in the eyes of the Constitutional Court. Finally, I come to the fine and its level. The Constitutional Court did not submit any observations on this matter. That is a repair, in which we did as little as possible. In any case, I am open to this in the context of a broader reform of criminal law and criminal proceedings. Mr President, that is all I wanted to say in reply to colleagues' questions, with repeated thanks for their dedication and attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u132	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u133	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2753/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2753/9) The draft law has 24 articles. The bill has 24 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u134	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u135	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u136	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr Johan Klaps, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u137	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2896. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2896/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2896. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. n. (Rgt 85, 4) (2896/3) The draft law contains 259 articles and an annex. The bill has 259 articles and an annex. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u138	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2897. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2897/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2897. The text adopted by the Committee serves as the basis for discussion. use. (Rgt 85, 4) (2897/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u139	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u140	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Inez De Coninck, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u141	Mr President, my speech will be brief. I will recall the reasons why I will abstain from voting on this text. We are obviously not opposed to the organisation of social elections at SNCB. On the other hand, I would like to make a few remarks about the tempo and how the project was brought in. First of all, I still wonder why we did not wait for 2020 to organise these social elections, since they will take place at that time in the private sector. Similarly, why was the text submitted hastily? It was when we arrived in plenary that we learned that we should vote on it as a matter of urgency. So we are being placed in such a situation that we must once again look at a project in haste. Next, SNCB itself will have to organise these elections within a difficult time frame. In addition, the budgetary resources for this purpose have not been committed. For all these reasons, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of our committee work, it had been said that we were asking for the urgency of this item to pass into plenary today. So it's done. As regards the budgetary means necessary for the organisation of social elections, all internal expenditure is covered by means specific to HR Rail. I'm talking about the organisation of the elections, not the election campaign. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the nominees will be appointed for a period of six years. The frequency will be the same with the private sector from 2024 onwards. All the reasons were, of course, explained in committee during the debate on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u143	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u144	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2939/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2939/4) The draft law contains 49 articles. The bill has 49 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u146	The conflicts of interest concern the draft law amending the law on the exercise of healthcare professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015 (document. Nos 2652/1 to 8) and the draft law relating to the failure to take into account services performed as an unappointed staff member for a public sector pension, amending the individual responsibility of the provincial and local authorities within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the rules on supplementary pensions, amending the procedures for financing the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities and for additional financing of the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities (document. Nos 2718/1 to 8). Conflicts of interest concern the bill amending the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015 (doc. Nos. 2652/1 to 8) and the Bill on the Non-Appropriation of Services as Unappointed Personnel in a Public Sector Pension, amending the individual accountability of provincial and local governments within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the regulation of supplementary pensions, amending the funding arrangements for the Consolidated Pension Fund of local and provincial governments and providing additional funding for the Consolidated Pension Fund of local and provincial governments (doc. Nos. 2718/1 to 8). By letters dated 7 March 2018, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health and the Minister for Pensions stated that: - the Consultation Committee, at its meeting of 7 March 2018, has dealt with the two conflicts of interest pursuant to Article 32, § 1quater, paragraph 1, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reform; - the Consultation Committee has established the absence of consensus. By letters dated March 7, 2018, the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health and the Minister of Pensions communicate that: - the Conciliation Committee dealt with the two conflicts of interest at its meeting on 7 March 2018, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 32(1) quater of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms; - the Consultation Committee noted the lack of consensus. Consequently, pursuant to Article 102 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber may, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 102 of the Rules of Procedure, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Accordingly, the House may, pursuant to Rule 102(5) of the Rules of Procedure, resume the proceedings for the consideration of such bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u147	Mr President, I am reacting with a little delay, but I find the procedure followed for draft No 2939, which has just been added, incredible. To my knowledge, we have not received any e-mail or text messages. I also don't see any mention on the House website – or I didn't look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u148	At the beginning of the sitting, we amended the Orders of the Day and added this bill. No member objected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u149	If that's the case, I've been inattentive. But I don't think I've been informed by SMS or e-mail about this change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u150	No, but when the plenary decides to add an item to the agenda, it must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u151	Perhaps the great formations were aware of this. We must decide on a vote on a text which we learn at the last minute that it is put on the agenda. If there was a way to inform us, I think that would still be more respectful of the democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u152	J'en prends acte, Monsieur Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u153	By letter dated 15 December 2017, the Prime Minister, in accordance with Article 11, second paragraph, of the Law of 27 November 2013 on the donations and allowances granted to members of the Royal Family as well as the transparency of the financing of the monarchy, communicated the decision adopted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2017. By letter of 15 December 2017, the Prime Minister, pursuant to section 11, paragraph 2, of the Act of 27 November 2013 concerning the endowments and allowances granted to members of the Royal Family and the transparency of the financing of the monarchy, communicated the decision taken by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2017. Article 11 of the Law of 27 November 2013 provides: "The members of the Royal Family who benefit from a donation referred to in Article 3 shall comply with the rules referred to in Chapter 4. If these provisions are not complied with, the Government may, after hearing the person concerned, propose to the Chamber of Representatives that a deduction be made to the amount granted to him or her referred to in Article 3. Section 11 of the Act of 27 November 2013 reads as follows: "The members of the Royal Family who are entitled to an allocation under section 3 shall comply with the rules referred to in Chapter 4. In the event of a failure to comply with these provisions, the Government may, after hearing the person concerned, propose to the House of Representatives that it make a retention order referred to in Article 3 which is granted to it. The Chamber should decide on the Government's proposal. The House must rule on the government's proposal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, I propose the following procedure: - the government's proposal is sent to a special committee which gives its opinion without delay, in order to respect the principle of the reasonable period of time; - the special committee shall consist of 13 members appointed in accordance with Rules 157 and 158 of the Rules of Procedure; no alternates shall be appointed; only members of the special committee may speak; only members of the special committee may attend meetings in camera; - the committee shall be chaired by the President of the Chamber, who shall not be entitled to vote; - Prince Laurent may lodge a written defence; if he so requests, he and/or his counsel shall be heard in committee; if necessary, a report shall be made of the hearing; - the possible hearing (including questions and answers) shall take place in public; the committee shall deliberate and decide with closed doors and shall act by secret ballot, in accordance with Rule 67. 1, second paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure, the Court declares the obligation of professional secrecy applicable to the restricted committee meetings; - the full file shall be available to all Members of Parliament at least three days before the plenary session; - the plenary shall decide on the proposal of the special committee in a public sitting and by secret ballot; after the rapporteur's report, each recognized and non-approved group shall have two minutes' speaking time; interruptions shall not be allowed. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, I propose the following procedure: - the Government's proposal is forwarded to a special committee which will speak without delay, so that the principle of reasonable time is respected; - the special committee shall consist of thirteen members appointed in accordance with Rules 157 and 158 of the Rules of Procedure; no alternate shall be appointed; only members of the special committee may speak; only members of the special committee may attend meetings in camera; - the committee is chaired by the Speaker of the House, who has no right to vote; - Prince Laurent may submit a memorandum; if he so requests, he and/or his counsel shall be heard in that commission; a record of the possible hearing shall be drawn up; - the possible hearing (including questions and answers) shall be public; the committee shall deliberate in camera and decide by secret ballot; in accordance with Rule 67(1)(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall declare the obligation of secrecy applicable to meetings of non-public committees; - the whole file may be consulted by all members of the House at least three days before the plenary session; - the plenary session will take place in a public meeting and by secret ballot on the proposal of the Special Committee; after the intervention of the rapporteur(s), each recognized and unrecognised group will have a speaking time of two minutes; no interruption will be allowed. Are you sure you don't mind? Pas d'observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u154	Mr President, we received in our mailbox this afternoon the text you have just read about the way in which the special committee on Prince Laurent will proceed. This committee has 13 members, divided among the traditional parties, which are apparently represented in the Conference of Presidents. If I understand correctly, and I would like to receive an explicit confirmation on this from you, it is only when Prince Laurent asks to be heard or when his counselor is heard, that he has a public debate. If I am in favour, all the groups can be present and everyone has the opportunity to ask questions. Or is that limited to the thirteen members of the committee? I understand that the debate will have to take place behind closed doors afterwards and that there will be a confidentiality clause. I am very sorry about this in relation to the small and unrecognised groups. I can understand that they may not be represented in the special committee, but they could be represented in an advisory vote. Apparently, that's not the case either. You have followed the advice of the law firm, Stibbe, in the sense that we still have two minutes to speak in plenary on the day when the government's proposal will be put to the vote. We will do our best to fill those two minutes properly. I would like to point out that the small, unapproved groups are once again virtually silenced. As a first reaction, you will note that I must be impartial. I do not need to prove that my group is not very impartial in this case and that everyone will agree on this. This is an issue on which we all agree. However, in view of the proposals made by some groups, I cannot get the impression that, among the 13 members of the committee, there will be others who are not undisputed when it comes to Prince Laurent. So I can only say that for the umpteenth time, the Conference of Presidents has made a nice deal of everything between themselves. As I have already said, small groups are once again being silenced. Colleagues, and I am looking at all the members of the small, unapproved groups, if it continues in this way, the small, unrecognised groups will be technically united in the near future or tomorrow, so that there could be a representation of those groups in the Conferences of Presidents. If the right of the Members concerned is constantly deprived of, the small, unapproved groups will see no other way out than such an association. Where appropriate, this will not only be for ideological reasons, but will cover technical aspects. Such an association then goes beyond ideological boundaries. In that case, you leave us no other option.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u155	Mr President, there are two problems with your communication. The first is democratic because it concerns the recognition of the role of small parties. We do not have the right to vote in committee, let us admit. But all of a sudden, Members of the non-recognised groups, who can speak without concern in the standing committees, cannot take it because the subject is becoming sensitive. This is the case in several special commissions. We were excluded from most commissions of inquiry. This reinforces the idea that there is a traditional party-to-party relationship. Fortunately, compared to the original draft, there has been a change in the Conference of Presidents, which gives us two small minutes to speak in plenary. My second question concerns transparency. In the original draft, there was a closed session in plenary as well as in committee. Fortunately, it seems under the impetus of some opposition parties in the Conference of Presidents, this has been abandoned. But why, in particular, did the N-VA defend this in camera? Is this because of its general propensity to limit transparency? Many examples could be given. The N-VA is obviously afraid of transparency. It's the party of opacity. Unless it's an embarrassment related to Prince Laurent's specific file? It would be interesting to know why this fear of transparency once again appeared here. I'd be interested in an answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u156	Mr President, of course, I join my colleagues here in regretting the fact that small parties cannot be represented on this committee. I note that, if the expression "good governance" is in the mouth of all major parties, when it comes to implementing it by accepting that all the parties represented in this Parliament attend this committee and that one Member equals another Member, good governance does not exist and that there is a two-speed democracy with Members who have more value and others who do not!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u157	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? Then I propose that we vote on the proposal. We are voting on the proposal resulting from the work carried out in the Conference of Presidents. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[120]] Yes No. [[8]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf voted as his group)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u158	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 and the decision taken recently, I propose that the Special Committee be set up to implement Article 11 of the Law of 27 November 2013. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 and the decision we have just taken, I propose that you proceed with the establishment of the special committee set up for the application of Article 11 of the Act of 27 November 2013. The committee shall consist of 13 effective members. The Commission has 13 effective members. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the distribution of this committee is as follows: I would point out that, in accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, the allocation of this committee is as follows: N-VA: 3 PS: 2 MR: 2 CD&V: 2 Open Vld: 1 sp.a: 1 Ecolo-Green: 1 cdH: 1. The chairmen of the political groups have sent me the applications of the members of their political groups who will be part of this special committee. The presidents of the political groups have sent me the nominations of the members of their group who will make up this special committee. N-VA: Peter De Roover, Peter Buysrogge, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh PS: Ahmed Laaouej, André Frédéric MR: David Clarinval, Philippe Goffin CD&V: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen Open Vld: Patrick Dewael sp.a: Annick Lambrecht Ecolo-Green: Gilles Vanden Burre cdH: Francis Delperee Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of seats to be taken to the political groups which have nominated candidates, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of eligible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be given to political groups that have nominated candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. I would also like to remind you that we will install the committee immediately after this plenary sitting in the Europe room.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u159	The government asked for urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law on several amendments relating to elections, No. 2958/1. The government called for urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill introducing various electoral amendments was tabled, No. 2958/1. Minister, I give you the floor to justify the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having regard to Article 39b of the Constitution, the electoral provisions for the House and the parliaments of the Communities and the Regions must be promulgated one year before the next elections. It is therefore essential that the draft law be adopted by the legislative chambers as soon as possible, with a view to its promulgation by the King, by mid-May 2018. The next European elections, which will also organise the federal elections and the elections for the Regions and the Communities at the same time, will take place in May or June 2019. The right date will soon be determined by the European Council. This bill brings together a significant number of cross-cutting amendments to electoral legislation. These amendments are all aimed at making the organization of elections under federal jurisdiction more efficient, especially since elections are intended to take place simultaneously. These include a fundamental change in the electoral calendar for the organisation of elections to the House of Representatives and Parliaments of the Communities and Regions, a change in the procedure for assigning a common list number in simultaneous elections. Furthermore, there is confirmation in the legislation of the use of electronic means, including the electronic identity card, for the submission of applications and the establishment of the lists of candidates, and clarification of the process for the designation of the Presidents of the canton headquarters, in particular during simultaneous elections. The draft law shall include specific and targeted adjustments to electoral legislation resulting from the organisation of the simultaneous elections of 25 May 2014 and the feedback from them, such as on the process of sending the minutes of the electronic polling offices or the composition of the college of experts for electronic voting, as well as on the specific competences of the college in the event of obstacles to the proper conduct of the electoral process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u161	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u162	The last item on the agenda contains a proposal whose consideration has been requested. You have taken note of a proposal which has been circulated to you for consideration. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this proposal shall be sent to the committee responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account and refer the proposal back to the committee responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou, Mr Frédéric Daerden and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx) on improving parental leave in order to achieve greater equality between men and women, No. 2968/1; - the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Evita Willaert and Mr Georges Gilkinet) to combat the pay gap between women and men, No. 2971/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u163	- the bill (Mr Koen Metsu) amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, No. 2970/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u164	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Fabienne Winckel, Mr Daniel Senesael, Ms Nawal Ben Hamou, Mr Frédéric Daerden and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx) on improving parental leave in order to promote greater equality between men and women, No 2968/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Evita Willaert and Mr. Georges Gilkinet) to combat the wage gap between women and men, No. 2971/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u165	- the draft law (Mr Koen Metsu) amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, No. 2970/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u166	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u167	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of legislative proposal No. 2970 amending the law of 2015 on relief zones and civil security. The legal framework for the defusion of the relief zones is completely lacking and it is very necessary for the municipalities that want to merge voluntarily to be about fifteen today to receive that legal framework, so that they can prepare themselves on 1 January 2019. We are thinking here of the distribution of movable property, real estate, staff, federal donations, municipal donations and so on. It was also announced and discussed informally at the meeting of the Home Affairs Commission last week. A similar bill on police zones is already under discussion. It would be more than practical if we could link this bill to it and discuss it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u168	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2917/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2917/4) Mrs Karin Jiroflée and Mrs Monica De Coninck voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2395/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2395/8) Mrs Muriel Gerkens voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u171	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Eric Thiébaut cs on Article 9. (2855/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Eric Thiébaut cs to Article 9. (2855/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[47]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 98 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2855/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2855/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u174	Mr President, I would like to justify the abstention of the cdH Group. The cdH group will abstain because it considers the text to be in the right direction, but the cdH is, as a matter of principle, against sponsorship in electoral matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u175	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill. (2620/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. (2620/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u176	Vote on Amendment No 1 of Barbara Beware of the inscription. (1939/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Barbara Not on the title. (1939/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 5 Yes No. 125 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 from Barbara Pas to insert recitals P(n) to Z(n) and Z/1(n) to Z/6(n). (1939/4) Vote on amendment No. 2 by Barbara Not tending to insert recitals P(n) to Z(n) and Z/1(n) to Z/6(n). (1939/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u177	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 of Barbara Pass inserting requests 9(n) to 13(n). (1939/4) Vote on amendment No. 3 by Barbara Not tending to insert requests 9(n) to 13(n). (1939/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u178	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly support this motion for a resolution. The author of this proposal rightly calls on the Federal Government to pay attention to the need for respect and protection of the language heritage of Belgium. In paragraph 1 of the decision-making part of its resolution, it confines itself to the protection of the German language, which, as rightly pointed out, is treated stepmotherly by the federal government. However, there is another part of the language heritage in this country that is being treated stepmotherly, in particular the Dutch language in Brussels. I have often spoken here about the way in which the Brussels local authorities, in the most brutal way, are violating language legislation. Every year, I return to the Vice-Governor's language reports: the figures are getting worse and worse. I did not intend to do more with my amendments than to ask for the protection of the Dutch language in Brussels. It is a lack of consequence of colleagues that the protection of German in this country does not seem to fall within the Community's standstill, but the application of existing legislation and the protection of the Dutch language in Brussels does seem to be, because I note that this is being systematically voted down.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u181	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1939/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1939/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 78 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2753/10) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2753/10) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2896/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2896/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 129 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2897/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2897/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u186	Mr. Chairman, for this bill, my group will abstain. In this text, it is required that a two-thirds majority of the National Joint Committee be sufficient to judge the existence of economic or technical reasons for the dismissal of trade union delegates. The minister said it was the custom. However, according to the Law of 19 March 1991 on a special dismissal scheme for staff delegates to works councils in the private sector and according to the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation of 25 June 2001, unanimity is required. For this difference in the composition of the majority, we shall abstain and regret that unanimity is not retained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u187	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2939/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2939/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-08-54-plenair-ip217x.u188	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 15 March 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 15, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I should like to remind you that we are going straight to the installation of the special committee in the Europe room. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 March 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 15 March 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
