ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u1	Minister, as mayor of a multicultural municipality, I regularly get questions about the conversion of a Moroccan driving licence to a Belgian driving licence. Following a new circular, dated 6 February 2018, it seems that no national driving licence from Morocco can be transposed. The category B may still be converted, but all other categories would no longer be convertible. For example, from point 7.3, on page 28 of that circular letter it seems to follow that all special categories obtained after obtaining a driving licence B would no longer be convertible into Belgian driving licences. I would ask you to clarify this question, Minister, and, if necessary, to take a look with me at how these matters should be interpreted on page 28.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u2	My colleague, the exchange of Moroccan driving licences takes place under the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic and the bilateral agreement between Morocco and Belgium of 12 May 1981. According to these international rules of law, Moroccan categories C and D can be exchanged in Belgium. However, the circular clarifies to the municipalities that those categories cannot be exchanged if they have been made valid, in accordance with Moroccan law, after the date on which the licence was issued. This is impossible according to the Belgian legislation on driving licences, which makes it impossible to issue a valid Belgian equivalent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u3	Mr President, if you look closely at the letter, you will see that every Moroccan driving licence is delivered when the driving licence is obtained. Afterwards driving licences can be obtained for trucks, buses and engines. The application of the circular makes it clear that one can never again obtain a special driving licence because each Moroccan driving licence indicates the first date when driving licence B is obtained. I therefore think that there is a misconception somewhere and that the municipal authorities have not been clearly informed about this. Each driving licence, including our own one, dates back to 1996 and bears the date of driving licence B and will only subsequently indicate C, D, E and F as I subsequently obtained my motorcycle licence. That would mean that a conversion would never happen. I think there's something wrong with the regulations. I will look into it further, because your answer is quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u4	Minister, I have filed an inquiry inspired by your statements in the press. In fact, when asked about the paralysis of the Brussels overflight, you recently said: "We have identified seven elements and we have tabled a solution on 12 July 2017". Almost a year ago! "Everyone told me she was the one." I don't know who everybody is and I'm gonna ask you the question. "But when I propose that we meet, no one means yes first. Every time I want to move forward with a solution, I'm desperately alone. The plan exists but I don't know how to get people by the ears, feet or arms to come and talk. They're not coming." I quoted you in extenso, without distorting your words. On reading these, we have the impression that you are totally powerless in this matter, while you have the competence to do so, particularly with regard to the definition of overflight routes. Why don't you ask for the Prime Minister's support, knowing he's a member of your party? As chairman of the Consultation Committee, he has the power to put this issue on the agenda to negotiate with the Regions. He has the power to tell these Deputy Prime Ministers to get around the table and put a file on the agenda of the Concertation Committee. I would like to add that the Regions are not concerned with all the measures to be taken in your case. Your government agreement announces, for example, the creation of an independent noise control authority around Brussels-National Airport. You don't need the Regions to create it. So why don't you go ahead with this aspect of the case? A year ago, you also announced a clarification of the instructions on wind standards, which is also at a standstill while it is not dependent on the Regions. It depends only on you and, by the way, it doesn't even depend on vliegweg either. Measures should therefore be taken to relieve the Brussels people; the real question is whether you still have the will to move this issue forward or whether you are already in business. I am talking about you, but also, and essentially, the government, given your statements. This inquiry would not take place if there had not been your statements, everywhere, moreover, in the press last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u5	Mrs Lalieux, in the general context of the Brussels overflight dossier, I am still in favour of a comprehensive solution. I remain so and continue in this direction! A solution incorporating all the components of this dossier, which, I would remind you, are legal, operational, environmental, socio-economic, technical, institutional and political, has been tabled on the Kern table. In order to bring about a lasting and structural solution, this dossier must be taken into account in a global context. At this stage, no mandate from the government, on the basis of my proposals, was given to me to turn to other actors. I would also like to hear the views of these other actors. For example, who brings the opinion of the Brussels Region? What was the government's decision? It would interest me to know. I observe, more than ever, division on all levels: between Regions, between neighbourhoods, among elected officials, in employers' offices and in trade unions. That is why I am very hopeful about the impact study that we had already mentioned in committee in 2016 and 2017, by answering questions from Mr Dallemagne. Today, the impact study has become inescapable. I have just appointed the Envisa study office to carry out a scientific, technical and independent impact study on noise pollution at Brussels-National Airport. This study has now started, Envisa's employees analyze the problem and make the first contact with the key holders. This study will be an important and, I hope, unchallenged basis of work. Taking short-term measures, which could be contradicted in the coming months by this study, would be contrary to any logic and would show mismanagement of this very complex case. As for the competence of the Regions, you seem to be unaware that in Belgium they are competent in matters relating to noise, the environment, urban planning, etc. However, in this case, if a comprehensive solution is to be sought, the competences of all must be taken into account in the search for a comprehensive solution. On reading the government agreement you are quoting, it is clear that it is in consultation with the Regions that the government will also ensure the creation of an independent noise control authority around the Brussels-National airport. Similarly, it is hoped that a cooperation agreement will be concluded with the Brussels-Capital Region on noise standards and that is my intention. With regard to the follow-up to the audit on the use of runways at Brussels airport, I have advanced, to present a dossier, clear standards that would allow controllers to work in a clearer and more secure environment. The current confusion between past instructions, particularly in July and December 2013, and the standards to be met must be eliminated. This confusion leads to choices of air routes that are sometimes difficult to justify. The multiplicity of instructions creates a situation in which today the controllers are questioned by an investigating judge on the choice of leads. This proposal does not yet reach consensus, and we look forward to the latest technical analysis of the various elements contained therein. The discussions are continuing and I am making sure that the solution benefits the people of the three regions of the country because the solution, as I have already mentioned on several occasions, is not to pull the planes off one road to put them on another road because it immediately generates legal action. Rather, it is a matter of finding a comprehensive solution for the benefit of all residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u6	[[Mr President, I have heard the minister's answer.]] What I have been unable to bear for a number of months is to hear each answer say: "I am not responsible. This is the responsibility of the Regions." Minister, I think you have the file in hand. Referring to the MR's election campaign in Brussels, it was enough for you to have the skills to solve the problem of the overflight of Brussels. This is, in any case, what was stated on all the leaflets. I can pull them out. No one ever believed it, minister. Some have said so and have kept repeating it only for electoral reasons. The MR has been in charge for almost four years now, but we haven't seen anything coming, minister. You're just confirming it. You said loud and clear that you were the first, it's true, to have asked for an audit of the use of leads following the complaints. The audit went out with DGTA, with everything we've been through here in committee. The work in committee has been more than useful. The conclusions are clear, clear and precise. Now, since their deposit almost a year ago, nothing has changed. The instructions have not been modified. In this case, you are the only master on board to dictate them. Today, you tell us that your proposal has been rejected - I suppose, by your government. This means that your colleagues refuse to follow the audit, the instructions and your policy of clarity, which also involves the Belgocontrol workers. Then, you systematically refer to the incidence study. When is the report due, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u7	Interim reports will be issued in four and twelve weeks. For the final report, everything will depend on the material provided by the actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u8	I take it that we have no idea of the date of conclusion of the impact study. This means that after five years, this government will not have found a solution to the problem of overflight. The same applies to wind standards: you can simplify them without waiting for an agreement or this study. You're telling me you're obviously not going to do it. The three regions and all the non-profit organisations concerned, wherever they come from, would welcome a decision that would prolong the night and lead to the "European night". It is an action that you can take immediately and that would satisfy all the residents, to the extent that it would reduce pollution and improve public health. Besides, she wouldn't touch the airport. Other airports have already taken this step and even stopped night flights. Anyway, I don't know who's blocking you in this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u9	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u10	No, no, that would be a start, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u11	You're talking about several other airports...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u12	Minister, I didn't interrupt you. We are not in a debate, although I would like to discuss a proposal with you. We are unable to open a debate, since you do not propose anything to us. If you want an exchange of views, it must be undertaken on the basis of a text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u13	We're doing it calmly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u14	I didn't want to get upset. I'm just saying that your own government is preventing you from making decisions. We know that you are blocked by the Dutch-speaking parties. We know that, Mr. President, and I'm sorry to have to call him back. It is the Dutch-speaking partners who dictate their law, so that Brussels does not count in the eyes of this government. I said it yesterday and I repeat it again today!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u15	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Karine Lalieux and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government to - to respect the priority criterion of avoiding the most densely populated areas when developing new air routes; - to change the timetable of the Brussels-National airport to extend the night from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. instead of 11 p.m. to 6 a.m.; - gradually restrict the noise quotas and tonnage levels of aeroplanes authorised to take off from Brussels-National airport between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m.; - gradually lowering the ceiling of 16,000 night flights per year; - to create an independent noise control authority linked to the Brussels-National airport which includes representatives of the Regions." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Karine Lalieux and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government - to take account of the priority criterion of avoiding the most densely populated areas in the design of new routes; - adjust the flight schedule at Brussels Airport in such a way that the night is extended from 23 to 6 hours to the period between 22 and 7 hours; - to reduce gradually the noise quotas and tonnage of aircraft authorised to take off at Brussels Airport between 22 and 7 hours; - gradually reduce the annual ceiling of 16 000 night flights; - to establish an independent authority to monitor noise pollution caused by Brussels Airport and to include representatives of the Regions.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u16	Minister, with the hot heat we experienced during this month of May, the issue of air conditioning in trains has resurfaced. As is the case every year at the same time, comments on this subject flourish everywhere on social networks regarding the suffocating heat on some trains. Fortunately, the situation in this area is improving from year to year thanks to the permanent renewal of rolling stock, knowing that any new acquisition is now equipped with air conditioning. We learned that 53% of our rail fleet was currently equipped with air conditioning. By the end of the year, more than 400 new cars will be put into service, further increasing this proportion. Minister, is the number of complaints on this ground important to the NBSC and is there a decrease in these complaints from year to year? Although I fully understand that every effort is made to renew rolling stock at best, given the current situation, is this criterion taken into account in the case of high heat to try to favour the use of trains equipped with air conditioning? In general, do you already have an estimate of the time within which the whole fleet not equipped with air conditioning can be renewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u17	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me of the number of its customers who respond to the issue of comfort on board trains. The remarks made concern lighting but also heating or air conditioning. In 2015, 2016 and 2017, it received 168, 126 and 129 responses, respectively. The trend is clearly downwards. During the normal period of circulation (weekly school time), SNCB does not have the possibility to put non-air-conditioned equipment aside without reducing the supply. However, the older equipment, mainly double AM and M4 cars, provide fewer kilometres in total than the more modern and air-conditioned equipment such as Desiro, AM96 and M6 cars. During the period of leave (July and August), a number of trains are abolished, which mainly reduces the number of double AMs and M4 cars that are not air-conditioned. In particular, with regard to the tourism supply to the coast, SNCB is trying to use mainly capacitive and air-conditioned equipment. By the end of 2023, a large part of the non-air-conditioned fleet (double AM, M4 cars) will have been decommissioned. The commissioning of M7 equipment will also improve the situation in this area, since all equipment will then be air-conditioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. You confirm the evolution of things by the numbers. The fact that in summer there are fewer trains and that you prefer air-conditioned trains is a positive thing that will only relieve regular users.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u19	Minister, you know how attached I am to my province. It came back to me that only 24% of the docks at our stations were high. 52% are low – or 28 centimetres – and the rest is either medium or mixed. This causes accessibility problems for the elderly or people with reduced mobility, as well as for those who take the train to the airport with heavy suitcases. This is why a major upgrading project is planned by SNCB. Minister, can you tell me, for the province of Hainaut, the number of docks to be increased and the estimated cost of this operation? Can you also tell me if a time frame and budget are already in place for this province? Minister, this is my second question. You recently inaugurated, at the Libramont station, a platform-lifting device to facilitate access to the docks for people with reduced mobility. The Arlon station also benefits from the same system. This is part of a pilot experiment conducted by SNCB on the Namur-Luxembourg line. In order to qualify, the user must make the request at least three hours in advance in order to have the support of a person specially trained in the use of the system. This is a device offering an alternative to elevators, which is much easier to set up. Minister, can an initial assessment already be drawn from this experience? To your knowledge, how many times have these platforms been used to date? Is it planned to extend this system to other stations? What budget could be allocated to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u20	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that it is currently evaluating pilot projects for lift platforms that facilitate access to docks for people with reduced mobility (PMR). I recall that these platforms were installed in Libramont and Arlon. It is planned to equip Ciney, Marbehan, Marloye and Rochefort-Jemelle stations in 2019. In Arlon, the platform was used five times during the period from 17 March to 22 May. In Libramont, it was used eleven times over the same period. In the province of Hainaut, various large-scale railway projects will be financed in the coming years. They will improve the mobility in general and the accessibility of stations in particular. The example of Fleurus Station illustrates this philosophy. Charleroi Airport, is not physically represented on any railway line. The Fleurus site was chosen to remedy this. The project consists of the construction of a new station, new wharfs, a new parking lot and a bridge to the docks and provide access to the PMRs via lifts. The overall project designed to facilitate the accessibility of airport passengers includes the construction of a new station better adapted to current needs and better localized, the upgrading of the 76 cm docks and the improvement of their equipment, the construction of a bridge at least 6 m wide to improve the accessibility of passengers, the construction of a new 130-seat parking lot for passengers and the provision of adequate equipment for connecting shuttles to the airport. This work, for a total amount of 5.4 million euros, will be carried out thanks to the virtuous billion. They will start in 2018 and are expected to end around 2021 with the opening of the station. I know that Braine-le-Comte will also benefit from a substantial amount. For more details, I invite you to submit your questions in writing. We will forward them to SNCB and Infrabel for answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u21	Minister, thank you. The most important thing is to show a will for accessibility for all, especially for the less valid whether they are moms or dads with strollers, elderly people, PMRs or people carrying heavy luggage. I will not fail to file a written question to receive more details and to know the progress of the project. The experiments carried out on the Luxembourg-Brussels line seem interesting to me. I hope that they will be positive and that they can be repeated on the other SNCB lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u22	Madam President, Minister, ATMs are now present at all of our stations, which is a very good thing. However, stations may have specific configurations with access on both sides of the tracks. In this case, it comes back to me that the ticket machines are located on one side only. This, of course, does not pose a problem for the majority of users. However, for older people, people with reduced mobility or those with heavy workloads, this can quickly become a handicap. Minister, can you take stock of this situation? Would it be possible, for the few cases involved – I know they are not flourishing – to make sure that in the future an ATM is available to the remote access of the other points of sale? I also take the opportunity to ask you, concerning my city of Braine le Comte, whose station will be in the future – and I am glad – in such a configuration, since a 500-seat parking lot will be built at the back of the station with an extension of the tunnel under the tracks, if, to your knowledge, it is planned to have an access vending machine that will be located on the other side of the tracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u23	Colleagues, SNCB tells me that the station or stop-point automaton must have more than 5,000 sales per month in order for this station to have a second automatic. The station of Braine-le-Comte already has two automatons for an average volume of 5,500 sales per month. This volume does not justify the installation of a third automaton. On the other hand, on the basis of the work to be carried out, the expected attendance of the new access and the new organization of the traffics, it could be envisaged to move one of the two automatons towards it. The criterion of monthly sales volume is essential, but it is not the single criterion that determines the number of automatons to be placed. Certain specific situations can be taken into account such as the distribution of sales over the day, week or year with peaks of use or a very long distance between one of the docks and the automata.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u24	Minister, I am completely satisfied with your answer. Currently, as you rightly point out, the two automatons are five metres away from each other but one, inside the windows room and the other, outside the windows room in case it is closed. Indeed, when and only when the connection with the back is assured, I believe that one can imagine that the one who is inside can be transposed. What I'm glad about is that the figure you're giving me is more than 5,000. So we are already in the right configuration, if I may say so. I am not surprised because we have about 5,300 users of the train in Braine-le-Comte, which makes it one of the important stations in Wallonia. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u25	Minister, as a regular commuter, I am well aware of SNCB's efforts to make its service more efficient and of the problems that still need to be addressed. Among these, the lack of information is recurrent. Often, in case of delay, users complain almost as much about not knowing what led to this situation as about the delay itself. Mr Minister, I understand that it is absolutely not possible to explain the cause of each delay via the sound announcements at the stations, and certainly not at the stations in Brussels where all the announcements must be broadcast in both languages. But would it not be possible for this information to be communicated by the attendant once people are seated on the train or via the SNCB website or application? Explaining why a train is lagging behind reduces frustration among travellers. This would also enable users to become aware of the reasons for delays, which are very often external to SNCB, and of the efforts made to reduce these delays. Tensions would probably be reduced. The last time I chaired this committee, you had experienced a human tragedy in your own region. Someone had fallen on the track and it had inevitably resulted in an accumulation of delays. More recently, cows were travelling on the track near Hal Station. If we explained this to people, they would understand that SNCB is obviously not responsible for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree that quality communication in real time is essential to inform travellers at all times and in particular in the event of disturbed service. That is what I expect from SNCB, and I have already made this clear. It is important for travellers to be accompanied throughout their journey and to be able to rely on reliable information at all times. In the event of a disturbance of traffic, the passenger must not only know the cause of the delay, but also, and above all, receive information on the continuation of his journey. With this in mind, SNCB informs me that it intends to inform customers both on board the train and via the website and the application on the possibilities of alternatives for the continuation of their journey. I will continue to urge SNCB to make every effort to meet the needs of its customers through real-time information using all possible networks and channels. I understood that Mrs Dutordoir made this real time info one of her priorities. She told you that, which I am glad to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, welcoming is one of the things you really care about. I must say that, on a regular basis, accompanied persons not only provide information as we wish, but also go further by providing, for example, when arriving in Brussels, all possible correspondence for those who continue their journey. I take my hat off them and hope that in the future this situation will become more widespread.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u28	Minister, you know that I am a user of line 161-162, but I am concerned today about the state of line 96. Following the derailment of an empty train, on Friday 8 June, at Neufvilles - between Soignies and Tubize - the line 96 connecting Brussels to Mons was impassable for a few days and then partially usable, causing the commuters concerned to suffer heavy inconvenience. Unfortunately, the measures taken by SNCB and Infrabel to inform travellers and to develop alternative solutions did not match the efforts of the workers responsible for the rehabilitation of the line. While several trains were returned to service, some convoys were cancelled. In addition, the capacity of the travelling trains has not always been commensurate with the needs of the commuters. As one in two trains consisted of half their capacity, the discomfort of the passengers was strongly felt. In addition, on Wednesday, 13 June, several users stayed at the Soignies and Braine-le-Comte train stations. Minister, since then, the line has been completely restored. However, what information was provided to travellers? How do you explain the reduced composition of some vehicles? For what reason(s) has SNCB not been able to adapt to this situation? Has this problem been resolved during the course of the work? More generally, we know that, in some exceptional situations, one must take one's evil in patience. However, exceptional ways should be found to respond. Moreover, in normal times, users too often stay at the dock or have to travel standing on one of SNCB's most unloved lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u29	Madam President, Mr Gilkinet, despite the great damage to the railway infrastructure, Infrabel's teams have made every effort to restore traffic as soon as possible on line 96. The repair work was completed and the line was completely reopened at 4 p.m. on Friday, 15 June. SNCB informs me that information on the derailment and its consequences for travellers as well as on alternatives has been made available online on the "Disturbations" page as well as on the SNCB travel planner. This information has been continuously updated and updated since June 8, 2018. At the same time, the information provided on-line was also disseminated on information screens, notably at the stations in Brussels, Braine-le-Comte, Soignies, Jurbise and Mons. Announcements containing more general and specific information on the trains concerned were broadcast in audio at all the affected stations. As for the communication on board the trains, the attendants informed customers as early as 8 June 2018, the day of the accident, of the consequences on their train (the organization of diversion, limitations, unserved stops). The information was received in real time. On the following days, information on the measures taken (alternative train service) was made available to escorts whose train was affected. This information complements the basic information on train schedules and routes that the attendant already receives at the beginning of his service. Why did some trains travelling on Wednesday 13 June on this line have a reduced number of passengers wishing to travel to Brussels? On 13 June, during the morning peak, train 3708 had to be pulled off and drove only with an AM96 due to a lack of equipment available in Mons. During the evening peak, normal compositions were respected. Considering that one less relationship has been circulating on line 96 because of the reduced capacity to restore the line, SNCB informs me that it has, to the extent possible, prioritized the respect of the compositions on this line compared to the others during the period in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u30	Minister, I am not going to question you every time a train travels in an incomplete composition. In view of the circumstances, it is difficult to understand that a choice of allocation of equipment on this line, since only one in two convoys were travelling, was not carried out in such a way as to allow as many passengers as possible to travel. Perhaps this is a lesson to be learned in the hope that we will no longer face similar circumstances in the future. SNCB made an effort to communicate. There's never enough. As far as the composition of the convoys is concerned, it has obviously not been up to the task, contrary to the work carried out in a record time by workers on the ground to restore the rails damaged by this unfortunate accident which, fortunately, has not caused any human casualties. Perhaps one or two lines of concern should be added to SNCB's contingency plans for the composition of trains in the event of limited traffic, as was the case for a few days on the Brussels-Mons line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u31	Minister, a while ago, concrete blocks were placed at the left entrance, next to the main entrance, at the front of Bruges station. These concrete blocks are probably useful for safety, but are not strategically positioned at all. Several blind and partially sighted people have told me that the concrete blocks are just on the path where the blind-guided tracks of the station stop. This is very annoying for these people. Mr. Secretary, I have a few questions. First, who decided to place these concrete blocks at the left entrance, next to the main entrance of the station in Bruges? Secondly, what is the point of these blocks? Thirdly, advice was sought from the blind, the visually impaired and those with motor disabilities? If so, was their advice followed? Fourthly, is it possible to place these concrete blocks better so that the blind and visually impaired have a better passage to and from the station?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u32	Mrs Lambrecht, SNCB has informed me that it has indeed decided to secure its twenty busiest stations better against terror. The blocks, which have recently been placed, fit into that scheme, but are also a provisional solution. The blocks, such as those in Bruges, must prevent a vehicle from entering the station. SNCB is currently preparing a specifications for a definitive and more aesthetic solution such as galvanisable poles. It is her intention to place it at the end of 2018. The comments about the blind and partially sighted are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u33	Minister, you say that the remarks about the blind and visually impaired are taken into account. Do you mean my comment or their advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u34	In general.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u35	Will these people's advice be listened to, because that has not happened now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u36	Yeah, those comments are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u37	Also the placement of the blocks, which are now there, was tested against the advice of the blind and partially sighted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u38	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u39	Madam Chair, Mr. Minister, a working group of commuters who are exceeding delays and correspondence problems on line 96, in particular on the last section between Mons and Quévy, and the association of commuters.be, have just published a series of claims. Of these, two have received special attention. First of all, the fact that no train is driving on that end of the line. It is therefore requested that one train per hour be offered on Saturdays and Sundays. The second claim is based on the desire to extend the hourly amplitude in the evening. From 8 p.m. onward, it becomes risky to hope for a connection in Mons to Quévy, which is a serious handicap for commuters who return late from their work in Brussels. Minister, can a train connecting Quévy to Mons during the weekend be proposed soon? Can a correspondence beyond 8 p.m. during the week between Mons and Quévy also be proposed? Could you explain your decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u40	Dear colleague, I am aware of the requests made by the working group representing the users of the Quévy-Mons section. The current SNCB management contract does not provide for a weekend service for the stations of Quévy, Genly and Frameries. Nevertheless, I can inform you that the planned railway service between Mons and Quévy on the weekend is under consideration as part of the future transport plan 2020-2023. The minimum service amplitudes are defined in the management contract between SNCB and Infrabel. At the stations in Quévy, Genly and Frameries, SNCB must guarantee a rail offer of one train per hour between 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. The SNCB informs me that it does not propose a train later because of the passenger flows recorded in the plans prior to the 2014-2017 transport plan by the counts made during the weekends. However, as with the rest of the network, SNCB will re-evaluate the service amplitudes of line 96 as part of the transport plan December 2020-2023 and after making the roadshows, which had already been completed at my request to prepare the December 2017 transport plan. If further requests are to be made, local authorities should be sought, as is the case throughout the country. They will have to be assessed, assessed and ranked in order, as was done on the basis of the criteria for the preparation of the 2017-2019 transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u41	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u42	Minister, your statements in November 2017, along with those of the Walloon Minister of Transport, confirming an agreement to finance the work necessary for the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons railway line, for the Belgian side, gave much hope to the supporters of this project. I'm one of them. I've been following this file for ten years. I have already told you: I had had the agreement of at least four of your predecessors to reopen the line. I hope you will be the minister who will officially reopen this line. Today, expectations are focused on the French state, which also has to build 700 meters of rail to connect Quiévrain and to unblock a budget of about 7 million euros for this purpose. However, the silence of the French Minister of Transport and of the regional authorities in the region of overseas Quiévrain, who are currently in the midst of a debate on the Assises de la mobilité, cast doubt on the good outcome of this project. There is indeed a risk that the French government will abandon work in certain rural areas, including those allowing the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons line. Minister, in the face of this uncertainty, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you have any contact with the French Minister of Transport and the competent French regional authorities on the dossier relating to the reopening of the Valenciennes-Mons line? Do you have information about the French position? Are there any meetings planned? Do you defend this file with your French counterpart? As regards the Belgian side, do you confirm that there is a cooperation agreement with the Walloon Minister for Mobility to finance this project? Was it signed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u43	Dear colleague, I can confirm that I am very close to the various cross-border dossiers with France and in particular the reopening of the Mons-Valenciennes line. The technical and financial dossier is ready on Infrabel's side, which now wishes to have guarantees for the reconstruction of the section between Blanc-Misseron and the border. For your information, Mr. Thiébaut, I refer you to questions that were asked to me. I think they were asked to say that if the French did not do it, it was that on the Belgian side, we were not ready. We have the money, the study is over. I therefore refer the arguments that were given to me at the time to the authors, and this with kindness. On the Belgian side, the section between Quiévrain and the border will not be built proactively. Infrabel held technical meetings on this subject on 7 February and 5 April. For my part, I recently met with the French Minister on cross-border investment issues at the last European Transport Council. Since it is now a transfer of powers to the Regions (in France), they must monitor the financing of the projects. On the other hand, as part of the TEN-T Days in Ljubljana at the end of April, I made various contacts with a view to moving the Mons-Valenciennes dossier forward and setting the stage for a joint co-financing project between Belgium and France. As regards cooperation agreements with the Walloon Region, negotiations are under way. I await the official green light of the Walloon government on the projects it intends to co-finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u44	Minister, thank you for that clarification. It's been several years since we've had a ping-pong game. When, on the French side, financing is settled, it is not on the Belgian side and when it is on the Belgian side, it is no longer on the French side. It's been going on for several years. It seems to me that we have no concern for financing on our side, as we are receiving co-financing as you have pointed out. I know that the port of Antwerp agrees to finance part of the work. The port of Antwerp has an interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u45	We have put all the necessary amounts on the Belgian side in the famous strategic investment plan – the billion. But if co-financing were obtained, either European or Walloon, this amount would be spent on other work elsewhere. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u47	If someone participates, it reduces the cost of Infrabel's expenses. And this amount will then be allocated to other projects that would be discussed with the Walloon Region, as we do with the Brussels or Flemish government, according to its priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u48	In conclusion, we are waiting only for the approval of the French authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u49	Indeed, as well as the agreement between the Region and the SNCF.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u50	Mr Minister, slowly but surely, it seems that the construction site of the Mons station is moving towards its end. After many trips and interruptions, the commuters, of which I am a part, can finally see a real evolution around the docks. The owners of the building are currently in the process of finalizing the sixth and final push phase of the metal frame, which will act as a bridge, a major structure of this superb future station. In my last parliamentary question to take stock of the progress of the project, you indicated to me that the SNCB was hoping to put the future station into service at the end of 2018, or rather, as you informally indicated, at the beginning of 2019. In view of the latest developments, and while the work is continuing, the Montois and the commuters are hoping that this deadline can be kept. What can you answer them, Minister? Do you think this deadline will be met? Could you tell me what the last steps are to be taken before the future station is put into service?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u51	Dear colleague, I would like to recall that the "metal carpent" market was interrupted in November 2015 following the general failure of the successful tenderer. SNCB informs me that emergency measures have been taken, which have led to the completion of the first two sections of the bridge and their push over railway installations. As a result, two public procurement procedures were relaunched. The first concerned essentially the finalization of the bridge and the connecting elements, the fore-perrons with the dock shelters, and the second relating to the construction of the dock shelters and awnings. The first contract was awarded in November 2016. The remaining five sections of the bridge were gradually coupled and pushed, and the seventh and final push occurred a month ago. The bridge has thus reached its final position. The procedures for final support of the bridge are currently in progress, while pre-mounting of the foresprons is under way. The final support will be completed at the end of September 2018. It is a condition for carrying out the other works, namely the cover and façade of the station, the special technical equipment and means of elevation, the constructions of the two awnings and the dock shelters and the second work and completions. The co-activity on the site will therefore increase sharply. On the other hand, major works and railway infrastructure carried out at more than 95% and catenary works at stations also dependent on carpentry work have, for some, been gradually resumed and will also be intensified. SNCB states that the forecast timing resulting from the latest developments at the site estimates that the bridge station will be operational at best at the end of 2019 but certainly in the middle of spring 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u52	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I see that, since the last time I asked you about the subject, the deadline has not been too long. It's still a good sign. I hope that the next time I ask to take stock, you will not tell me that this will end in 2021. I remain optimistic and thank you for these technical clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u53	I have a question about RESPER, the database of European driving licences which records when a switch is to take place. The database can check whether the European driving licence is known. It is currently only the FPS Mobility and Transport that can consult this European network. However, they must do so manually. According to them, this is a large volume of driving licences offered for exchange. They do not consult the database for all driving licences. Although it is not customary in the case of oral questions, I ask you the following questions. Is it true that there are a lot of driving licences involved? Figures are useful to give an indication. The database is certainly consulted when there are doubts about the authenticity, validity, loss, theft, damage or illegibility of the driving licence. There seems to be no uniformity between the different Member States in the introduction of the data which makes them unreliable. When do you think that automatic access to this database could be possible? Do you have a deadline within which this could happen? How many times a year does the consultation take place at a high volume of driving licences for transformation or screening? Will you press your European colleagues for uniformity so that the reliability of the data can be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, until now no study has been carried out on the possibility of automatic consultation of RESPER. Access to RESPER is only provided for national licence authorities and a link between RESPER and the database of driving licences is not planned. This is not appropriate at the moment either. Each country has its own national rules which are reflected in RESPER. Therefore, a country-by-country interpretation of the RESPER data is required. This requires a certain amount of expertise in this area. The information displayed in RESPER also varies from country to country. It is often necessary to contact the European authorities to request additional information. For example, not all expired data can be found in RESPER and a manual follow-up remains necessary. Automatic coupling at the moment would only lead to more errors in the exchange of European driving licences. The last 12 months from 1 June 2017 to 31 May 2018 5 807 European driving licences were exchanged A division by region or province is not for sale. Once a year, a RESPER working group is organised by the European driving licence committee. The aim of this working group is to improve and pursue the uniformity and harmonisation of the European database, since each country has a separate approach, it is very difficult to adapt RESPER to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u55	I thank the Minister for his reply. I am pleased to learn that there is a working group which may meet annually and which is likely to be able to work with this database as efficiently as possible. Doing manual searches that would result in a smaller margin of error, I find a strange reasoning. Linking to databases is also becoming more and more frequent. The future will tell. The working group of experts will itself indicate what is needed, if such a link is desirable. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic931x.u56	Question No 26217 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is postponed.
