ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u1	Secretary of State, I'm coming back to you about the use of ID for commercial purposes. To be more accurate, what concerns me is the use of this official document as a loyalty card in some stores. I asked you the question in February 2017, and before that I spoke to your predecessor about it. Today, if I may put the subject back on the table, it is because the two answers in this file are the same and refer me to the Privacy Commission. I quote: "Madam, at the reception of your question in June 2016, we contacted the Privacy Commission, which had already opened an investigation into this matter in the last few months. At this stage, the investigation is not yet closed. The Commission has met with the various actors very recently and, obviously, is still waiting for some elements of response from the controllers." However, since my questions remained unanswered, I took care to contact the Commission in order to find out more. The answer to my letter is quite intriguing. I quote: "According to the information provided, the Secretary of State would have replied that he had requested a study of this matter from my services. I inform you that my services are not aware of this request." Mr. Secretary of State, is there an ongoing investigation or not? You were talking about meetings already conducted by the Privacy Commission, what about it? Why do I have to be told the opposite in the Commission? Are we now in a position to know what data are being collected by businesses? How? How are they used? Does this approach pose a risk to personal data and, in general, to the protection of consumers' privacy? More generally, the Privacy Commission has made several recommendations. Are they followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u2	Madam, I confirm that we have contacted the Privacy Commission for more information on your questions. I confirm that the Commission has replied that an investigation is under way. I refer to the e-mail exchanges between my administration and the Privacy Commission on March 25, June 23, October 25, and April 9, 2018. I have these e-mails at your disposal. I do not understand why the Privacy Commission told you that there was no request on my part because the e-mails are very explicit. The Commission replied in 2015 and 2016 that an investigation was under way on the subject and that there were no response elements to be provided at this stage because different records of the use of the identity card as a loyalty card had to be attached. The Commission has told me that it has met with various actors and has examined the preconditions for the use of identity cards. On April 9, 2018, the Privacy Commission told me in an e-mail that the files had found a way out and that it could now consider that the use of the identity card as a loyalty card is possible, as long as this use complies with the prerequisites set out in its Recommendation 03/2011. There are therefore rules of proportionality to be respected. It is also necessary to respect the fact that the consumer can refuse to give his or her identity card so that it can be used as a loyalty card. There is a list of prerequisites to be met. The recommendation also specifies that organisational and technical measures should be taken to limit the collection of data to the data only necessary to achieve the intended purpose, but also to ensure that protection against unauthorized and illegitimate access is provided. Similarly, traceability is necessary in order to control who has had access to what data. Measures must therefore be taken with regard to security and data protection. Once again, the European Regulation is in force. Each controller who performs such an electronic reading of the ID card is obliged to proactively disclose certain information, such as the data subject, the identity and address of the controller. On the other hand, the data subject also has the possibility, in any case and at any time, to ask the controller whether he is processing the data concerning him, as well as the nature of the data, the use and the follow-up to be made. The Regulation is in force. As a consumer, all these rights can already be used to access this type of data. In order to clarify and formalise the various conditions, I have proposed, together with my colleague the Minister of the Interior Jan Jambon, an adaptation of Article 6 §4 of the Law of 19 July 1991 on the population register, identity cards, foreign cards and residence documents. This adapted article is incorporated into the draft law on various domestic provisions, and will soon be introduced into Parliament to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u3	Thank you for your complete answers, but I would like to get the e-mail exchange you have had with the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, if a customer of an insurance company has taken out hospitalisation insurance through a broker and he or she receives compensation after a claim file has been processed, the broker will receive confirmation that a certain amount has been paid in, of course without the medical details being communicated to him. It's the only way that broker can keep up with the file. In it, there is just his added value: in the follow-up to policy management and the claims files. He needs to make sure everything's done correctly. Apparently, some insurance companies don't give that confirmation to the real estate agent anymore. This has to do with the GDPR Directive and the sensitivity of consumer health data. Certain Member States have specific arrangements for data processing in the context of the management of insurance contracts and the role of intermediaries. However, this has not been included in Belgian privacy legislation so far. In the meantime, the framework law has been discussed in committee and this issue has also been addressed. We had prepared an amendment on this subject, which we withdrew after consultation, because you indicated that the matter should actually be dealt with in a different place; as long as the problem is resolved, that is fine for me, but it will happen as soon as possible. There are problems on the ground at the moment. Can you tell me where you think this aspect should be taken care of?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u5	It is not about passing on the data as such, but about confirming that a transfer has been made. The argument quoted is not always correct, because under the new European rules there are different ways in which data can be processed and exchanged. This is possible, among other things, with the consent of the consumer, or still in the context of the execution of a contract. I think we're in that context here. In order for the broker to be able to process the data, permission must be given or it must take place in the context of the contract between the insured person and the broker. We cannot allow exceptions to that regulation; we can only clarify it. It is up to the Minister of Economic Affairs to clarify that. He must consider whether a draft law should be tabled or whether Parliament should take an initiative to clarify this situation. Actually, everything's settled in the GDPR. However, if there is to be an initiative, it will have to come from the Minister for Economic Affairs. We also had this discussion during the discussion of the framework law. The framework law regulates the general principles and they are clear. The GDPR clearly indicates the basis on which data can be processed and exchanged. If additional initiatives are needed, this case by case must be done and in this case the Minister for Economic Affairs can take an initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u6	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Do I understand correctly that if a customer has ticked the insurance proposal when entering into a policy that a duplicate of all correspondence may be delivered to the broker, that consent will continue to apply today? Or has the situation changed? I have a concrete example for you of the old system. If a customer applied for a policy and indicated where the correspondence should be sent, the correspondence came directly from the company to the customer, but a copy was also sent to the broker each time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u7	It is quite clear that, with the introduction of the new regulation, the authorisation given in the past for the purpose of using the data for the same purpose will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u8	Thank you very much, that is very clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u9	Mr President, Secretary of State, recently, Anglo-Saxon companies have decided to protect themselves against sexual scandals by proposing, upon hiring a new staff member, the signing of a love contract in which the employees undertake to reveal their relationship or future union with another staff member. It is estimated that 15 per cent of marriages were born from an employment relationship. An internal note calling for full transparency on intimate relationships between colleagues or superiors would also circulate in some companies. Indeed, the potential drifts associated with relations between colleagues or with a superior are numerous: conflicts of interest, favouritism, relationship of domination. These relationships can harm both the company and its employees. While the purpose of signing these love contracts is therefore to protect employees and the company, in the wake of the MeToo movement, which has freed women's voices about the attitudes, remarks and sexist gestures that they receive on a daily basis, this practice still raises questions, particularly with regard to privacy. Does the company have the right to interfere in the personal life of its employees? Moreover, the notion of a couple itself is very difficult to define. It is often complicated to know when two people become a couple. Therefore, do employees have to declare the simple kiss or appointment? It therefore seems rather complicated for employees to know when to notify their hierarchy of their love relationship. Finally, the signing of these contracts may be detrimental in the event of abuse, harassment or a relationship of domination in the couple. It will therefore be very difficult for a potential victim to justify these situations with a colleague once the love contract has been signed. Mr. Secretary of State, what do you think of this practice of forcing new employees to sign love contracts? Do you not find these contracts problematic in terms of privacy? What about the protection of those who claim to be victims of abuse? Could the introduction of love contracts be possible at home? How are relations between colleagues defined? Do Belgian companies already use this practice? What about public enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u10	Mrs. Ben Hamou, thank you. This is a very topical issue in the context of MeToo. For me, it is clear that these love contracts exist as an instrument to combat harassment. However, these contracts have a different purpose. The idea is to protect the company. In the legal framework in question, it is mainly the competences of my colleague Kris Peeters that cover the impact of contractual relations in the context of work. However, these contracts also have enormous privacy implications. For me, privacy – especially from the point of view of intimate relationships – remains a fundamental right. That is why we must remain vigilant. However, it is not an absolute right. In certain circumstances, a balance must be struck between the right to physical integrity and the right of companies. In this case, it is very clear that your question is concerned with the privacy and privacy of everyone in the professional context. This is a very personal notion: when does a love story begin and end? It's not always clear. We all know that. Nevertheless, the legislator has already taken steps to protect potential victims of an asymmetric relationship between people who do not have the same capacity for action or who have a hierarchical relationship. Thus, the law of 22 May 2014 protects victims of sexism both in the public space and, for example, in a professional context. Article 2 of the Act is intended to supplement the Act of 10 May 2007, by specifying that any individual who, in the field of labour relations, discriminates against a person, group or community on the basis of his or her sex shall also be punished. In addition, the Act of 11 June 2002 on protection against violence and moral or sexual harassment at work aims to provide employers with the necessary tools to prevent, protect themselves against and correct all forms of violence, since they constitute direct attacks on the well-being of workers. In short, many laws are intended to protect individuals in a professional context. In conclusion, the European Regulation recalls in Article 9 the principle of the prohibition of the processing of sensitive data such as those relating to sexual life – the link is therefore direct with the protection of privacy. However, two exceptions were made, provided that they met certain conditions, in particular with regard to labour law. In my view, a love contract does not seem to me to be possible in our context. In addition, many laws protect people in their working lives, whether against harassment or in their hierarchical relationships, which are not necessarily very positive. In any case, we must remain vigilant about this phenomenon of love contract, because it does not protect potential victims or companies against such behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. A question is actually written to Minister Peeters. I take it that if a romantic relationship is to be created within a company, it is, for you, a fundamental right to privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u12	Secretary of State, at the time of social networks, the creation of online profiles is constantly growing and, with it, the creation of false profiles. According to a French newspaper, in 2013, 61% of Internet traffic was generated by robots. It's pretty important to see that. In recent years, these robots that occupy the web have increased by 21%. With regard to Facebook profiles, 8.7% of users in 2012 were false profiles. They have now increased to 11 per cent. Similarly, Twitter has increased from 8.5 per cent to 10 per cent of false profile accounts. False profiles can be created for various reasons, but some motivations are a desire to harm: scam, voyeurism, personal revenge. These practices can have important consequences. It is particularly challenging to see that more and more false profiles are using photos of others to look even more like real profiles. Mr Secretary of State, in view of this situation, I have several questions. What mechanisms are in place to prevent or detect false accounts? In what concrete way can an individual confronted with the existence of a false account usurping his identity react? Are there any measures in place to alert users and raise awareness of this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u13	Mr President, it is well known that the various mechanisms put in place vary from site to site and are not necessarily made public by site administrators. However, we know that there are some elements that can be used to identify false accounts: photos, the number of contacts on the social network, the consistency of the profiles. All these elements play a role. If a contact is made with the holder of the false account, the private information exchanged is obviously also likely to provide clues as to the veracity of the identity of the person who is hiding behind the account. These are not just elements capable of leading to a presumption of false accounts. This presumption, after verification, will not always prove correct. Despite all the vigilance we can have, we must always be responsible for the communities we use. The tracking of false accounts remains a relatively difficult exercise. For people facing identity fraud, I advise you first to contact the site on which the profile exists, to report and try to eliminate this false account. Second, they may also apply to the court and file a complaint, in order to have the author convicted and possibly to claim damages for the damage suffered. As a first step, contact the website; in a second step, make a complaint to the police to try to find the perpetrators. I've lived it once before. Websites often react and block or remove these false profiles. The EU is sensitive to this problem and gives citizens more rights to keep control of their personal data. They may, for example, lodge a complaint in their own country, even if the company is not represented. This, in my view, is a great step forward. This improves the situation and facilitates complaints about the practices of certain websites or individuals. The Data Protection Authority will be able to collect and process complaints from citizens. It will be able to act more actively than before. Together with my colleague, Alexander De Croo, I try to see how to fight not only against fake profiles, but also against fake news, in collaboration with large companies. The aim is to be more vigilant, to raise awareness, but also to be able to react in case of false profile or identity theft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. Users will be reassured that a wide range of measures have been put in place in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, pending Mr Friart, I should like to inform you that Question No 25894 by Mr Peter Dedecker and Question No 25956 by Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau are transformed into written questions. Question No 25046 by Mrs Sonja Becq is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u16	Secretary of State, the WhatsApp app is an instant messaging system owned by Facebook, which has about a billion users worldwide. On 25 April, WhatsApp's spokesperson raised the minimum age of use in the European Union to 16 years, compared with 13 years so far. This increase in the age limit of use is linked to the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR). The GDPR provides for the age of sixteen, allowing Member States to reduce it to a maximum of thirteen years. I asked you recently about the room for manoeuvre left to the Member States about the legal age to take advantage of the services of the information society. You had justified how the age of thirteen was more appropriate, in particular by arguing "that too high a limitation would have an effect contrary to the effective protection envisaged and that the age of thirteen seems to be a balanced limit". The WhatsApp application is subject to the GDPR as long as it offers its services to the citizens of the Union. For the sake of uniformity, it seemed more appropriate for WhatsApp to keep the 16-year limit, as other Member States might not use the margin of manoeuvre left by the GDPR. Mr Secretary of State, Belgium has already opted for the age limit of thirteen years for the use of information society services. What is the situation in the other Member States? The WhatsApp application works in anticipation of the strict rules of the GDPR. Yet you clearly justified why the age of thirteen seemed the best solution. This lowering now seems unnecessary if the services of the information society align with the age of sixteen provided for by the GDPR. What is your opinion on this aspect of the question? Beyond the borders of the Union, WhatsApp maintains the age limit of thirteen years. In practical terms, questions arise as to the technical possibility for the application to verify the age of the user. You mentioned, in an answer to one of my questions, the possibility of using the ID card. Have you studied the legal and technical possibility of using this means? Finally, the conditions of use of WhatsApp provide for the possibility for young people who are not at the age required to use the application to ask a parent to accept the conditions on their behalf. Similarly, will the use of the parents' identity card be necessary? Wouldn't that be contradictory to the GDPR's protective rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u17	Mr Friart, we have opted for a minimum age of thirteen. At the end of the various consultations, it appeared to us that this was the right limit, since most young people used this application well before the age of 13. It seems to me that the same debate took place in other countries. For example, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Finland, Ireland, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom opted for the same threshold. The choice of Austria, Bulgaria, Cyprus and Italy was based on the minimum age of fourteen years. France, the Czech Republic and Slovenia have set the limit at 15 years. Croatia, Germany, Hungary, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Romania and Slovakia opted for 16 years. It is now up to each company - in this case WhatsApp - to decide on the minimum age, knowing that it will deprive itself of a market share, and to conduct its own control. This is his responsibility. Problems for businesses can result. That is why we have chosen to set the minimum age at thirteen. Verification is also possible via the ID card, under certain conditions, of course. For example, the controller must comply with the GDPR requirement, including the principle of data minimization. This also implies that WhatsApp only processes the data necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. As the purpose is to verify the date of birth of the user, only this last information could be processed. It is important to ensure that data stored on the chip of an ID card and accessible via a card reader is not limited to the date of birth alone. A problem could arise, since the controller could have access to more information. For children under 13 years of age, the use of parents' identity cards would obviously be a solution, which should meet the various elements advanced in my answer to the previous question. Again:minimization of data. We need to minimize data and, again, we need to respect all the principles contained in the GDPR, very clearly also in these cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u18	Minister, thank you for all this clarification. So, for those under the age of thirteen, using the parents' ID card would be a solution, which is a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u19	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the right to the protection of personal data is a fundamental right that is close and distinct from the right to privacy and protection. Electronic communications, the development of online social networks, cookies, etc., are constantly testing these rights and changing jurisprudence. Let us consider in particular the recognition by the Court of Justice of the European Union of this famous right to be forgotten in 2014. Fundamental rights have a number of characteristics, including that of being inalienable. This characteristic is expressed in the first preambular paragraph of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which considers it the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. However, a report entitled "my data are mine" proposes to create a property right in our data. Our data would become an informational heritage that we could sell freely. This idea, to say the least surprising, evokes the problem of insufficient control of our data. Since they only benefit the web giants at the moment, the think tank GénérationLibre proposes that they be able to benefit in the first place from the generator of this data, that is to say, from the person himself. It is apparent from a Trendwolves investigation that this idea might appeal. The feeling that our data escapes us in what is now called the "big data" leads almost four out of ten Belgians to think that "not to be able to ensure the protection of private data, as much as to sell them to multinationals!" Only 28% of respondents disagreed with this idea, this proposal. This bargaining, if permitted, could lead to drifts. Information monetization is becoming a growing concern in our digital economy. For the think tank, just as the industrial revolution has made intellectual property rights necessary, the digital revolution should create a property right in the data. Mr Secretary of State, are you aware of the opinion expressed by GénérationLibre? What are your observations? Are similar studies carried out in Belgium? A proposal is made to create a property right attached to private data. What is your opinion on this idea? Do you think the idea deserves a debate between various stakeholders in order to assess its potential and its disadvantages? Is this being debated at European level? Have positions already been expressed by certain actors (Member States, European Parliament, Commission, etc.)( )? Finally, it seems that there is little awareness among citizens of how they can protect their data. What tools could be put in place to improve the sense of control and thus make the auctioning of our private data less attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u20	The French think tank GénérationLibre published a report entitled "Mes data sont moi" in January 2018. This report analyses the French Civil Code in order to elaborate the hypothesis that personal data are property and that, as such, they are submitted under the French Civil Code on property. Consequently, the persons concerned are the owners of the property and may sell or rent it. The European Regulation is based on other texts, in particular Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Both articles affirm that everyone has the right to the protection of personal data. This right to the protection of personal data is inalienable. The basis of the European regulation is therefore quite different from that of the GénérationLibre analysis. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) provides for data to be processed on the basis of consent. Such consent may be withdrawn at any time. However, the data may be used in the performance of a contract, for which the consent must have been given freely. I am not aware of similar studies in Belgium. I know that Trendoo is an office that often has very important and interesting remarks to make but, to my knowledge, they have not conducted a study in Belgium. For the moment, both at European and Belgian level, the debate is focused on the implementation of the GDPR. In Belgium, since December, additional control has been exercised by the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, which has been transformed into the Belgian Data Protection Authority, giving it greater flexibility to act against GDPR infringements. I believe that the various measures taken give citizens more opportunities to protect their data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u21	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, everything about GDPR is very important and it is a good thing that it has been put in place. Thank you for the clarification you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u22	Mr President, Minister, Europe is at the forefront of data protection, particularly through its ultra-protective jurisprudence. The GDPR will further strengthen the right to data protection and repeal the 1995 Directive, widely interpreted by the Court of Justice. The new guarantees offered by the GDPR will be based on an essential obligation for data controllers, namely the obligation to provide information. It is because of the lack of information that the people concerned feel that the Internet can never be 100% secure. Indeed, in the misunderstanding of the economic potential of their data, they are being dispossessed of them. Very often, they accept general terms and conditions, cookies, etc., by simply clicking on or browsing a website, without knowing its content. According to a study by Carnegie Mellon University (The cost of Reading Privacy Policies), an average American signs nearly 1,500 terms of use per year, which would correspond to 76 days of reading! For example, the terms of use of the PayPal app are 74 pages long. In other words, it is impossible to read, especially since none of the clauses can be negotiated by the user. Another study conducted by Trendwolves among 750 Belgians, aged 18 to 40, came to contrasting conclusions about the perception of online security: 82% of respondents felt that they were not sufficiently informed about how to protect their private data; 60% of respondents did not know how to verify the reliability of a website or application. Citizens do not see clearly the boundary between private and public data. Nearly nine in ten people believe that their online identity will never be 100% protected. As we can see, the lack of information leads the person concerned to make "fictitious choices" – either accepting conditions without reading them – and leads to a feeling of insecurity. This observation is quite challenging even though the digital revolution is characterized by the advent of the knowledge society. Indeed, information has become more accessible, it is easily transmitted and spread through the Internet. The Belgian Cyber Security Guide (led by CCI, FEB and others) partially responds to the need for information as it is intended only for companies and their officials who process personal data. Mr Secretary of State, are other studies similar to that carried out by Trendwolves, on a more significant sample, available in Belgium? Have you ever asked citizens to change their passwords at Safer Internet Day on February 6th? These awareness-raising campaigns have a real impact and aim to make citizens more accountable for the fate of their personal data. Are you planning further information campaigns to increase citizens' awareness of the importance of their privacy? In France, CNIL has published a guide in the form of fact sheets to help professionals comply with the future GDPR. What about us? In addition to the Belgian Cybersecurity Guide, are other communication tools envisaged to help enterprises (SMEs and independents) to comply with the GDPR?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u23	Mr Friart, in 2017, a study was conducted at the instigation of Google and Test-Achats: his results were substantially the same as those of Trendwolves. About 1,000 Belgian Internet users were interviewed. A lack of knowledge of online security was noted. But in another survey conducted by the SPF Economy, two thirds of Belgians say they have confidence in the Internet but are concerned about the protection of their privacy and data. This means that many people are concerned about this subject and are trying to find out, which is why we are trying to help them and put the information online. As far as public information is concerned, we have carried out numerous information tours for SMEs but also for schools and young people, more specifically. We have carried out a wide campaign not only in Flanders but throughout the country. The Data Protection Authority has also taken the initiative to publish a guide for professionals like its French counterpart, the CNIL. It consists of thirteen steps to comply with the Regulations. Personally, I have always had regular meetings with the various companies as well as with other economic and social actors to hear their views and answer questions. We also have a private platform, where many sectoral organisations are represented. Here too, a lot of questions are asked and answered by us or by the Data Protection Authority. In addition, meetings have been held within federations and various organizations, on the spot, with their members, to explain what we are doing. A very important element is to be noted. The Regulation makes it very clear that the Data Protection Authority has not only the competence, but also the duty to really support the various data controllers and their subcontractors and to help them comply with the new rules. It urges those responsible for this Authority (formerly the Privacy Commission) to be extremely clear, to provide guidelines and information, to be very open, to communicate, to maintain a website that is very accessible and easily understandable. There is still an effort to make. That is why we are helping and encouraging this independent Authority to disseminate this information as quickly as possible. They've already put things in place. A contact form is available on their website, which has been developed. In addition, a GDPR platform is accessible for the various companies and sectors concerned. There is a list of FAQs (Frequently Asked Questions) and information is disseminated on how to react and act to comply with the GDPR. A great many initiatives have already been taken. I think almost everyone has talked about GDPR in recent months. I have received a number of e-mails from companies requesting access to a certain type of data or wishing to review their consent, for example. All this indicates that there has been a real interest in the subject. Around 25 May, a lot of information was provided. I take to heart the need to contact the team of "De zevende dag" and perhaps of "It's not every day Sunday" to broadcast every Sunday a section very specifically dedicated to data protection. I am very committed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u24	Don't forget the freedom of the press, don't you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u25	Secretary of State, the tests conducted by Google and Test-Achats confirm the results of Trendwolves. In addition, the information tour for young people and schools is very important and needs to be repeated. You have put in place many initiatives with professionals; they are important for businesses. Nevertheless, a lot of self-employed and small SMEs find it difficult to adapt to and implement them. A lot of work is to be done to get them to comply with this RMDP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u26	Deputy Prime Minister, the kick-off of summer sales is underway. From 30 June to 31 July, consumers who love shopping will be able to enjoy discounted prices on many items. Sales often attract crowds and to avoid a passage in the cabin, some buy immediately and then return to exchange items that do not match. An exchange is only possible upon presentation of the check-in ticket. However, some brands propose to delete it by replacing it with an electronic version of the ticket sent directly to the consumer's mailbox. This practice is observed in France in particular. In tests conducted by a large brand, the rate of acceptance of the e-ticket was close to 55%. However, other customers are still very attached to the paper. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, is this practice already observed in Belgium? What are your observations about the possibility of seeing the paper cash ticket disappear? Are Belgian consumers in favour of electronic cash tickets? What are the benefits of these dematerialised tickets for consumers and businesses? Is this practice compatible with GDPR? What would be the risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u27	Article 6 of the GDPR clearly states that certain basic conditions allow access to certain types of data. First, there must be clear consent; second, the performance of a contract. Another accepted basis of legitimacy in direct marketing is the weighting of interest. This is a weighting between the legitimate interest of the controller – for example, the company sending a direct marketing message – and the interest or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject. This weighting of interest must be carried out on a case-by-case basis. Where personal data are collected, a number of information must be communicated to the consumer: the name and address of the controller, the purpose of the processing, the existence of a right of opposition, the existence of a right of access and rectification, the recipients or categories of recipients of your data. All these elements must be communicated to the consumer in advance. After that, there remains the possibility, granted by the GDPR, of greater control for the citizen over his data. Control by the data protection authority is again possible. There is an opportunity to file a complaint. Here, too, there is the possibility for the authority to start an investigation or to ask for a change in certain practices. It is in this context that the application of the e-ticket concept could be considered, as it takes into account the principles I have quoted here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I note the fact that the consent of the parties concerned is required. What is also important is the weighting of business and consumer interests. The fact that a complaint can be made is an essential element.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u29	This concludes our work with the Secretary of State. Thank you, Secretary of State, for this year's questions and congratulations for your work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u30	Mr Minister, I am reminded that working groups would have been set up to rework a new Belgian Civil Code. These working groups would, however, only work in French and Dutch. However, if an expert in German legal terminology were added now, without delaying the work in progress, we could certainly avoid unnecessary and still too frequent delays in translation. Since the Civil Code has a significant social link, translation into German would therefore be very important in conjunction with the other two national languages. Moreover, this would be a very positive sign towards our German-speaking fellow citizens. Minister, what stage is the drafting of the new Belgian Civil Code? Would it not be possible to involve an expert in German legal terminology in the working groups involved in the drafting of the Civil Code? If you need some advice on the experts, I will be quite willing to provide you with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u31	Madam Jadin, thank you. The Government's agreement provides, in its point 6.3.1., that part of the Civil Code will be reformed during the parliamentary term. To this end, the ministerial decree of 30 September 2017 established several civil rights reform commissions. These commissions are made up of university professors, experts and representatives of the Justice FPS. They are responsible for drawing up a proposal for reform in matters falling within their remit. With regard to the progress of work, I can provide you with the following information. The proposals of the Law Reform Commissions on Obligations, Property and Evidence were the subject of a public consultation in early 2018 and were adapted on the basis of the comments made on that occasion. The Council of Ministers approved at first reading the preliminary drafts concerning the law of obligations (30 March), evidence (27 April) and property (4 May). These draft texts have been submitted to the Council of State for its opinion and the adaptations will again be the subject of political consultation within the government. These texts will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers for second reading. The public consultation on the proposal for the reform of the law of liability ended on 1 May this year. The remarks made are being considered by the Law Reform Commission. In view of the state of play, it is difficult to change the composition of the reform commissions at this stage. Translation into the German language usually takes place after publication of the versions in the Dutch and French languages, in accordance with a procedure laid down by law. It is again traditionally provided by the German Central Translation Service of the Inland FPS. In principle, therefore, it does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. Know, dear Madame Jadin, that I am open to any suggestion! However, as you will have seen, the traditional routes do not open easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, I welcome the progress made in the work, which is proceeding well. If I understand correctly, we will still have an opportunity to debate it under this Parliament. This is good news, especially since I think it is necessary to review certain provisions of civil law. Then I must confess that your answer is very "classical". The translation service, located in Malmedy, is usually responsible for translation work, according to the priorities set by the authorities of the German-speaking Community. In any case, I would point out that, in accordance with the Constitution, we should be able to obtain the three texts quickly. The absence of an association is obviously damaging, but I know that the SPF can also take the lead in consulting - depending on their means - experts in order to undertake the translations department by department. I'm pretty sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u33	Mr President, Minister, on 20 June 2018, we were informed by the press that the military intelligence service ADIV has set up a working group specifically concerned with possible foreign interference during the elections. The Minister of Defence clarified in Parliament that appropriate cyber security would be created in conjunction with decisive actions. Two days later, it was reported that the Security of the State will brief Belgian politicians on the risks of Russian interference during the upcoming elections, both the municipal and provincial elections in October, and the parliamentary elections in May of next year. Politicians who may be the target of interference will be sensitised. In addition, the security of the State, and I quote, 'will take a number of operational initiatives to evaluate the transmission of information and see if there is any interference with it. On protecting Belgian politicians from foreign hackers, I already asked the Prime Minister a question on 1 February 2017 That was the oral question No. 15839. The Prime Minister was then able to confirm that the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, which falls within its competence, examined what preventive initiatives could be taken and had also discussed this with the other European CCBs. Mr Minister, that is why we have the following questions. Firstly, what preventive measures will your services take to prevent interference by foreign powers? Secondly, it is unclear to me how people think municipal elections can be manipulated. Can you tell me how the State's Security wants to better protect the candidate municipal council members? Thirdly, will the security of the State also inform those responsible for the election offices and the counting offices and consider to what extent they should be better protected? Fourthly, have any contacts been made with other federal agencies on this issue? If so, with which and when? What was the result of it? If not, will there be partnerships in the future? Fifthly, can you clarify what operational initiatives will be taken to evaluate the transmission of information? Have there been any contacts in this connection with other federal bodies that have experience in this area? Sixthly, how many full-time equivalents will your services use to prevent any interference from being prevented and operational? Seventh, are your services involved in the working group set up by the ADIV? If not, how will they ensure that the information collected by operational actions is adequately shared by the ADIV? Finally, will State Security specifically deploy more employees on the election weekend compared to other weekends?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u34	Mr President, Minister, recently research journalists from NRC Handelsblad said that Russian Internet trolls on Twitter are trying to influence the public debate in the Netherlands and in our country. According to the journalists, this was done mainly by the frequent spread of reports on the Islamization of our culture. For example, hashtag islamkills is used. It is striking that this coincides with the attacks of 22 March 2016. You understand that's what I'm worried about. Unfortunately, Islamophobia is increasing in our society. You know that within a few months we will have municipal elections, and next year we will have Flemish, federal and European elections. At the beginning of last month, the outgoing Chairman of the Committee I, Guy Rapaille, said that he feared Russian interference in the Belgian elections. Once again, the meeting between US President Trump and Russian President Putin revealed that the election results in America had been influenced from Russia. This problem is very real. NATO's Parliamentary Assembly has also produced a report on Russian interference in NATO Member States' elections. I have the following questions on this issue, Minister. Firstly, have you heard of such Russian interference on our social media? Have you been briefed on this? If so, by whom and when? Secondly, how many Twitter accounts have been closed on Belgian questions in this case? Thirdly, what do you intend to do to safeguard the elections in October 2018 and in May 2019 from interference from Russia and other countries? Finally, is there any consultation with our neighbouring countries on how best to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u35	Mr President, on the basis of what the security of the state now knows, no Russian interference has yet been established on our social media. To date, the State Security has not taken any initiatives to close Twitter accounts in this respect. This doesn't mean there's no threat. The threat is primarily directed against the actual electoral process and not against candidate politicians. The Security of the State is ensuring that the election result is not manipulated. In addition, politicians, both at local and regional level and at federal level, may be the victims of interference by foreign powers intelligence services. This is a phenomenon which the State Security Service succeeds in its day-to-day work and on which it also informs the relevant ministers, if necessary. With a view to the elections, the VSSE will first of all raise awareness by briefing the competent authorities, administrations and individuals on the potential risks. The VSSE has consulted with the competent persons at Home Affairs and has informed them in detail. Everyone at the table was aware of the potential threat at the end of the interview. The necessary cyber-threat security measures were taken by the competent services. The VSSE has also been in contact with several other services dealing with the same threats, including the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium. The ADIV shall ensure the necessary coordination through the liaison officers appointed for this purpose. The VSSE has several teams, dealing with interference activities by various foreign intelligence services. These teams consist of inspectors who actively seek information on the ground, as well as analysts who further map and identify the phenomenon. We don't communicate the exact numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u36	Mr Minister, I have received a general answer without going into the questions I have asked. There is talk of Russia. You say there's no interference. I won't focus on Russia either. We know that the Belgacom hack in 2014, which lasted 2.5 years, was carried out by the British secret service GCHQ. Mrs Merkel's phone, and apparently also that of two former Chancellors, was bugged by the United States in 2013. Iran, North Korea, Romania and certainly Russia indeed has the reputation of being active in hacking and, in particular, in elections. I am thinking here of the elections in Bulgaria, Ukraine, Germany and, of course, the United States. In De Morgen yesterday, with reference to NRC Handelsblad, it is stated that the Internet Research Agency or the IRA, a so-called troll factory from St Petersburg, is sending out tweets with the aim of influencing public opinion. However, how is that compatible with local elections? There are 589 municipalities in Belgium: 308 in Flanders, 262 in Wallonia and 19 in the Brussels-Capital Region. I do not see at all how public opinion can be steered in a particular direction for local themes. However, on 22 June, the Security of the State, which falls within your jurisdiction, announced that Belgian politicians would report on the risks of Russian interference. I understand you're talking about awareness. I also assume that there will be monitoring, but I have still not received an answer to my question as to how elections, and certainly local elections, can be manipulated by foreign powers. How can polling or counting agencies be involved in this? So I'm just a little hungry. I also assume that you cannot or do not wish to share any further information at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that the public and social debate does not slip. After all, I believe that it is already difficult enough to keep things together. With regard to the fair and correct conduct of the forthcoming elections, first in October of this year and then at Flemish, federal and European level in May of next year, we must do everything we can to ensure that the electoral process is conducted correctly and fairly. I am confident that our services will follow this up and take the necessary steps. I believe that we should take the cyber threat very seriously. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister and the Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs, the necessary steps must be taken to minimise or even avoid interference in our civil debate and in the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u38	Mr President, the VAJA project is no longer continuing in its present form, while it was still in full development. You agree with this in the newspaper De Tijd, but you can make that clear by adding that the intention remains to set up a large database of all judgments and judgments. You also referred to the technology used as obsolete, because it does not allow artificial intelligence to be used to make targeted searches in the mass sentences. Moreover, an electronic signature could not be used either. That is why, as you stated, you asked the Institute of Judicial Training to carry out an analysis and to explore the market in order to be able to issue a new public tender. As an alternative to electronic transmission, you refer to MACH, but the first president of the Antwerp court of appeal disagreed, because that version does not guarantee authenticity. The College of Hoven and Courts has also informed you that it is failing as a partner in the upcoming IT projects. Mr Minister, can you tell me in detail why you stopped the VAJA database project in its current form? How much money has already been invested in the project? Why couldn't the VAJA database be completed and a new version was developed, while it turned out that it was possible afterwards to pass on the judgments and judgments already given? What will the new VAJA database differ from the old one? What improvements will be made that were not possible in the current VAJA database? How much budget do you pay for the new VAJA database? What is the timing for the project, from procurement and allocation to delivery? How is the authenticity of a document, sent electronically via MaCh, guaranteed? What initiatives will you take to lift the College of Hoven and Courts back on board as a partner in your IT projects? What impact does it have on current and future projects? What role does the college play?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u39	For the sake of clarity, the VAJA project with the aim of creating a database of judgments and judgments is continued in full. The expectations of the database have changed considerably in the course of the current legislature and rightly so. At the start of the project, it was mainly intended to use the database as a shipping hub of the sentences to the lawyers. This can be easier today by sending the judgments and judgments from the MACH application after they are digitally signed. The current VAJA application, which is only used in the courts of appeal for clarity, asks that the judgments or judgments are printed first and then signed manually and then re-scanned and sent digitally. The law on the reduction of workload, which we recently approved, provides that by 31 December 2019 the sentences must be sent to the parties and the lawyers within five working days. This should be possible for the peace courts, police courts, correctional courts and courts of commerce by spring 2019, as they will be equipped with MACH. Today, a VAJA database is expected to be an information file that can be exploited by artificial intelligent systems, for example, to achieve a predictable justice. In addition, it should be able to form a basis for statistical information and analysis. The database should also replace the paper archives of judgments and judgments, a step we will take on 1 January 2019 for the deed of civil status. In addition, it should be the authentic source, allowing criminal sentences to be anonymised and placed on a publicly accessible website, so that its integral reading is no longer necessary. With regard to the latter aspect, the Court has approved a constitutional amendment which will shortly be submitted to the Senate for approval. Finally, such a database should be the source of justice, which is initially available to the magistrate, so that it no longer needs to use external service providers who offer it. To meet all these new challenges, a more modern technology is needed. As for your second question, the further roll-out of the old VAJA database without including a digital signature process would not have made sense. Again, the database exists in the courts of appeal, but the question is whether we should roll out to other courts of the judicial order. Although the supplier was asked from the start of this legislature and repeatedly to make proposals to build in the digital signature, only two months ago a technology was proposed that would be able to achieve this. As I have indicated, we are now so far advanced in the roll-out of MACH in the courts of first instance, commerce, labour and for the peace courts that it makes more sense to organise the signature and transmission of judgments from that application. As far as your third question is concerned, I refer to the answer to the first question. As far as your fourth question on the sending of judgments and the functionality of the old database is concerned, I have just given the timing. Of course, we will continue to use the old database to send the judgments of the courts, as long as the alternative is not available. It will be for my successor to work that out further. First of all, we are focusing on the courts with peace courts and police courts, which, incidentally, produce more than 90% of the sentences and therefore have to send them. It is not quite clear to us what you mean by your fifth question. The judgment will be authentic by the digital signature of the Registrar and the Judge. By sending the verdict over a secure network between the Justice and the recipients, initially the lawyers, the recipient also knows with certainty the sender of the judgment. That is not guaranteed with the present technology, by the way. I have no knowledge of any abuse. I hope that answers your question. As far as your sixth question is concerned, my services have always tried to involve the lectures and their representatives in the development of ICT. This is also apparent from the writing to which you refer and in which the College itself lists some of the discussions. Steering committees were set up for most ICT projects, in which many magistrates and clerks actively participate. In many cases, they are appointed by the colleges and are personally members of the college. There is, moreover, a central ICT consultation body, called P-ICT-O, on which the representatives of the college were always present. ICT projects are complex and can be frustrating for those who face them for the first time. In the letter to which you refer, the College wanted to point out in particular that it does not wish to assume any responsibility for the ICT strategy. It is true that this responsibility under the law still belongs to the Minister today. In the context of self-determination, it will in future be transferred to the judicial system itself. I think I've put things in the right perspective with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u40	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u41	For several years now, Minister, Justice has been trying to get rid of the rising costs of justice. An essential part of these costs are the shipping costs that were around EUR 20 million a few years ago. The objective was to reduce these significantly. That is why I have a number of questions. Can you indicate which projects have been launched in recent years to reduce port costs? How did these projects reduce port costs? What is the status of each of these projects? Which ones have already been implemented? What are the deadlines for completion? Which projects are tested where, and which are the preliminary test results? What is the concrete state of play of the e-Box project? Can you indicate the size of the impact each project has had on the shipping costs? Can you give the evolution of the shipping costs for the past five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u42	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, several computer projects within the Justice Department have an impact on port costs. The following projects have been implemented or at least in progress. Crossborder leads to a significant reduction in the number of letters, especially by sending the minutes together and the immediate collection. Through the national register, the judicial experts, the translators and the interpreters themselves can submit and adapt their files electronically. Justice uses an electronic platform to communicate with experts and translators. The Assuralia-MACH project abolishes the paper shipments between police patrols and insurance companies. The Flux Penal Fines allows police courts to electronically send the conviction bulletins to the Central Criminal Register and the FPS Finance. By the Central Criminal Register, local criminal records have ceased to exist since 1 January 2018, and thus also the questioning by the judicial order, as well as its updating after each court ruling. Finally, the Regsol platform for insolvency proceedings has digitised all communication flows under this procedure. As far as the e-Box project is concerned, 27 000 registered shipments between the peace courts and the Belgian Official Journal are already being sent electronically each year, peace courts, lawyers and counters can communicate electronically with additional document flows, the roll-out of notaries is ongoing and one stream of data with notaries is already operational. In the coming year the judgments and judgments will be sent to the lawyers. The law I mentioned in a previous question provides for a deadline of 31 December 2019 at the latest, the so-called Workload Reduction Act. All other shipments can then be done via the same channel. Finally, the collective debt regime register and the regime register that will start at the end of this year, first quarter of 2019, will also entail significant port cost reductions. The specific impact of the measures is difficult to assess separately, but in absolute terms the shipping costs should have decreased by 10% since 2015. They amounted to 21 million euros in 2015 and 18.9 million euros in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u43	Minister, you say that a number of movements have been made. After all, we all know that these port charges have been very high in the past and that something has to be done about them. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u44	Mr President, Minister, my question is about night work and performance on weekends. This raises a few questions. For interpreters, the night starts from 10:00 p.m. while for all other night work services it usually starts from 8:00 p.m. The High Council for Self-employed and SMEs does not understand the reason for this difference and finds no justification for it in the report to the King of the Royal Decree of 22 December 2016 The Supreme Court calls for the night concept for the performance of the sworn translators-interpreters to begin at 7 p.m. in accordance with the system applicable to the pro-Deo attorneys. If the Supreme Court were not to be followed, it considered that at least the performances carried out from 8 p.m. onwards should be regarded as night work, in accordance with the other regulations. The rules are different for the pro-Deo attorneys, especially since the introduction of the Royal Decree of 22 December 2016, which shortened the period of night work and halved the supplement for Saturday performance. The weekend for lawyers with continuous double fees starts on Friday night at 7:00 p.m. and ends on Monday morning at 7:00 p.m. A holiday starts for lawyers already on the evening before the holiday at 19h and runs until the morning after the holiday 7h. In other words, in the case of a preliminaries in which both a pro-Deo lawyer and an interpreter are present, both are subject to a different arrangement in terms of weekend work and night work. Hence the following questions. For what reason were definitions of night and weekend performance different from those of pro-Deo attorneys laid down for interpreters? Do you want to take steps to eliminate this difference? If so, what and at what time? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u45	The general rules on night work do indeed determine the concept of night work as work done between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m. This regulation also allows for the negotiation of different provisions on the basis of the specific nature of the professional activity. For example, there is a derogation within the public office. For interpreters, weekend and night work was aligned with the rules applicable in the public office. This is based on the fact that performance started after 6 p.m. usually does not go through until after 10 p.m. The aim is to continue to be treated as evenly as possible, taking into account the specific nature of the occupational activity already mentioned. Each tariff decision shall be reviewed after two years. The first evaluation will be launched at the beginning of 2019. What has been agreed for the pro-Deo attorneys is an arrangement that differs from that which applies within the public office. The activities of lawyers are difficult to equate with those of interpreters. In any event, the situation shall be reviewed in the light of the results of the planned evaluations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u46	Minister, it is good that we will look at the issue in the evaluation, but it is strange that when, for example, a lawyer and an interpreter are called under the Salduz legislation, one is already working on a night's performance and the other is not. That doesn't make any sense. Harmonisation in one sense or another would be quite logical. It is clear that the situation is now quite detrimental to the interpreters and slightly more beneficial to the lawyers. I do not call for the benefit of lawyers to be reduced, but it is useful and appropriate that the interpreters and translators who have to provide urgent assistance should also be covered by similar rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u47	Minister, at the meeting of 25 April 2018, I asked you an oral question on match fixing. I then converted that question into a written question. That question was about the number of notifications of match fixing at the Football Fraud Contact Point. In your reply you mentioned that in 2014 2 notifications of match fixing were received, in 2015 3 notifications, in 2016 2 notifications, in 2017 11 notifications, and in 2018 6 notifications. Not every report automatically leads to a criminal investigation. Of the reports received in 2014, 1 report led to a criminal investigation. In your reply, you stated that this file would soon be brought to court. In 2015, two reports led to an investigation, but that was dismissed for lack of evidence. In 2016, no criminal investigation was launched. In 2017, 8 were launched, of which 3 were dismissed for lack of evidence. In 2018, 3 studies were launched. Of these files, 3 related to paid football, 1 to amateur football and 1 to the U21 competition for promise players. Furthermore, 1 file has to do with an official foreign tournament. The other reports have to do with other sports or criminal facts. In a press release by the National Platform Sports Fraud, following an action to proactively study suspicious game phases during World Championships competitions, Mr.Goudesone, who is a member of the Football Fraud Meldpunt on behalf of the federal judicial police, quoted from a study by Ghent University. This showed that the match fixing by gokmafias is only 10% of all match fixing. Players can also be lured with the promise of a personal transfer, prospects for personal sponsorship, or they can be personally threatened and extorted by sports agents, by organizers of matches, by trainers, by referees, or by family and friends. I have a number of questions for you, Minister. First of all, since my request of 25 April 2018, have any additional notifications been received at the Football Fraud Contact Point? If so, how many? Did a report come in about a game that was played during the World Championship? Secondly, have there been files since my question of 25 April 2018 that led to a criminal investigation? Thirdly, for the additional investigations, can you tell us in which series the matches were played? Fourthly, is there a court ruling in the 2014 file? If so, what was the verdict? Is this the only case so far for which a complaint has been lodged leading to a conviction? Fifthly, can you clarify what was meant in your reply to my oral question by "an official foreign tournament"? Is this about a tournament organized by UEFA? I'm thinking about the Europa League, the Champions League or the European Championship or FIFA? If no, can you clarify what other official foreign tournament is involved? Was a Belgian club or a Belgian player involved? Or can you clarify what else was the link to Belgium? Does the information available to the hotline also show that the gambling mafia accounts for only 10% of all match fixing? Which types of match fixing are most commonly reported? Is that pressure from family or friends, pressure from a future transfer or extortion? Is there a noticeable difference depending on the level at which the games take place, for example the difference between paid football and amateur football or youth football? My second question concerns any suspicious game phases at the World Championship. With the competitions England-Belgium and Panama-Tunisia, the group phase of the 2018 World Cup was completed. A press release dated 14 June 2018 on your personal web site shows that federal judicial agents of the national sports fraud platform would follow the six games from poule G. The remaining 42 games were watched by agents from seven other European countries. It was the first time in Belgium that so proactively watched football matches to analyze suspicious game phases. The police officers would carefully review every action and, above all, further analyse strange game phases. In addition, they would also follow tips that came in. Any suspicious or unusual game situation that one of the eight participating teams would record would be tested with the national football associations, FIFA and possibly even a player's club to see if an upcoming transfer could, for example, play a role. Finally, Mr Goudesone, who is a member of the Sports Fraud Information Point on behalf of the Federal Judicial Police, mentioned that match fixing by gokmafia is only 10% of all match fixing and that there were other reasons. I have the following questions, Minister. First of all, were there any concrete clues that made it necessary to watch pro-active football matches for the first time during the World Championship? Secondly, have there ever been any indications of match fixing during previous World Cup? Thirdly, does the Sports Fraud Report consider that the risk of a form of match fixing is greater during matches at the World Championships than during matches of clubs of first class A or B in Belgium, which would lead them to follow up and analyse the matches of Pool G themselves? Fourthly, will other games be proactively viewed in the future by the Sports Fraud Information Point? If so, what competitions would those be? On what criteria are these competitions selected? Fifth, how many people have watched sports fraud matches at the World Cup on behalf of the Meldpunt? What profiles did these people have? Were externals used, for example former players or former farewells? Sixthly, during competitions in the group stage, my question dates from during the group stage, but we have moved much further, so is it also about the further competitions suspicious or unusual situations identified? If so, how was that done? Did a member of the Belgian Sports Fraud Information Point establish this? Have the federal court, the national sports federations concerned and/or FIFA already been informed? My seventh question is missing since the tournament is already done. Eighth, how many tips have been received by the Belgian services about suspicious or unusual situations? How many of these tips were followed up? Are there any tips that came from football journalists or analysts? Ninth, have any tips come in to any of the seven other services about suspicious or unusual situations? How many of these tips were followed up?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u48	Mr Vermeulen, in reply to your questions 1 to 4, since your question of 25 April, no additional information has been received or criminal investigations initiated. There is also no court ruling in the 2014 file to which you referred. Given the secrecy of the investigation, this information cannot currently be disclosed. That is an answer to your question 5. In connection with question 6, Dr. Els De Waegeneer of Ghent University, department of Sport Management, will soon publish the results of her scientific study. At a recent colloquium, she indicated that of the athletes who admitted they had been approached to manipulate the results of their competition, only about 10 percent indicated gambling as a reason for this manipulation. Since the establishment of the National Platform in 2016, 80% of the notifications to the Sports Fraud Notice relate to manipulations of sports competitions for sport reasons. 20 percent of the reports are gambling related. Those are the answers to your question No. 26424. Then I come to your question No. 26425. I will start with questions 1 and 2, the National Platform is trying to apply the principles of the conventions on combating manipulation of sports competitions in practice, including in particular the Macolin Convention, which was signed by Belgium in 2016. Prevention and detection include this, so that the proactive viewing of the matches is included. There were no concrete indications of match fixing to this world championship. A teleconference was held every week from the National Platform with the national coordinators of the eight countries participating in the monitoring of the competitions. On questions 3 and 4, the answer is negative. All competitions in general are followed by all members of the National Platform. With regard to your questions five to seven, two policemen on behalf of the Sports Fraud Notice have watched the matches themselves. The monitoring of the competitions is also done by exchanging information with various national and international partners such as FIFA, Interpol and Europol. No unusual situations have been identified at present. As for your questions eight and nine, no tips have come in. For your tenth question, please refer to my earlier answer. In that I referred to the results of the research by Professor De Waegeneer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have asked a lot of questions to follow up on the updating of the situation. You say that there were no additional reports and that the court has not yet ruled on the file of 2014. I understand that you cannot further clarify that official foreign tournament because of the secret of the investigation. Other cases could then also be discovered which could harm the investigation. You also referred to Professor De Waegeneer's study. On 10 July there was a colloquium in Tubeke. I was registered for this, but I was unfortunately unable to be present because I had to chair the Committee on the Interior at the time. It took a little longer than originally planned. That there were no suspicious game phases at the World Championships with the Red Devils does not make any sense at all. I wouldn't understand how someone would get into their head to do something wrong in a place where there's so much attention and where every stage is repeated nicely with a lot of cameras. That is why I found it very strange that the National Platform for Sports fraud said that they would investigate those matches, as if there were a greater threat of match fixing than in the classic games of first class A and B and especially among amateurs. In the meantime, we know from international research and experience that the biggest risks do not occur in the big games, in the top teams and among the top players, but in teams and players who have a bit more difficulty. I am thinking of the previous matches of SK Lierse, which led to the Zheyun Ye case. I am also thinking of players who had it harder and who apparently had too little revenue compared to their spending pattern. I think I'm gonna go further on this case. During that colloquium in Tubize, organized by the Pro League and the Football Association, other issues were discussed in addition to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u50	Mr Minister, I do not come here often to ask questions in the Committee on Justice, and when I do, it is because I am confronted with situations that are really problematic. We're used to questioning you about the insufficient number of magistrates. You're sometimes asked about the clerks. However, the situation of judicial personnel in the various courts and districts is more rarely addressed. However, following the reorganization of the courts resulting from the consolidation of the various judicial districts, the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office suffers from a significant shortage of staff. Indeed, the framework is only 79.69% completed. This is how this prosecutor's office is the one where the administrative staff is the lowest. In addition, as a result of long-term illness and pension departures, the framework is now only 73.29%. So we find ourselves with a cumulative delay in different files. Judges are rightly trying to eliminate delays, they are trying to increase the number of cases and judgements they are dealing with, but without sufficient administrative assistance, this is obviously impossible. Therefore, I found myself faced with members of the Liège judicial staff who told me that they had to choose every day between following up on the report of a child in danger and ill-treatment, reporting of an assaulted person or responding to a municipality waiting for a response concerning the naturalisation or regularisation of a citizen. The situation therefore becomes untenable for them. Minister, what knowledge do you have of judicial staff in Liège, but also in other districts? Is there a requirement to combine the number of magistrates and the number of staff assigned to assist them in the processing of cases? How can understaffing services be left to deal with cases of crimes, offences, children at risk, abused children? What steps are you taking, in consultation with human resources managers, to improve this situation? Apparently, you are promising the creation of 51 new places in all the public prosecutor's offices and the auditorates. In view of the situation in Liège, but also in other boroughs – even if the situation is less serious – do you think that this is enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u51	Mrs Gerkens, the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office currently has 63 judges for a 70-member cadre. In addition, two vacant places are open. This will increase the number of judges to 65, making 93 per cent of the staff. As far as judicial personnel are concerned, the secretariat of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Liège is 178. Currently, 168 people are on duty. They represent 146.58 full-time equivalents. Six level B secretaries will soon be appointed and one assistant will be appointed by deployment, bringing the total to 153.58 full-time equivalents. In addition, a new set of vacant places is currently subject to the agreement of the Finance Inspectorate. This plan of vacant places brings the number 2018/02 and plans to recruit again three secretaries and four assistants for Liège, bringing the total to 160.58 full-time equivalents or 90% of the framework for judicial staff. Finally, a contractual assistant will remain in service until 31 December 2018. In addition, 22 prosecutors' lawyers and criminologists are currently on duty, i.e. 18.3 full-time equivalents. Two package lawyers have just passed their selection and will be contracted. There are no specific criteria regulating the correlation between the number of judges and judicial staff, but the principle of good administration requires a balanced distribution between the different categories. My administration constantly monitors the situation of the different courts and, depending on the monitoring of the staff credit, consults with the representatives of the College of Courts and Courts for the situation of the registries and the College of Public Prosecutions for the prosecutors' secretariats, in order to determine the priorities in the possible actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u52	Mr Minister, I naturally note that the situation is indeed catastrophic, but that various commitments will be made and that, therefore, in principle, the situation will improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u53	The figures I quoted, 73.29% actually, I didn't invent them. I didn't count people. These figures are from your administration's records. I can only base myself on that. So much the better if they are no longer relevant or if they are too weak and you make corrections, which I think are essential. According to my information, what is also a problem is the lack of speed and responsiveness to fill vacancies and to identify missing staff in positions that are identified as understaffed. I think we really need to be quick. The procedures appear to be lengthy and require designation orders. It would be necessary to anticipate the management of the human resources necessary to make possible the work of judges, so that access to justice for citizens is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u54	Questions Nos 26434, 26435 and 26436 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u55	I imagine Mr. Frédéric was already talking to Mr. Clarinval about his question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u56	Mr President, I hope not to be interrupted by Mr Clarinval! Minister, the Dutch-speaking press has taught us that since October, a zorghostel has been welcoming some 20 residents in the city of Antwerp. It's a beautiful city! It is a care facility that accommodates homeless people, people in deep care and where they are allowed to use illicit substances, with psychosocial guidance. In response to my parliamentary question, the Minister of Health said: "As part of the treatment of a specific group of homeless people facing multiple problems, Antwerp permanently welcomes homeless people who are highly dependent in the zorghostel. They are accompanied on an ongoing basis by multidisciplinary stakeholders. Their room is considered as all other private dwellings. The focus is on providing opportunities and rebuilding a decent life. Rehabilitation is the objective of the project but being weaned is not a condition for entering the project. It wouldn't make sense." Mr Minister, my political group agrees with President N-VA of the CPAS, Mr Fons Duchateau, who is at the initiative of the project, that it is important to support innovative projects to get people out of dependence by reducing nuisances and insecurity. Other comparable projects, although not identical, exist in other parts of the country, among others in Liège, which will set up a lower-risk consumer room on its territory in September, not to promote drug use but to have a new link in a comprehensive anti-drug policy that combines prevention and repression. Mr Minister, are the zorghostel that exists in Antwerp and the consumer room that will soon be set up in Liège criminally reprehensible under Article 3, § 2 of the Law of 24 February 1921 which prohibits the facilitation of the use of drugs by providing a place for this purpose? If so, how do the judges of Antwerp and Liège react? What is your reaction, Minister of Justice? Should we not allow parliamentarians to put back on the table proposals for legislation aimed at lifting, under specific conditions, the prohibitions referred to in section 3 of the 1921 Act, in order to break this delicate situation together?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u57	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, the Antwerp model of a care home differs from the areas dedicated to controlled drug use that Liège intends to open. A controlled area of consumption is intended to accommodate and enable people dependent on drugs to inject illegal drugs they have brought into a medically controlled environment. On the other hand, the ambition of a care home is to provide permanent housing for homeless people covered by the CPAS, most of whom present a problem of severe drug addiction, paying extra attention to care and supervision. There is no doubt that facilities for such persons should be integrated into existing drug and criminal policy. I have asked for the position adopted by the College of Attorneys General. The Committee considers that, if the intention is to provide spaces for controlled drug use, it is appropriate to adapt Article 3(2) of the Drugs Act. On the one hand, the College underlines the criminal responsibility of persons who contribute to the creation or exploitation of these places or persons who offer their assistance, for example in cases where the consumer dies as a result of an overdose. On the other hand, the College also raises the criminal liability of consumers in these spaces or environments. However, it is open to the establishment of a local-level classification policy without any follow-up, certainly within the framework of the current guidelines of Circular 15/2015. The College did not specifically pronounce itself on the model of the care shelters offered in Antwerp. I also put this issue on the agenda of the College of Attorneys General meeting with the federated entities and the Minister of Justice, scheduled for September.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. It seems to me full of hope with regard to the projects implemented. I don't feel like you're objecting or you're rejecting the idea. The College of Attorneys General delivered an open opinion. We will be very attentive to the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u59	Question No 26457 by Mrs Van Cauter was asked in plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u60	Minister, the royal decree of 26 February 2018 amending various royal decrees implementing the law on arms was published to the Belgian monitor on 28 February 2018. The purpose of this Royal Decree is, inter alia, to ensure the implementation of article 45/1 of the Arms Act, which concerns the new period of regularization of arms subject to authorization, which opened on 1 March and will close on 31 December. This Royal Decree is the subject of an action for annulment before the Administrative Dispute Section of the Council of State. The application for annulment was filed by the ASBL Défense active des amateurs d'armes on 24 April 2018. It comes to my mind that some possessors of weapons who wish to regularize their weapons do not start the process because they wonder what will be the fate of their weapon if the royal decree is cancelled, while their weapon is being regularized. As far as the regulation of firearms is concerned, on 14 March you announced the campaign you planned to launch, in order to inform the public of the opening of this regulation. The FPS site is now up-to-date, but, Minister, the majority of the population is still not aware of this regularization. Personally, I'm on the lookout for information, I don't see anything in newspapers or on social networks. Moreover, it is my responsibility that it would be difficult to obtain the paper brochure on these provisions; it would already be exhausted. Minister, in the event that the Royal Decree of 26 February 2018 amending various royal decrees implementing the Arms Act, concerning the loan, neutralization and destruction of weapons and laying down the procedure referred to in section 45/1 of the Weapons Act was annulled, what fate would be reserved for weapons which were allegedly declared by their owner but for which approval - as collector, for example - would not have been obtained yet? Should a distinction be made between an owner who has made an appointment with the police to make a statement, but who has not yet made a declaration, and the owner who has gone to the police and would therefore have a statement receipt? Minister, can you confirm to me that if this royal order were annulled, all arrangements would be made so that the regularizations could continue in accordance with legal certainty until 31 December 2018? As far as the regularization period is concerned, do you have any answers to my questions? Will any initiatives be taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u61	Mr President, dear colleague, my administration and I are using every possible means to announce to the public the new reporting period for firearms. Our press releases have been published in various Belgian media. In the French-speaking press, the reporting period was mentioned in particular by RTBF, Le Soir, L'Avenir and Sud Presse. We have posted posts on Twitter and Facebook. A plethora of information is available on the Justice FPS website. Since the beginning of June, there has been a digital informative brochure in Dutch, French and German. All individuals, associations, police areas, provinces, etc. can request free printed copies via our website. The first print is currently being distributed. A second impression is expected very soon. I can confirm that an action for annulment was brought against the Royal Order governing the reporting period in more detail. It is particularly interesting to note that the possibility of a declaration benefiting many possessors of weapons is being questioned precisely by an association in favour of possessors of weapons. In any case, we prepare our defence with confidence. Moreover, a very hypothetical annulment of the order would in no way affect the exemption from criminal proceedings, since the exemption is provided for by law. Anyone capable of presenting a receipt of a statement to the police can claim this amnesty, even if the continuation of the procedure has not yet been closed. Anyone who has only shown his intention to make a statement but who does not yet have a declaration receipt is not covered by the same security. In all cases, I will make every effort to prevent the prosecution of persons making a declaration and subject to the legal conditions of an amnesty. Citizens can therefore continue to declare their weapons without concern, as thousands of people have done so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for your very clear answer, which will allow a whole series of people to know exactly what to do with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u63	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to a question I raised earlier concerning telephone charges in prisons, in particular an answer to a question dated 13 June 2018. However, a number of questions have been left open in the course of a thorough examination of the answer. You replied that the telephone module in Prison Cloud and the telephony file that is intended to provide adapted tariffs are separate from each other. Apparently, both cabling require up to the level of the cell, which requires a lead time of several years. But the question is actually to reduce tariffs in the short term. That is why I would like to clarify a number of further questions. Does the wiring you spoke of relate to the telephony file that will provide customized rates, or is it only necessary for Prison cloud? Is it about both? If there is a need for cabling for both, can you clarify whether it is about the same cabling or whether a cabling should be installed twice? If Prison cloud will be realized by 2020, why is there still investment in a parallel telephony network that will not be realized until 2022 according to your timing? According to the persons concerned, some prisons already attracted cabling to the cells in 2014-2015. What is the reason why the telephony file takes so much time? Will the wiring be drawn to each cell or not? I would like to clarify the number of cells that will and will not have telephone access and the reason for this. Why not give priority to an invitation to tender which merely provides for an adjustment of the call rates on the common existing telephones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u64	The cabling currently provided up to or down to the cell serves as preparation for the installation of cell telephony. However, this network cable can also be used to install, for example, a service platform for inmates. No second separate cabling will therefore have to be provided. It is not the case that a digital platform will be operational in all prisons by 2020. Prison cloud is just one variant of such a platform. A call for tenders will be necessary and therefore other suppliers may also be eligible. The budget required for this is significantly higher than that already allowing for cell telephony, which makes it difficult to achieve a generalised use of a digital platform in the short and medium term. The new telephone file has indeed taken a long time. There are several reasons for this, but not the least the technology that has evolved strongly in recent years, which meant that the technical part had to be adapted as well as the many questions and comments made by firms during the tendering procedure. The only prison where cabling was previously installed is Hasselt's. This happened at a key moment in the context of the construction of the first new prisons in Beveren, Leuze and Marche. It was finally chosen to equip these facilities with this platform in the first instance. In establishments where there is no renovation on the agenda in the short term, cabling to or from the cell will be provided. For the establishments where a renovation is planned, the current telephones in the corridor will be adapted so that the prisoners can call at a cheaper rate. A total of 6 899 cells will be provided with cell telephony. For 1 558 cells this will not be the case and telephones will be placed in the corridor. Unfortunately, changing the telephone rates with the current installation was not possible in contractual terms. The company that installs and maintains the system was, according to the old contractual provisions, able to determine the rates themselves. This is one of the reasons why the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions has launched a new cell telephony charge book in which it will be able to determine the rates itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u65	As you know, I have already asked a lot of questions on this subject. If I hear now that it was contractually stipulated that the supplier himself can determine the telephone charges, then I wonder how such contracts have ever been concluded, how the supplier has obtained these contracts and what the profits are for these companies. I therefore hope that it will move forward very quickly because I do not think that this situation is legal if it is thoroughly legally analysed. I hope that your administration will quickly work on this so that correct rates can be applied to prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u66	Mr Minister, because of the lack of a coordinated European policy, many migrants are currently using networks of smugglers and find themselves in a very vulnerable situation. The Government considered it necessary to develop and adopt a specific action plan for 2015-2018 to combat trafficking in human beings. This action plan is intended to focus on repressive measures, better knowledge of the phenomenon, training, prevention and attention to migrant victims. The focus is therefore on the fight against smugglers and not against migrant victims. As Minister of Justice, you have a positive injunction power to give you criminal policy directives, including research and prosecution policy. In a democratic state like ours, transparency about the directives given seems fundamental to us. On Wednesday 4 July, the European Parliament considered a resolution adopted by the Committee on Civil Liberties. This resolution calls on the countries of the European Union to include an exception in their national legislation in order to ensure that individuals and civil society organisations assisting migrants on humanitarian grounds are not prosecuted. In Belgium, Article 77 of the Law of 15 December 1980 punishes aid for illegal residence but specifies that it does not apply "if aid is offered for mainly humanitarian reasons". Article 77 bis of the same law criminalizes trafficking in human beings, but specifies that this offence is constituted only when it is committed "with a view to obtaining, directly or indirectly, a property advantage".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u67	In Belgium, thousands of citizens, organised in particular around the Citizens' Refugee Support Platform, volunteered to host migrants, sometimes in irregular residence or, most often, in transit. Minister, could you shed some light on the priorities of criminal policy and the guidelines given on judicial investigations in the fight against trafficking in human beings? Should the criminal provisions of the Act of 15 December 1980 be understood in such a way as to ensure that individuals or organizations who assist or host migrants, I would point out, are not targeted? Or, on the contrary, are the Citizens' Platform for Support to Refugees and the Belgian citizens in solidarity with these volunteers in the focus of the policy of prosecution of trafficking in human beings? Finally, the press reports the existence of networks that appear to organize the sexual exploitation of migrant women with impunity. The press also reported on prosecutions for trafficking in human beings against the shelterers but also against migrants who had attempted to cross to Britain themselves. Could you clarify whether the guidelines on the prosecution of trafficking in human beings give priority to important traffickers suspected of having personally enriched themselves and of having endangered or exploited identifiable victims, or whether, on the contrary, they are also intended to target homeless migrants attempting to arrange their own illegal passage from the border to Great Britain? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u68	Mr Hellings, the criminal policy relating to smugglers of migrants is determined by the offences set out in articles 77 and 77 bis et seq. of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens. Through the arrangement of these measures, the legislator has provided for a mechanism distinguishing different behaviours of increasing gravity. Assistance to enter, stay and transit for a primarily humanitarian purpose is not punishable. According to the second paragraph of Article 77, aid for entry, stay and non-profit transit shall be punishable on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 77. Aid for entry, stay and transit with profit constitutes trafficking in human beings punishable on the basis of Article 77a. Articles 77b to 77d determine three levels of aggravating circumstances. The priority of criminal policies is the pursuit of the most serious acts, in particular those involving minors and those endangering the lives of victims of trafficking. It is only within this framework that the prosecution is carried out. This means that aid for a primarily humanitarian purpose is not being pursued. It has been considered very recently that the unintentioned assistance for the passage of migrants into England, consisting in the identification of places of embarkation in the port of Zeebrugge and the provision of a port plan accompanied by indications of the route to be followed in order to embark cannot be considered as humanitarian aid. If priority is given to minors and to endangering the lives of victims, the services concerned pay particular attention to the fight against trafficking in human beings, in accordance with the 2016-2019 Comprehensive Security Framework Notes and the National Security Plan. Migrants who, without the assistance of anyone, intend to travel illegally to England are not covered by the above provisions, but it will be necessary to check in each case whether they are actually victims of traffickers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u69	Minister, thank you for the clarity of the statement made. I fully agree with you on the methods that are currently being used. You have put the emphasis on what constitutes the tipping point: the enrichment of traffickers. It is this problem that must mobilize our police forces and our justice as a matter of priority. I will transfer with great care and caution our present exchange to the Secretary of State in charge of Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u70	Question No 26473 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u71	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask this question in connection with legislation which has recently been adapted to deal with disputes and alternative disputes. I received a question from the training organizations on the interpretation of this point. It is a good thing to try to streamline training pathways. It has always been the intention to give the necessary quality. It is logical that a transitional period should be provided for in this respect. Therefore, Article 239 provides that, for the formation of the mediators providing training on 1 January 2019, the bodies may continue to organise this training until 1 September 2019 under the same requirements and conditions. Thus, pending the new rules, the guarantee is given not only that the training will continue, but also that those who have started such training will be able to obtain their diploma or certificate. It now appears that for some the training is organized in a slightly different way. The result is that they are sometimes confronted with two routes, namely a part of the practice and a part of the theory. As a result, they do not stop on 1 September, but continue their training in a second course. In fact, therefore, the training is organised per calendar year and not per school year, which causes problems for those involved. Mr Minister, can the organisations, but above all the students, be guaranteed that the training can be successfully completed? Is the interpretation that who started the training can also complete it, if the start is within the deadline of 1 September 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Becq, the provisions concerning the Federal Conciliation Committee and the recognitions will enter into force by 1 January 2019. As you rightly point out, Article 239 introduced a transitional provision in order to allow the bodies responsible for the formation of mediators to continue to organise the training in accordance with the old system until 1 September 2019, in order to ensure continuity and facilitate the transition between the old and the new system. The legislator has decided to retain the specialisations. This means that there will always be two courses: basic training and specialization training in accordance with the current system. The training bodies which organize basic training for six months, from January to June, and then for six months, from September to December, specialized training are in the same situation as other training bodies which organize training over two academic years, basic training from September to September and specialization training from September to September. I give a concrete example to the training institutions which organise training over two years, according to the academic calendar. For those following the initial training from 1 September 2018 to 30 June 2019, the old formula applies. If they succeed, they will start specialisation on 1 September 2019 until June 2020 and follow the training according to the new formula. I would also like to give an example to the institutions which organise training over six months. For those following basic training from 1 January 2019 to June 2019, the old formula applies. If they succeed, they will start specialisation on 1 September 2019 until December 2019, but according to the new formula. As you can see, the situation is the same and the continuation of the old training after 1 September 2019 should not be foreseen. All training bodies will have to adapt to the new rules from 1 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Can I rephrase that in my own words, just to be clear? I understand that basic training is independent. The initial training certificate may be issued in the first year of a two-year cycle or in the first six months, if six months are worked. Specialization will follow that but will then follow the new rules. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u74	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to a question that I asked you at the beginning of June in response to an anonymous letter about the abuses in Merksplas prison. One aspect of this was medical care for inmates, not insignificant. There seems to be a discrepancy between the answer you gave me at the time and what's being spotted on the scene. You say that three doctors have been appointed, while according to the complaints and the supervisory committee there is only one doctor for the 450 inmates. You're saying that the complaints against that doctor were unfounded, while apparently there's an investigation in the Order of Doctors. This investigation is evidently due to a question or complaint from the supervisory committee itself on the basis of multiple complaints received by it itself and direct complaints from prisoners. You didn't mention that in your reply. It's quite possible you didn't have that information. That's why I have the following questions for you. What are your findings on this diverse information? How many doctors are effectively employed in Merksplas prison? Is it about a doctor or three doctors? Are you aware of an investigation by the Order of Doctors against the prison doctor? What's the status? What solutions are possible in the short term to address this situation, which is perceived by the prisoners as very problematic?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u76	Three doctors work in Merksplas, all in good order with regard to the Order of Doctors and entitled to practise the profession of physician. The penitentiary administration has no knowledge of complaints to the Order of Doctors. It is true that the order only communicates about complaints with the doctors involved. There have already been talks on the ground between the management and the central health service of the prisons, as well as with the supervisory committee. The supervisory committee has already made complaints, but they were not such as to give rise to intervention on the part of the administration or to decide that there would be structural problems in the establishment. For the sake of completeness, one of the three general doctors works at a rate of one hundred hours a month, of which one weekend out of three. Two others act as substitutes for this holder and perform one weekend out of three in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for this information. I can see that in the case of complaints to the Order of Doctors, other bodies are not automatically informed of this and that no state of affairs is even communicated to the complainant. Perhaps only the Order of Doctors and the doctor concerned are aware of the state of play. Nevertheless, it is an important fact, taking into account the persistent complaints about the way in which one of the doctors apparently carries out his activities. When doctors are active in prison it is important that they do so in a very correct way. If there are complaints, they must be seriously investigated in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u78	Mr President, Minister, following a decision of the Court of Cassation of 1 March 2017 and on the basis of the principle of jurisdictional privilege, the Kazakhgate judicial file was transferred to the Mons Court of Appeal. On 7 May, the Commission announced the indictment of Mr Armand De Decker, Minister of State. Since then, she has not provided any information concerning the magistrate concerned by this investigation, Mr. Godbille, whose presence in the file justified the application of this principle of jurisdictional privilege. On the French side, it seems that the investigation is progressing well. At the beginning of June, the French press announced that the former French Minister of the Interior Claude Guéant had been placed in police custody and then summoned by the investigating judge, in the context of this case, on suspicion of interference in the Belgian legislative process. The European aviation group Airbus was placed on Friday 22 June as an assisted witness following a hearing by the investigating judges. Finally, according to the website www.lessor.org, fifteen documents from the Directorate General of Internal Security (DGSI), dating from 2008 to 2017 and dealing with the French part of the file, will be declassified in whole or in part following a request by the three French investigating judges. Given the seriousness of the facts, it is important that this investigation be completed and that cooperation with the French judicial authorities be optimal. Minister, how many investigators are seconded to Belgium for this investigation? How many investigators are seconded to France for the same investigation? How does collaboration with the French judicial authorities take place? Have you received any information from the French authorities on the elements justifying Mr. Guéant's custody and the status of assisted witness of Airbus? Has Belgian justice had access to, or will it have access to, the declassified documents of the DGSI? Did the case before the Court of Cassation justify the application of the principle of jurisdictional privilege? If not, within what time frame do you think this will be the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u79	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I have consulted the College of Prosecutors General and on the basis of the information received by the General Prosecutor's Office in Mons, I can provide you with the following information. The investigation is carried out in Belgium by two investigators from the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption of the Federal Police, as well as by a tax investigator. The number of investigators assigned to this investigation in France is unknown. Collaboration with the French judicial authorities is optimal. The Airbus section is foreign to the Belgian judge. Your question cannot therefore be answered. The General Prosecutor's Office of Mons has no information in this regard. Finally, the other questions cannot at present be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u80	Minister, I take note of your answer. I respect the autonomy and secrecy of the judicial process. I simply note that two investigators plus one is not much given the scale of the case. I understand that, on the French side, much greater means are available to carry it out. I hope that, as often happens, there is more going on in this matter – from a judicial point of view – that what you can tell me about it in this committee and that summer will be usefully used to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u81	The RTBF published this weekend the particularly challenging testimony of a undocumented man who accused a Brussels local elected official of promising to facilitate or allow him to regularise in exchange for a sum of 3,000 euros. If the facts are to be verified, they are potentially particularly serious, in the head of a public agent and given the sensitivity of the issue of regularization. Given the potentially serious nature of this case, it is important that justice act quickly to clarify the facts. Minister, can you tell me if you have read the facts of the RTBF? Has the justice system become aware of this? Can you tell me whether the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office has decided, as a result of this publication, to start an information or an instruction in order to verify the materiality of these facts? If not, do you intend to use your right of positive injunction for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u82	Mr Gilkinet, after consulting the College of Prosecutors General, I can inform you that the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels has decided to open judicial information on the facts you are talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u83	This is a first step to clarify the situation and to ascertain whether these facts, which I have described as particularly serious, have occurred. I hope that sufficient resources are put in place to carry out this judicial information as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u84	Mr Minister, according to an article in the weekly Le Vif/L'Express of 21 June last year, the UN, concerned by Belgium's compliance with the rules on the freezing of Libyan funds with Euroclear, about which I have asked you several times, sent a delegation of three experts to Brussels in mid-May to investigate this issue. According to the weekly, these three experts have approached a judge of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office where an investigation for the laundering of these Libyan funds is under way. Minister, can you confirm to me that a UN delegation has visited Belgium to investigate the Libyan funds file? This has been confirmed to me in the meantime by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Has this investigation been preceded by a request for judicial cooperation or an equivalent? Are you aware of the reasons behind this UN investigation in Belgium? Do you confirm that this delegation met with the magistrate of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office responsible for this case? If so, what was the purpose of this meeting? Can you give us the results of this investigation? Do you confirm that this UN delegation must return to Belgium to pursue it? Should she meet with other members of the judiciary in this context? Which ones and for what purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u85	Mr Gilkinet, the Brussels Prosecutor has informed me that an investigation is under way into the facts to which you refer in your question. Currently, a money-laundering offence is included. Since the investigation is secret, it is impossible at this stage for me to provide you with more information on this file. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office has not received any separate request for judicial cooperation – or equivalent – on this instruction. The King's Prosecutor is seeking information from the investigating magistrate regarding the United Nations visit. I will not hesitate to keep you informed as soon as I have received an answer. It is clear that Belgium offers its full cooperation to the United Nations, other supranational organizations and other countries involved in the search for stolen funds from several States during the Arab Spring. To this end, Belgium has been actively participating since 2016 in the Stolen Asset Recovery Initiative (StAR) launched by Interpol and the United Nations Office against Organized Crime. To that end, in November 2017, I was invited to Vienna for the Conference of States on the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u86	Minister, thank you. You confirm the existence of an investigation and suspicion of particularly serious money laundering, with particularly high amounts. In view of the information that is circulating on this subject, I think that all the light needs to be shed on this issue. On the one hand, there is the judicial process, but on the other hand, I expect members of the government – the Ministers of Finance, Justice and Foreign Affairs – to cooperate fully with Parliament to clarify this issue of potentially illegally frozen funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u87	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lahaye-Battheu has converted 26592 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u88	Mr President, before going into this question, I would like to say that I have my combined question No. 26614, under item 16, have not yet been able to put it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u89	Do you think it's okay to ask them after this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u90	Yes, Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, in response to my previous question about the call centre in Beveren prison, you informed me that a first evaluation of the ongoing pilot project in Beveren prison would take place in the spring of this year, with five prisoners working a limited number of hours as a call centre employee. The employer, So Services, collaborates with the public service Cellmade. In the meantime it is summer and I would like to inform you about this evaluation. Minister, is So Services satisfied with the duties performed by the prisoners? Will the number of prisoners employed and the number of hours they perform be increased? Have irregularities been observed or identified which require due attention? Have any problems been reported regarding the use of the software Prison cloud? What is your decision after the evaluation? Will this pilot project be rolled out to other prisons? If so, in what period?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u91	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, So Services, the external partner with which the public service is working Cellmade, is very pleased with the project and with the work done by the detainees. So Services is very positive about the different facets of the pilot project, such as the thorough screening and informed selection of the inmates according to the required communication skills, courtesy, customer friendliness, stress resistance, result orientation and PC skills, such as the commitment and full interest with which the selected inmates have followed and perfected the training offered and such as the professional way in which the inmates worked towards the customers, including by following the written script, respectful and polite handling of people, supplementing the software tool and so on. The knowledge of the two country languages of the detainees was also praised. To your second question, I can answer that the number of prisoners employed depends on the assignments that So Services provides. The tasks entrusted to Cellmade are currently completed. There is no provision for enlargement. To your third question I can answer that security was a priority in the development of this project. A safety buffer was therefore built in. Monitoring and quality assurance have not so far revealed any security incidents. Your fourth question, the role of Prison cloud is to ensure a secure connection to the call center from which the phone calls are set up, for a controlled use of this connection and for an infrastructure that allows inmates to perform the phone calls. No significant problems have been identified. Some minor adjustments had to be made to allow the use of the headphones made available. Thanks to a smooth collaboration between Cellmade, the ICT department of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions and the external partner, small problems could be resolved quickly. Your fifth question, the pilot project has been positive and within DG EPI there is an interest in extending the project to other prisons. Cellmade is therefore a requesting party for new assignments, but in this of course depends on an offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. This project was indeed very welcomed, both in terms of screening, selection, professionalism and even multilingualism. I am therefore pleased that it was a success. It is important for prisoners to be able to spend their days as meaningfully as possible and this mission certainly contributes to this. I hope Cellmade will be able to see further enlargement in the future, which apparently is not there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u93	Mr Hedebouw and Mr Maingain are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u94	Minister, on 21 June last, the Constitutional Court ruled that people who have insufficient resources and seek legal assistance should no longer pay brake money to their pro-Deo attorney. Since the reform of second-line assistance in September 2016, the brake money has been introduced, with the aim of providing a threshold, so that people would not go lightly to court. Several poverty groups complained against this reform to the Constitutional Court and were right there as regards the brake money. According to the Constitutional Court, the fee of up to EUR 50 per procedure would be contrary to Article 23 of the Constitution which guarantees legal assistance to all eligible persons. The Constitutional Court finds it contradictory to ask for money for the initiation of judicial proceedings to those claiming a pro-Deo lawyer, just because they do not have sufficient resources. I have the following questions. Firstly, what amount of brake money has been paid since the reform of second-line assistance? Can you give me the numbers by front desk association? Secondly, do you see a reduction in the number of judicial proceedings since the reform? In other words, has one of the aims, in particular the reduction of the workload of the courts, been achieved? Thirdly, is it an option to see if there can be more pro bono instead of pro boo? I am thinking, for example, of a defence for a police court where many lawyers are already present. Perhaps it is possible to add an extra case when we are already there? Finally, have you already been in contact with the poverty groups to see whether an alternative solution can be developed which, on the one hand, will help the users of the second-line assistance, but on the other hand will not deny them access?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u95	Mrs Uyttersprot, through the introduction of a flat-rate contribution for the person receiving second-line legal assistance, I have implemented the government agreement. The Council of State stated in its opinion of 17 February 2016 that the imposition of a modest financial contribution for persons who are not entirely financially incompetent is not in itself contrary to the standstill principle. The many exceptions provided for were intended to grant an exemption to persons who were financially unable to do so. In its judgment of 21 June 2018, the Constitutional Court now finds that, despite these exemptions, the standstill principle has been infringed. I can only comply with the wisdom of the Constitutional Court. In the discussions on the law of 6 July 2016, I explained that access to justice should not be hindered, but that I am and remains in favour of having everyone think twice before taking the step to start legal proceedings. This was the reasoning behind the introduction of a personal contribution. The judgment of 21 June 2018 in paragraph B17.4 determines its impact on the person seeking justice. The Constitutional Court states that the consequences of the partially annulled provision are maintained as regards the contributions collected by lawyers in the cases by which the lawyer reported to the Legal Assistance Office on 31 August 2018. The OVB informs me that the Flemish lawyers have collected a sum of 142 230 euros as a flat-rate contribution per appointment of a lawyer and a sum of 128 125 euros as a contribution per instance and per procedure. Lawyers affiliated with the Ordre des barreaus francophones et germanophone (OBFG) collected a total amount of 114,920 euros of flat-rate contributions per designation and an amount of 281,810 euros, the total contribution per instance and by procedure. The figures for the judicial year 2017-2018 will not be available until October of this year, following the review of cases closed in second-line legal aid and led by the presidents of legal aid offices. Mrs Uyttersprot, you also asked whether we could see a reduction in the number of judicial proceedings since the reform. The number of appointments of a lawyer under legal assistance decreased by 17% for the whole country between the 2015-2016 and 2016-2017 judicial year. At the OVB there is a decrease of 12 % and at avocats.be by 23 %. The number of appointments has been falling systematically for years. This trend has been more pronounced for the first year of the reform. I don't have any figures for 2017 or 2018. At present and in the absence of more detailed figures, it would be premature to draw conclusions from these data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u96	Minister, you know our position on the brake money. We must ensure, on the one hand, that everyone has access to justice. That's obvious. That is also a constitutional right. On the other hand, procedures should not be carried out too lightly, which is why, as you have said, the brake charge for a very limited number of categories was introduced. The workload has apparently been reduced and decreased, at least for the number of cases pro bono. I'll go over the numbers again. In the future, lawyers, professional organisations and everything that goes with them will be able to think about the pro bono system. After all, people go to the counter because they want to help people. There is therefore no harm in considering the proposals before us on the future of the profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u97	Minister, in December last year I asked you a question following the audit of the Health Inspectorate in Flanders, which showed that the internal legal situation of interns would not be sufficiently regulated. The protocol to the UN Convention against Torture signed in 2005 is still optional and has not yet been ratified because there is no agreement between the Federal State and the Länder to establish such a prevention mechanism. In your reply in December, you indicated that you would consult with the follow-up committee, in which the FPS Health and the Flemish Health Inspectorate are also represented, to see how they supervise the internal legal status of the patients in the regular psychiatric care institutions, mainly as regards the treatment of complaints. Following the results of the consultation, you would make an evaluation and consider how the handling of complaints from interns within the FPCs can be improved and supported. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have you in the meantime consulted the Länder on the ratification of the Convention against Torture? If so, has an agreement been reached? If not, when will this consultation take place? Will ratification still be possible for this legislature? What's that gonna depend on? Have you been able to make an evaluation following consultation with the follow-up committee? If so, what are the results? If not, when is that planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u98	Mrs Uyttersprot, with regard to the ratification of the optional protocol to the Convention against Torture and according to the data of the Foreign Office, the Parliaments of the Member States have approved this protocol and at present only the federal level has to approve it, through your Chamber of Representatives. An instrument of ratification may also be drawn up after approval by the Chamber, in accordance with the data provided by the Foreign Affairs Office. This instrument may be deposited with the depositary only after the establishment of the national prevention mechanism. The ratification of international treaties is the responsibility of my colleague Didier Reynders. I therefore refer you to him for further information. In connection with the handling of complaints within the FPCs, I can confirm that after contacts with the Health Inspectorate, it has been decided that any complaint that comes to them from interned persons who are posted or their family members will be sent to the follow-up committee so that they can deal with it further. Each complaint shall be dealt with personally. Responses can be discussed at the follow-up committee meetings with the FPC, if they reveal structural problems. So far, this procedure has been successful. As a result, there is no adjustment in this area at the moment. The protocol agreement between the Federal State and the Flemish Community on the exercise of inspection powers in the forensic psychiatric centres is currently being discussed, but it concerns the monitoring of the quality of care and is independent of the prevention mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u100	Mr President, Minister, I have already submitted this question in writing. You will notice that I am mainly requesting figures. Thanks to the international exchange of bank data, the tax authorities currently have a lot of information about bank accounts held by Belgians abroad. The tax authorities use these data in the context of tax controls. However, the legal possibilities of the tax administration and the BBI are limited as there are strict tax limitation periods. Even in the case of fraud, the valuation options are limited to the last 7 years. In the case of old capital, built up in the tax-deprecated period with non-declared tax revenues, the tax authorities cannot start any tax investigations in this respect. In addition to tax infringements, criminal offences relating to, for example, money laundering have often been committed in such cases. This is also confirmed in the FCI's recent activity report. The FCI states, I quote: 'These fraud cases may give rise to criminal prosecution and conviction for the underlying money laundering offences. This is also the case if the capital invested in a foreign account, a foreign life insurance policy or in a foreign legal arrangement is subject to a tax limitation." The limitation periods for criminal offences are much wider than the tax limitation periods. A recent judgment of the court of Ghent, in connection with the partial confiscation of funds in a Luxembourg bank account and the conviction of a 91-year-old woman, shows that the court has effective means of prosecuting tax-deprived capital. Your colleague, the Minister for Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, has already announced that files, in which taxpayers do not wish to make use of the possibility of tax regularisation and the payment of high fines, will be transferred to the courts. In the context of an efficient and effective approach to tax fraud, even if it concerns old, black capital, it is extremely important that the files are effectively brought to court and not dismissed. Mr Minister, can you confirm that files of tax-depleting capital, which are presented by the tax administration but also by the FCI, will be effectively examined and, if necessary, brought to court? Are you prepared to release the necessary resources to ensure that these fraudsters are effectively prosecuted? Finally, can you give an overview of the number of files brought to court in 2014 to 2017, in the context of tax fraud and related breaches of money laundering legislation? Please distinguish between the Dutch and French languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u101	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, when the CFI prosecutors receive a file on money laundering offences, the magistrate first checks whether the initiation of an investigation is appropriate, in particular whether there is a real possibility of effective seizure of funds from which the forfeiture may later be claimed for the criminal court. The tax-delayed files are also examined in this way. The same applies to notifications because of the tax administration. Secondly, as you know, specifically for the detection and prosecution of tax offences, the office of deputy prosecutor of the King, specialising in tax matters, was created. These magistrates have a degree and expertise in tax and other forms of financial crime. The Programme Act of 1 July 2016 extended the staff framework by 15 units, from 15 to 30. Actually, only 24 out of 30 places are filled. Implementation of the framework is a priority and is regulated in the vacancy plans, in consultation with the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, other substitutes can also prosecute for tax offences. Thirdly, in the context of this oral question, I am unfortunately unable to provide you with detailed statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u102	Minister, I can certainly understand that last answer. In the meantime, my question has been submitted in writing a few months ago. This aside. I'll wait for the answer. In any case, Minister Van Overtveldt, with his new, stricter, regularisation laws, with reversal of the burden of proof, has finally worked on a rigorous approach to tax-depleting capital. While it was possible to do regularizations lightly for only income, capital must now always be regularized. Previous regularisations were possible with a fine of 6% of the capital, whereas the fine now amounts to about 40%. Regularisation can, of course, only have a lasting success if, in addition to spontaneous regularisation, there is also active prosecution of tax-barred, but not yet criminally-barred, capital. We therefore hope that your services will make full use of this and go after these capitals. A number of parquets already do a good job, but especially in the south of the country this is not always the case. We will be happy to follow this up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u103	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you several questions about the conditions of detention in our prisons. Recently, we learned that the FPS Justice plans to remove acting nurses. At the same time, the Justice FPS will open 50 statutory posts for the whole of Belgium. However, this number does not cover the total working time of temporary workers. All prisons will be affected by this decision, but it also seems that Brussels is particularly affected. Thus, in Saint-Gilles, the team of nurses will increase from 19 full-time equivalents (FTEs) to 13.7. This decision is difficult for us to understand because we already know that our prisons are currently facing a cruel shortage of resources and staff. The CPT regularly reminds us of this. The CPT also called on the Belgian authorities to increase the number of nurses at Lantin prison. It also recommended doubling the number of nurses at Leuze-en-Hainaut prison. Minister, do you confirm this information? What are the numbers of nursing positions that would be eliminated? What is the reason for this reorganization, for this abolition? Don't you think it's essential to increase the number of nurses over time rather than reduce it, as the FPS Justice seems to be leading?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u104	Mr. President, Mr. Vanden Burre, currently about 100 nurses are employed in prisons by an acting agency. They represent about 70 FTEs. Given that the cost of an acting staff member is significantly higher than the cost of hiring the same acting staff member, which in this case is almost double the cost, it was chosen to transform a significant part of these acting positions into regular hirings. In view of this, a significant number of interim nurses have also registered for the selection test organised by the Selor and are seeking recruitment as State personnel. Indeed, 50 jobs were declared vacant. However, the other temporary jobs have not been terminated. The same will apply to jobs that would not be filled through this recruitment procedure. Therefore, this measure will not reduce the number of nurses. This operation therefore merely involves the integration of interim contracts into the statutory nursing framework. This is a transfer of budgetary resources for greater efficiency and better investment in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u105	Minister, I am pleased to learn that the total number of nurses will not be reduced. I will carefully observe the figures you have given us and we will ask you again about this matter if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-18-54-commissie-ic954x.u106	This reply concludes our business of questions for this session.
