ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u1	Madam Minister, I refer to my written question K 1211, in which I requested a lot of figures. This question concerns the prescription of dust name and the delivery of the cheapest product by the pharmacist. The latest figures submitted date from 2015. However, I understand from the administration that more recent figures are available. First of all, why are the numbers three years behind? I could understand a difference of a year, because it also takes time to process the figures. However, three years is a long time. This also makes it difficult for Parliament to follow up on the dossiers. You often take measures that have an effect, for example on the cheapest products. Parliament then wants to know whether these measures are effective. Secondly, as a minister, you have taken measures to stimulate the prescription of dust names. How can you verify with figures from three years ago whether these measures are effective? Thirdly, what are the latest figures available to you? Why is Parliament not getting those figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u2	Mrs Van Camp, first of all, you should know that the administration has never experienced such a number of questions and questions about figures for four years now. They regularly inform the Cabinet that they cannot continue to be strongholds. After all, there is a great deal to be done and a great deal of reform needs to be prepared and implemented. Apparently, you were given figures from three years ago. When I became a Member of Parliament in 1999, the reports were dated five years ago. I wasn't satisfied with that either, so I understand you. We have asked for more recent figures. The administration has taken the time to look up those figures for your question which dates back to July 19th. I now have the figures from 2011 to 2017. I understand your question, but I also understand the sputtering. Those tables seem simple, but all data should be looked up separately. Nothing is as easy for an administration as leaving a question somewhere, something that does not go with us. I'll give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u3	Madam Minister, I assume that I can see from those figures whether the measure to prescribe the cheapest medicines has an effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u4	The effect is certainly not visible, quite the contrary. As you requested, the figures were split into Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. Of course, it's not the patients, it's the prescribers. That measure has long been included in the Medicomut agreement. We have also done a reinforcement, but so far the prescribers do not have the prescription on dust name in the pen or the computer. We impose it, we oblige it, but if they don't, so be it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u5	During the budgetary negotiations we indicated that we believe that we can go further in this respect. We agree that measures must be taken and we welcome them, but a first look at the figures and what you are saying shows that there is still work to be done. We are talking about taxpayers' money, so as far as we are concerned, every euro must be turned around. I will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u6	Flemish deaf people are entitled to tolkuren-L, where L stands for living conditions, but apparently the number is limited to 18 hours a year. It is important to provide an interpreter where necessary, even outside those L-hours. Recently, the Flemish Minister of Welfare indicated that, for example, Child and Family should provide interpreters themselves, in accordance with the UN Convention. The same applies to courts and police. Apparently, that hasn't been settled for the hospitals yet. Some institutions are correctly committed to this, but others are hiding behind the fact that the deaf are calling on the 18 toll courses-L. In 2017, for example, around 8 % of the total number of Flemish tolkuren-L was used for hospital use, while the hospitals themselves should provide interpreters. I don't think that's right. Madam Secretary, are you aware that some hospitals do not provide a deaf interpreter? What do you think of that? Are you, like us, of the opinion that the tolkuren-L, as its number is limited to 18 hours and that society, for example, should be saved as much as possible from the police and the hospitals themselves? What do you think is the desirable situation? Finally, if you believe that the hospitals themselves should provide deaf interpreters, will you, like your Flemish colleague, take steps to ensure that the hospitals under your jurisdiction that do not do so take responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u7	Mrs Van Camp, I know the problem of lack of language assistance in hospitals. I regret that the rights of deaf patients are compromised. Unia is preparing an opinion on the issue of deaf interpreters in health care, but this has been announced months ago and it has not yet arrived. My administration also took part in the hearings where the current situation has been mapped out. Recommendations are now being prepared. We checked. Unia's report should normally be available during this month. Then it will be thoroughly examined. For more than one reason, hospitals should ensure their accessibility to persons with disabilities, including in the form of intervention by deaf interpreters. This is also provided for in Article 9 (2) of the UN Convention of 13 December 2006, in the Decree of 10 July 2008 of the Flemish Community on equal opportunities and equal treatment, and in the Decree of 12 December 2008 of the French Community on the fight against certain forms of discrimination, le décret relatif à la lutte contre certaines formes de discrimination. In all those texts, the refusal of reasonable adjustments for a person with a disability is considered to be a form of discrimination, which is prohibited. Then there is the patient law, which says that the patient is entitled to information about his state of health and that communication with the patient must be in a clear language. In the case of deaf people a deaf interpreter indeed seems necessary. It is indeed up to the hospital to provide for mediation by deaf interpretation. It cannot claim the living hours allocated by the Flemish Community to deaf people; it must therefore also pay for it, and I think that there is a bit of a problem there. Nevertheless, I believe that this will have to be continued on the basis of the report and the hearings mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u8	Madam Minister, since you are involved, I hope that you will give the order to speed up the submission of the opinion, since you believe that the dossier has been waiting for months. I will certainly urge my colleagues to insist on this. Once the opinion has been delivered, we can take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u9	Madam President, Minister, last summer there was a debate in the media on a secret field trial of genetically modified maize using a new technique, the CRISPR method, on which there was no clear legislation at the time. The European Commission had asked the Member States to exercise restraint with regard to permits because the legal status was not yet complete and I believe that the federal government had agreed to do so. I shall skip the whole explanation of the precise method of CRISPR, as it has been discussed several times. The bottom line is that researchers can do DNA hacking and the opponents fear that this will endanger biodiversity. When I submitted my question a while ago, I asked, among other things, about the ruling of the European Court of Justice, but a judgment has already been issued stating that the above method is covered by the legal status of GMOs. The other questions remain and are the following. Why was this test field launched in an atmosphere of secrecy? Is it true that the VIB was licensed? Why was there no waiting in Belgium for more clarity on the ruling of the Court of Justice and on the position of the European Commission? What biosecurity measures should the VIB comply with? Do you hold consultations and consultations with the Flemish and Walloon Ministers responsible for the Environment? Now that you know the contents of the judgment, are you considering a new evaluation of the permit or not? Can you guarantee that any results of this trial, patents and spin-offs, will not be taken over by the bayers and monsantos we know? Can I have access to the file with which the VIB applied for a permit and to the answer of the competent FPS, with the corresponding scientific advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u10	(...) My comprehensive answer to a number of questions was discussed with the Minister for the Environment because, as you know, I am not alone in this matter. The pilot project to which you refer concerns genetically modified maize, as amended by the use of the CRISPR/Cas9 technique. The FPS Public Health received a question from the Flemish Institute of Biotechnology in June 2016. On the basis of the scientific advice of Sciensano and after consultation with the offices of the Federal Ministers of Health, Agriculture and the Environment, the FPS considered that this technique did not fall within the scope of the Directive 2001/18/EC. In practice, this implied that the provisions of the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005 regulating the deliberate release into the environment as well as the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms or products containing them, which transpose the Directive into Belgian law, should not be applied. So this field trial wasn't set up in secret, as you say. I did not hear this until the project was compromised, but the institutions were consulted. Again, this didn't happen in secret. The FPS Public Health also notified this decision to the VIB in November 2016. The VIB could therefore start the field trial with the CRISPR/Cas9 maize without following the procedures laid down in the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005. However, it was specified that the exemption from the application of the KB applies only provided that the developed plants no longer contain any trace of exogenous DNA use in the intermediate phase. So the DNA that could have come in in the intermediate phase of genetic modification has to be out. Moreover, it was also mentioned that the analysis was specific to the case submitted and therefore not necessarily applicable to other plants developed through CRISPR/Cas9. The administration of the Flemish Region was consulted and considered that it was not competent to decide on the scope of the 2005 Royal Decree. I would remind you that there is no clear European regulatory framework for this CRISPR/Cas9 technique. In June 2015, the European Commission announced that it would provide Member States and stakeholders with a legal analysis of this issue by 2015. According to my services, this announced analysis has never been published. This has led the Member States to apply the provisions of the 2001 Directive according to their own interpretation. Germany, the United Kingdom, Finland, Sweden and the Netherlands have all taken a similar position to that of Belgium on the dossier. There have therefore been consultations between a number of European Member States. The November 2016 letter addressed to the VIB specified that the given interpretation could be modified according to a legislative amendment or a subsequent interpretation by the European Commission or the European Court of Justice. This is clearly the case here, with the ruling of the European Court of Justice on 25 July. Your question came in after that. That statement implies that, contrary to the November 2016 interpretation, the maize in question should be considered as a genetically modified organism subject to the provisions of the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005. The services of the Public Health Office took immediate action in connection with the current field trial, namely the fence of the field concerned, measures to prevent the spread of the pollen, the establishment of a register of all the actions undertaken in the course of the trial and the training of the personnel responsible. On 10 August, there was also a check by the FPS Health Inspectorate, so there was a brief play on the ball to verify whether the measures were being applied. It turned out to be. On the other hand, the VIB was asked to provide all the documents to be delivered to the Public Health Office in the framework of the procedure described in the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005 as soon as possible. That's gonna be a big job. As is already the case for other field trials falling within the scope of GMO legislation, my administration will therefore make those documents available to the general public, via the website. The relevant field test shall be carried out for research and development purposes. The only direct results may be reports and/or scientific publications. It is up to the institutions concerned to decide how these results will then be evaluated. The documents sent to our FOD will be public. However, we have no idea what they are doing with their scientific publications. That's up to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u11	Madam Minister, thank you for the clear and comprehensive answer. When will the documents be on the website?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u12	As soon as my administration has it. My administration must, of course, first receive the documents before they can be posted on the website. There should not be too much time between public administration, but nothing has yet been received.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 26656 on high voltage cables and children's leukaemia is being converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u14	Madam President, Minister, I submitted my question on 20 August 2018 after I remembered that you would probably use the time available to investigate the statements made by our mayor of Blankenberge following the disappearance of our own MUG service. We know very well what the situation is. So it's not about regulation and that's more, but it's about statements about what consequences might have been for patients. The Public Health Office immediately responded to the statements by pointing out that the safety of the residents is guaranteed equally quickly and in a high quality manner. We have also been able to see that. We have seen that the MUG helicopter has arrived with us much more often. That's something the board needs to think about. How can we increase our contribution to this? We owe them a great deal. However, I would like to ask my question mainly about how long it takes to get to a patient and whether it is true that during that period lives have been or have been in danger. In concrete terms, my questions are as follows. Three patients would have died because urgent medical attention would have been too slow. Is that right? Do you have any findings on that? I don't want to know about the patients themselves. That's perfectly normal. It's none of my business. What is your analysis, however? Is it true or not? What is the average time to get urgent medical assistance on site after the merger between Blankenberge and Knokke-Heist campuses? Is it true that the MUG, based in Blankenberge, saved a dozen lives every year? I cannot imagine how it can be known that an intervention by the MUG really saved a life. In my opinion, this always has to do with the patient's situation and with what is going on. However, it has been stated that ten lives would have been saved. Are those records accurate? I'm curious to hear about your investigation of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Dumery, I am also curious about the research on which we have been based to make such foolish statements. You know that MUG services are used in life-threatening diseases. The question of whether a MUG actually saves a life is kicking in an open door. When the patient dies on arrival or when the patient dies, it has more to do with the patient's individual situation than with whether the MUG arrived on time. The survival chain is a chain that starts with the bystanders and the fact that people have to call immediately as well as the pre-arrival instructions given by the appointed 112. Then follow the actions of the aid workers/ambulanciers, the PIT and the MUG. Finally, there is care in the hospital. Within that chain there is no score between who saves a life at what time. It's a chain of collaboration around the patient. The new situation in Blankenberge................................................................................................................................................................................................ I find it appalling that people have known this for five years and now they are pretending that it is suddenly falling out of the sky. Due to the move from the emergency service in Blankenberge to the specialized emergency service of the AZ Zeno, it was known all along that the MUG could no longer apply patients in Blankenberge. In early August, the director of the AZ Zeno, Blankenberge campus gave an interview and a press conference on the future of the campus. I quote what he said then: "We have had three deaths with our PIT, but they would have been there in the past with our MUG." I regret the interpretation given by some. Those three unfortunate deaths were investigated on the basis of the reports. If someone is already dead when the help arrives, it cannot be said that this is the fault of those who want to help. As a result of the press releases and the crazy things that are circulating about this and scare people, I have asked the Health Inspectorate of the Public Health Office for an investigation. The conclusion of that study is clear and formal: in each of the three interventions mentioned above, urgent medical attention to patients was as rapid and high-quality as before. The inhabitants of Blankenberge and the many tourists who stay there therefore need not worry. If you call 911 in a medical emergency, you will quickly receive the appropriate assistance from an ambulance, a PIT or a MUG. The average driving time of the emergency services, which I had observed all summer, in the wider region of Blankenberge, Wenduine, De Haan and Zeebrugge is currently on average 5 minutes and 33 seconds. That was a very big job. I also had that investigated because the mayor threatened to call for the contingency plan, which he is not even competent for, as it can only be declared out of medical necessity. This did not turn out to be the case, although it has been a warm and long summer, which is still not over. However, I am sorry that patients are so terrified. The people of the region were also informed about this in the context of the discussion of hospital reform. The FPS Public Health and the Cabinet have helped to get a PIT to leave from the Blankenberge campus. Therefore, I do not feel very good about the way patients are treated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We followed this up this summer. I can confirm that the service was assured even though there was a lot of people. That five-minute and 33-second target time was needed. We saw that there was a very quick response. I can only tell you that you are absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u17	Madam President, Minister, at present, only certain medical devices such as glasses, lenses, hearing aids or condoms and pregnancy or ovulation tests are available in shops and, in particular, in supermarkets. Today, you have decided to allow the sale of all medical devices outside pharmacies, in order to comply with European regulations and the free movement of goods and goods. These products include sterile dressings, bandages and compresses, needles, wheelchairs, miners and knee pads, self-test devices (HIV), prostheses, capsules and other syrups, thermometers or surfometers, etc. Minister, when will the Royal Order allowing this change come into being? Have there been any consultations with the pharmaceutical sector in this context? What are the positions in relation to this amendment? You say that you want to comply with European legislation by taking this step. However, as you know, each Member State can take specific measures to ensure, for example, the safety of consumers and, in this case, patients. How do you intend to ensure quality, traceability, safety and accessibility for patients? Will there be distinctions between different types of medical devices? Will the players who will now be able to sell these types of products be subject to the same obligations as the pharmaceutical sector is currently? Today, the role of pharmacists tends to become more and more part of strengthened patient support. Some medical devices sometimes require this specific accompaniment, the request of a product may lead to a review of the complaint and a referral to medical care. Are you not afraid of certain adverse consequences for patients in the future because of this lack of accompaniment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u18	Madam President, Minister, my colleague has just recalled the framework. You obviously intend to allow supermarkets and other stores to sell medical products, all about sterile medical devices, prosthetics, self-tests, and also drug-alikes. However, as a reminder, the sale of these products today falls solely within the competence of the pharmacist. The least we can say is that it is challenging, in many ways. First of all, fundamentally, as Minister of Health, your responsibilities in this area are major. These products are not gadgets. These products used alone or inadequately can have a significant impact not only on the health of the patient, but also on inappropriate use - poor diagnosis or unaccompanied diagnosis, particularly in the use of self-tests. Remember that pharmacists are actors in health. They are primarily committed to putting the patient's medical interests first. The interest of supermarkets is purely economic. I recall a second major element. Pharmacists are subject to strict standards to ensure the quality, safety, traceability and accessibility of the products concerned. This is not at all the case, a priori, for supermarkets. Another important element is that the role of pharmacists is not limited to selling products, as is the role of supermarkets. Pharmacists focus on helping patients manage their health, providing advice and follow-up, which is obviously not possible for supermarkets because it is not their role. Their staff is not trained for this. I would also like to put a major element on the table. This is the way you worked. A working group has been set up within the AFMPS. He delivered his conclusions in June 2017 if I am not mistaken. The decision of this working group within the AFMPS was to retain an exception for category 1.5, i.e., drug-alike medical devices, i.e. those that resemble a drug, the rest being liberalized. The working group had considered that the timing of the dispensation of this category of medical devices was a pivotal moment for analysing the demand, for more adequate follow-up or for referring the patient to a medical consultation. Above all, he felt that these products should be accompanied by special monitoring, especially at the level of self-control. Pharmacists involved in health were involved in this working group. Obviously, it seems that you decided not to follow all the conclusions of this working group again, because this is not the first time. Indeed, you would go so far as to place the drug-alikes in a supermarket. The challenge behind all this is patient support that is commensurate with the quality we need to expect from health care. I take an example: an anti-diarrheal drug-alike type DM, the Tasectan. If you tell me otherwise, it would be good news. But it seems that you will allow the over-the-counter sale of this product in the supermarket. Will the supermarket cashier ensure that the patient's hydration is correct, asking a few questions? Will the cashier in the supermarket ensure that the person or, worse still, the baby or child does not present alarm signals: blood in the stool, signs of dehydration? Will the cashier of the supermarket ensure to the customer why he buys an anti-diarrhoeal medication? Does it return to travel with the infectious risks? Will the supermarket cashier ensure the adverse effects of the drug and possible interactions with other medications? Will the cashier of the supermarket ensure that it is not a chronic intake of treatment with side effects and underlying causes to be sought? Are other serious underlying pathologies not responsible for diarrhea requiring medical consultation? All these questions are asked very regularly by pharmacists to patients who address them. As health actors, pharmacists have a full and complete role to play. Of course, it is not up to the cashier of the supermarket to assume this role. She is not trained to do this. While the partners have worked in the AFMPS working group, for 12 months you have observed absolute silence. All of this to learn, today, that you could - I still use the conditional - sweep away all the arguments and opinions of this working group. Madam Minister, if you did, it would be totally irresponsible in terms of quality of care, issues, risks for patients. Minister, do you confirm your intention to allow supermarkets and other stores to sell medical devices? If so, how do you justify this measure? How do you justify your position, given the consultation carried out by the AFMPS with the actors, be it pharmacists, but also - if I am not mistaken - patient associations? How do you intend to ensure the quality, safety, traceability and accessibility of the products concerned if you make them available in large areas? What standards will be imposed on supermarkets? Will they be the same as those applicable to pharmacists? Do you not consider that there are many risks associated with this measure, including self-medication and polymedication outside of any contact with healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u19	You make a whole process here first and then you ask a number of questions. I'll try to give you an answer, but I think it's a done deal for you in advance. You're asking all these questions here. Will the cashier check the baby's bowel movement? Is the cashier gonna be okay and the cashier gonna be okay? You've used the word "caissiere" seven times. I would certainly not confuse the pharmacist and the cashier, but I also think that there are very few pharmacists who, when asked for Imodium, will examine and question the pages of the small questions. I think you're back here performing the great Catherine Fonckshow. Nevertheless, Mr. Frédéric, you have asked relevant questions. The publication of the Royal Decree may be envisaged in the coming months. In early 2017, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products established a working group to review the distribution of medical devices. In consultation with representatives of all stakeholders involved in this topic – APB, Comeos, etc. – he organised several meetings until last spring. The discussions were based on the following points. First, the distribution system is based on the provisions of Annex XIII to the Royal Decree of 18 March 1999, which defines the categories of distribution. This classification is applied only in Belgium and does not correspond to the European categorisation of risks. Medical devices bearing the CE marking are covered by the legislation on the free movement of goods and services. The retention of categories is a legal limitation. It should be borne in mind that Member States are allowed to apply restrictions where safety and public health reasons so require or where the retention of categories is problematic. The Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment in March 1991 on pharmaceutical sales monopolies for so-called "parapharmaceuticals". Among the conclusions, it is stated that there is no scientific evidence to justify the danger of opening up the distribution of medical devices and that there is also no justification for the need for a professional monopoly of distribution for certain health care. At the end of the discussions, the working group unanimously concluded that maintaining the distribution system in its current form was no longer legally possible and that its openness should be given priority. As regards the conditions for reimbursement and the legislation relating to certain health professions, nothing changes. The new provisions extend the range of distribution channels and increase the number of players, all of whom will have to comply with the same requirements contained in the regulations on the distribution of medical devices in Belgium, in accordance with the European Regulation. Furthermore, on the basis of the new Royal Decree of 15 November 2017 on the notification of a material contact point and the registration of distributors and exporters of medical devices, it is now mandatory for all professionals involved in the distribution of medical devices to register their activity with AFMPS, the competent authority to ensure the quality, safety and effectiveness of medical devices made available to patients on the Belgian market. In the meantime, the AFMPS has prepared to carry out these types of checks. Self-checking is also planned. As for official pharmacists, they will always be able to give the necessary advice to the patients who will address them and deliver, as before, all these medical devices. However, AFMPS regularly recalls that drugs and health products in general are not sweets and that it is important to learn about their proper use with health care professionals. We also asked pharmacists to provide us with a list of materials that they believe would be problematic for distribution via other channels. We haven't received it yet. We're waiting. Pharmacists are best placed to determine in which cases this new method of distribution presents a risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u20	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which leaves me a little puzzled. Thank you for considering my questions relevant. It's a pleasure after the weekend we've been through. More seriously, you say that the working group was unanimous. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union is indisputable. In addition to this, you say that a number of medical devices can be sold in large areas – which is shocking to me in my personal capacity – but that a list of pharmacists still needs to be received on products that may not be the subject of this type of dissemination. I have no advice to give you, but I draw your attention to the need for caution. I'm not a doctor like you. I'm just a citizen. I am concerned about the risk of selling products where there is no need to be. My supermarket, I buy my cauliflower and my tomatoes, not my medicine, in principle. I do not follow the example of Mrs Fonck and her cashier girlfriend, but I continue to consider that the best place to help a patient is the pharmacist. Although the demand may seem benign and trivial in a pharmacy, sometimes the relationship and the human and technical contact make it possible to identify more delicate situations. It won't be in a supermarket. I'm afraid we're going to a consumer society where the gesture of buying a drug within a radius will be the same as that of a Coca light box. Personally, I may be old-fashioned, but it shockes me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u21	Minister, you present the conclusions of the working group as unanimous. The working group's conclusion was that there was probably no choice but to change the situation in the light of European regulations. But the working group was equally unanimous in saying that there was absolutely no question of putting drug-like medical devices, which are anything but candy, in supermarkets. That's what I'm asking you about. Not only are you transforming the conclusions of the working group, which I find totally unacceptable, but you also told us that, basically, pharmacists were not making sure that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u22	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u23	Yes, you did when you talked about the tangs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u24	Your statement is false. You interpret my words as you please!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u25	Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u26	I have the floor, Madam Secretary. I specifically took the example of anti-diarrhoea because it's a drug alike. It's not a candy! If you put it on a large surface tomorrow, it will be sold next to the candy. That's the reality! Your vision of pharmacists is absolutely not mine. In my opinion, the pharmacist is an actor of confidence in health. It plays a health advisory role. Your vision is obviously quite different since you follow Comeos' vision. The working group did not adopt a unanimous position to transfer all medical devices to supermarkets. I don't agree with you. If you follow this path, it will therefore clearly be a political choice for the government to go in the direction of the major commercial brands, for whom health is a market segment in the same way as industrial food. Minister, I can only call on the government to make a completely different choice. The question of health, side effects, interactions, underlying pathologies really needs not to go in this direction. If you keep putting the pharmacists on the side...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u27	Mrs. Fonck, please finish. You have already used up the speaking time for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u28	Madam President, I'm finishing. Minister, if you continue to neglect the role of pharmacists, it will be a loss for patients and for the quality of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u29	Madam President, I have a right to reply to these accusations both to the government and to me personally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u30	Mrs De Block, if you would like to speak, that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u31	I ask you to speak and I will be brief and concise. Mrs Fonck, the choice of this government is to respect European legislation! For the rest, I made a pact with the pharmacists, in their interest. Home pharmacists are a success. These are attacks on the government and myself! You are actually doing something other than asking questions here in the interests of public health. You are making personal attacks and that undermines the whole policy that I have set up, along with the pharmacists. If you can't bear that, it's your business. I find your behaviour as a Member of Parliament substandard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u32	Madam Minister, does European legislation oblige you to put all medical devices, including drug alikes, in supermarkets? The answer is clearly no. As far as pharmacists are concerned, we have a profoundly different vision. We also have profoundly different methods. I'm listening to pharmacists, including those in the drugstores. I can tell you that what I have is that not only do you not listen to them and hear them, but you do not understand them. In your vision, the pharmacist is not an actor of trust and proximity for patients; the stake is first and foremost the quality of care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u33	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, Asks the government: to reserve the sale of "drugs alike" medical devices only to pharmacists and not to allow the sale of these products in large areas on the basis of the following arguments: - pharmacists are committed to putting the patient's medical interests first while supermarkets have a purely economic interest; - pharmacists are subject to strict standards to ensure the quality, safety, traceability and accessibility of the products concerned; - the role of pharmacists is not limited to the sale of products but mainly to support patients in managing their health, providing advice and follow-up, which is not possible in supermarkets; - these "drugs alike" can lead to significant side effects and drug interactions. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government; allow the sale of drug like medical devices only in pharmacies and not in supermarkets, on the basis of the following arguments: - the medical interests of the patient are paramount to pharmacists, while supermarkets follow purely economic logic; - pharmacists must comply with strict standards to ensure the quality, safety, traceability and accessibility of the products concerned, - the pharmacist is not limited to the sale of products, but primarily supervises the patient so that he gets more control over his health, gives advice and provides follow-up, which does not happen in the supermarkets; - drug like products can have serious side effects and interfere with other medicines taken by the patient." A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 26693 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Peel's 26697 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u34	Madam President, Minister, according to the World Health Organization, the number of measles cases in Europe in the first six months of the year exceeds the number recorded per year over the last decade. For example, in the first six months of 2018, more than 41,000 adults and children in the Europe area contracted measles and at least 37 people died. Seven countries in the region (Russia, France, Georgia, Greece, Italy, Serbia and Ukraine) reported more than 1,000 infections in children and adults this year. Ukraine was the hardest hit country, with more than 23,000 cases. Belgium is not spared. In 2017, an epidemic hit our country: 367 cases were recorded during the year, of which more than 70 were recorded in February alone. Between July 2017 and June 2018, there were 94 cases of measles. Given that the WHO has an incidence rate target of less than one case per million in the population for each country in the European area, Belgium is far from achieving this target with a rate of 32 cases per million in 2017. In view of this at least worrying situation, WHO urges all countries to immediately implement comprehensive and situation-specific measures to halt the spread of this disease. Minister, could you inform us about the assessment of measles cases in the different communities in our country over the past five years? According to WHO, preventing epidemic outbreaks requires at least 95 per cent immunization coverage, with two doses of measles vaccine each year, and efforts to reach children, adolescents and adults who have not received all vaccines as part of a previous routine vaccination. Could you tell us what vaccination coverage within each of the Communities of our country is based on the doses of vaccine administered? Anti-vaccins are increasingly being heard in the European Union. This is currently seen in Italy in particular. However, the importance of vaccination is no longer to be scientifically demonstrated. What is your position in this regard? What are you defending in this context with the European bodies and your European counterparts? In addition, Belgium now has only one compulsory vaccine. Are there any reflections and studies carried out in this context to review the recommendations of the Higher Health Council? Finally, do you not consider it useful to standardize the recommendations made by the various Communities in our country to ensure the public health of all our citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u35	Mr Frédéric, Belgium sends data on measles to the World Health Organization every year. For the period 2013 to 2017, the number of new cases per Region in Flanders is 9, 50, 6, 19 and 41 respectively; in Wallonia, 14, 7, 31, 19 and 293 cases; in Brussels, 16, 10, 4, 33 and 24 cases. In assessing the state of elimination in a country, WHO takes into account the impact calculated on the total number of non-imported measles cases per year. For this reason, the total number of cases per year is slightly different. The number of cases imported varies. In 2017, there were 9 imported cases, resulting in a total of 367 cases, as previously reported. "Imported case" means a case that has been infected during a stay in another country. Between January and July 2018, Belgium recorded 74 cases of measles (31 in Flanders, 11 in Brussels-Capital Region, 32 in Wallonia including the 9 imported cases) with a peak in May. There has been a resurgence of cases in Wallonia since August. No deaths from measles cases were reported during the above-mentioned years. The figures can be analysed more precisely by visiting the Sciensano website. But I guess you've already done it. Immunization coverage is estimated by a vaccine survey in each Community and Region. This survey takes place approximately every four years. According to the results of the last survey carried out, the vaccination coverage for the first dose of measles vaccine - this is referred to as the triple measles, rubella, mumps vaccine - is 95.6% in Wallonia; 94.1% in Brussels-Capital Region; 96.2% in Flanders. According to the latest survey on vaccination coverage for the second dose of measles vaccine (two documented doses), it is 75% in Wallonia as well as in the Brussels-Capital Region and 87.4% in Flanders. It is also important to note the vaccination coverage figures at the time of the second dose. These figures are higher, with 78% in Wallonia as well as in the Brussels-Capital Region and 93.4% in Flanders. The responsibility for vaccination is divided among different federated entities. These entities define strategic directions and ensure that vaccination is carried out, while monitoring the impact. On the other hand, in the context of Belgium's international obligations, in particular with regard to the commitment to WHO for the elimination of measles and rubella, Belgium must provide a single action plan and national figures, although broken down by Region. To this end, a Committee for the Elimination of Measles and Rubella has been established. Sciensano ensures scientific coordination for this committee, which brings together representatives of all our entities concerned. This committee meets at least once a year but may communicate on a regular basis, i.e. by e-mail. The role of the Committee is reflected in the Action Plan for the Elimination of Measles and Rubella in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u36	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u37	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Fonck's 26713 and 26715 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u38	Madam Minister, a while ago you announced in the press that you wanted to work on a food label, the French nutri score, which you want to introduce in Belgium. This Nutri-Score gets the support of VIGEZ. However, the food sector does not seem to support the label. Madam Minister, which food producers have already committed themselves to using the Nutri-Score? Colruyt and Delhaize would have indicated that they wanted to use the label on their home products. Have the major producers such as Coca-Cola, Nestlé and Unilever also indicated that they will use the food label? How much of the food products will the food label contain in the long term? Will you actively promote the use of the label? What actions do you want to take to encourage food producers to use the food label? What other labels were also investigated? Several options were discussed during the hearings. Was the successful British trafficlight system also studied? Why weren't these nutrition labels chosen? Fevia rejects the Nutri-Score for being too simplistic. Were there other labels that the food sector was more positive about? If so, why wasn't those labels chosen? In the Netherlands, the introduction of the label has failed, partly because food producers had to pay a price to use the label. This can constitute a real threshold for smaller producers in particular. Will producers have to pay for the new Belgian label? Will you apply for European recognition for the food label, so that it can be used as the only food label in Belgium and avoid a proliferation of labels? Will the label be legally anchored?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u39	Very soon the adoption of the Nutri-Score system will be notified within the European Commission. The legal basis that we will take note of is in accordance with the statements made by the European Commission, that is, in accordance with Rule 36 of the Rules of Procedure on information for consumers and Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure on food products and health. By officially supporting the Nutri-Score with the economic players, as has been done in France, I want to make a healthy choice easier and simpler. By officially supporting Nutri-Score among economic actors, I want to make it easier and easier for consumers to make a healthy choice, as in France. The healthiest choice is the easiest choice. At a glance and not with three magnifying glasses and a course, one can now find out about the nutritional value of a product. It can therefore be compared with other products in the same category. In other words, if one wants to buy yoghurt, one can see which of the available offer is the healthiest. France preceded us there a year earlier. An evaluation has also been carried out there and I have been informed about the work there. The French wanted to improve nutritional quality and to make it easier for consumers to find the healthy and unhealthy values of a product in their purchases, assuming that some people make financial choices, especially with low income. Their evaluation was very positive. We have, of course, also examined the British system of traffic lights. The Dutch system is another system, I think Albert Heijn was involved. We have had consultations with both distributors and the food industry. The food industry got on the train. Three large chains are in the process of applying the Nutri-Score for their home products. Recently, Danone has announced that he will implement the score. I don't want to advertise, but that's a big dairy producer, including milk, yoghurt, cheese. One after the other follows. On the other hand, distributors want to wait for a European system and want more information to be provided. They have not come up with concrete proposals and we have not been able to examine them. The proposal to include Nutri-Score on the labels, which is now on the table, is a follow-up to the agreement we concluded with the food industry and distributors, the Belgian Pledge for advertising and healthy food for children, and I have given my full support to this. We don't go ice cream in one night. Moreover, I have already replied to questions put to it by several Members concerning the absence of a Nutri-Score report or related reports for the time being that we are first carrying out a serious investigation. We have taken into account the proven impact of the different possible labels on the behaviour of consumers and producers. Since sensitization for balanced nutrition is a task of the Länder, it was also important for the Länder to support the choice of the Nutri-Score, which is there. I also understand that there is some resistance from the federation of the food industry to any label. However, this does not prevent individual companies from providing additional tools and information to consumers to make healthy food choices. From my contacts I hear that consumers are really asking and are also really willing to buy products with good Nutri-Scores. It is also a form of nudging, because consumers will buy the products they see to be healthy. The use of the Nutri-Score is still voluntary and completely free of charge. The algorithm is also public, so that anyone who wishes to do so can also calculate the score for most of the products. I have already noticed that consumers are checking whether the score is correct or not. Because the algorithm is an audience, it is really possible to calculate and verify. In France, the Nutri-Score has been introduced and I understand that a dynamic has emerged among the producers in order for products to evolve into a healthier Nutri-Score. As an example, we have already asked for sugar to be reduced, as in cheeses, yoghurts and drinks for children, the protein content of which is important, but also that of sugars and fibres. The producers themselves are increasingly evolving towards green drinks, which are drinks with a green label in terms of Nutri-Score. Mrs. Dedry has too much hope that we all opt for green drinks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u40	Thank you for the full answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 26717 question will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 26718 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Somers has withdrawn 26754. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mr Senesael's 26772 lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u42	Madam President, my question is very much in line with the previous issue. We are close to healthy food. Madam Minister, a very interesting decision was recently taken in the Netherlands under a national prevention agreement. Healthier non-alcoholic beverages have been made cheaper through an exemption from public taxes. In concrete terms, these would be source water and non-sugar drinks which would be exempt from a consumer tax. It wouldn't be very little. There is even 9 euro cents on a litre of mineral water. In our country, the soft drinks tax you introduced has now been introduced. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, what is your position on the Dutch approach, in particular on the system of reducing consumer taxes? Secondly, would you also consider the system in our country to increase the contrast with sugary beverages? Thirdly, would you consider it for other healthy foods, such as fresh food or fruit? Is that desirable and/or feasible in your eyes? Fourthly, do you have an evaluation of the soda tax? Fifth, are any figures of the impact on the health of the population known? If yes, can the results be communicated, including the yield per year of the soft drinks tax so far? Sixthly, how have the consumer and/or sales figures of soft drinks changed in our country since 2014? In your opinion, did this achieve the health impact you were aiming for?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u43	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, I just read that there is a gas leak and an evacuation somewhere. For your question, I have, of course, had to ask my fellow Minister for Finance for some information. After all, there is also a demand for a lot of tax data. In addition to excise duties and turnover taxes, there is also consumption tax in the Netherlands. The consumer tax is a specific tax on non-alcoholic beverages, fruit and vegetable juices, mineral waters and lemonade. She has nothing to do with VAT. Belgium does not have such a consumer tax. The sales tax is like our VAT. However, the Netherlands also has a consumer tax, which has nothing to do with VAT. In terms of VAT, the Netherlands is not allowed to introduce a zero rate of VAT on these products and, like us, must comply with the directives and the permitted margins, in accordance with the VAT directives. Like Belgium, the Netherlands applies the lowest rate. I brought the European Commission's tables with the state of play on 1 January 2018. You should also know that from 1 January 2019, the Netherlands will introduce a general tariff increase of its only reduced VAT rate, from 6% to 9%. The Dutch tariff increase will therefore also apply to non-alcoholic beverages and foodstuffs, among others. Against this background, the reduction in the consumer tax mentioned can also be perceived as a form of compensation. In order to avoid a spectacular rise in their prices, they will therefore change the consumer tax. Those two changes take effect on the same day. As far as Belgium is concerned, excise duties have already introduced a greater contrast between non-alcoholic beverages. Indeed, since 1 January, a distinction has been introduced to tackle soft drinks harder without affecting the flavoured waters. So now there are three categories of water instead of two. First, natural or artificial aerated waters and mineral waters, including not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, nor flavoured. Ice and snow are also included. Secondly, natural or artificial mineral waters and aerated waters, including flavoured, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter. Third, water and aerated waters, including flavoured or not, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter. For the new category of flavoured waters without added sugars or other sweeteners, the rate of excise duty has remained the same, while the rate of soft drinks has increased. I've got the numbers for you up to four points after the decimal point. The increase has an estimated revenue of 57 million euros, including VAT. The figures available to FPS Finance so far show that these receipts remain on track, as do the receipts from the imported sugar tax. In terms of volume, we see no major changes. However, we can see that the volume of flavoured drinks without added sugars is slightly increasing. This can be seen from the turnover of the producers concerned. People tend to drink less soft drinks and grab more water and those flavored drinks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u44	Madam Secretary, thank you for the figures. I'll study them carefully. If I think that's necessary, I'll ask you a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u45	Question No 26791 by Mr Blanchart has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u46	Madam Minister, I have been told from the field that there are problems with the registration of AED devices and in particular the app developed for that purpose. That is all I know, and that is why I wanted to inform you whether you are aware of this and whether there are any actual problems. If so, what steps will you take to resolve these problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u47	Ms Van Camp, the registration of AED devices was regulated in the Royal Decree of 21 April 2007 concerning safety and other conditions regarding the automatic external defibrillator, used as a CPR. This registration is still a record on paper. The registration data, in particular the list of the AEDs that were registered, of the FPS Public Health Office can be found on the website of the FPS Public Health Office. These data can be retrieved and used by app developers. My services are currently examining the possibilities of modernising the process of registering these AED devices and making them more dynamic, away from the paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u48	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u49	Madam Minister, I have heard that preventive oral care is only reimbursed to adults up to 67 years of age. Why is the annual audit consultation not refunded after 67 years? Since when does this situation exist? Are you planning to change the subject here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u50	Mrs Van Camp, in 2000, reimbursement of the annual oral examination for adults between 18 and 67 years of age was introduced. So it's true right now. When this rule was introduced, i.e. in 2000, reimbursement was limited to insured persons aged 18 to 23 years. So they started with that young group. Over the years, the National Committee on Dental Sickness Funds has always raised the age limit, bringing it to 57 years in 2009, 63 years in 2011, 65 years in 2014 and 67 years in 2016. I also believe that oral care should be a priority for every citizen, regardless of age. That is why the National Committee on Dental Medical Funds is asked to abolish the age limit for the reimbursement of oral examinations and certainly to increase them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u51	When can that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u52	It is up to the National Committee on Dental Health to decide. I'm just sitting there as an observer. It is a consultative body of health care providers and health insurance funds. There is little right of insertion from the point of view of policy. However, it is a priority for the committee and it seems logical to me that it should raise the age limit in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u53	Madam Minister, I hope you will continue to send the message that we would like to see the age limit abolished. Moreover, this seems to me to be a rather discriminatory situation. I'll keep following up on the case myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u54	Madam Minister, a few months ago I asked your cabinet for figures on the number of sleep studies and their costs. It is striking that in many countries, such as the Netherlands, the United States, Germany and Switzerland, such sleep studies are already being carried out in the home situation. Your reaction in the press to my proposal to introduce it here, I thought it was weird. You didn't find the feasibility guaranteed. I quote from the press: 'The measurement and observation cannot be sophisticated at home. So we are not going to save at the expense of people's quality and health." Firstly, if the measurement at home could not be as sophisticated as possible, how do you explain that it is happening in many countries, including Western European countries as well as neighbouring countries with good quality health care? Secondly, there are studies that support that sleep tests can also take place at home, with the same quality. Sometimes the quality is also higher, because the situation in the home environment better ensures the natural sleep pattern. Did you know about these studies? Thirdly, are there any studies that support your assertions that measurement and observation cannot be sophisticated at home? Why did you make those claims anyway? Fourthly, do you intend to update your judgement on home-sleep studies or do you insist that this is not feasible? Then what are you basing yourself on? Can you justify and explain that position?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u55	Mrs Van Camp, we are working on it and these studies are continuing. The study proposals for the 2019 programme are currently being discussed on the Board of Directors of the Knowledge Centre. That list contains a study proposal on the outpatient practice of sleep apnea in the home environment. Subject to the decision of the Board of Directors of the Knowledge Centre, we will therefore have a study in which a scientific answer is given to the questions of how best to detect, educate, deploy the equipment and follow-up and evaluation of the patient. So it is not that we do not want to do so, but there are still not enough guarantees in the field and in the scientific studies that this can be done with the same safety for the patient. That was also mentioned at the Knowledge Centre. That's right there on the table today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u56	Madam Minister, if we look at national studies, this may indeed be the case. At international level, however, there are only studies in the scientific literature which do support their safety and quality. No study has yet been published that would claim otherwise. I think I can conclude from that that the statements you have put forward in the press are actually not substantiated. I think it is a good thing that we are being examined to see if we can do it in this country. The figures I have received show that we can save on that. You said that this would be at the expense of people's quality and health. However, if studies show that even better quality is offered at a lower cost, then I do not see why we should not. I therefore hope that this work will be carried out and that a study can be started quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u57	Firstly, if the Centre of Knowledge is looking into this, then the published international studies will also be looked at. They always take it with them. That's their way of working, they have a certain methodology. What they do not, of course, take with them are studies that are being set up by the companies themselves. Those are the ones you're referring to. A company that carries out a study itself will not come out with the conclusion that it is slightly less dangerous or yet dangerous. Those are of course tricks of the foor, when they themselves come out with studies. We have imposed an obligation that studies which do not demonstrate safety will have to be published. The Knowledge Centre does not actually rely on commercial studies, but on real studies, publications, both domestic and international.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u58	I've never based my claims on studies that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u59	I have to focus on that in order to pursue a policy. I need to be sure of patient safety. We are also not convinced of this safety and will investigate it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u60	I've never based my statements on studies from firms. I always base myself on scientific sources and consult PubMed. When it comes to reliable scientific studies, they must indicate in their methodology whether they are sponsored by companies. I've always worked in the scientific branch myself, and I've made a doctorate about it. I think I know what a reliable study is and what isn't. I am therefore sticking to my point of view. Scientific studies, which people can consult and which separate themselves from some firms, show that the quality of sleep tests at home is just as good, and often even better. That is also why the Netherlands, Germany, the United States and Switzerland are not directly involved in countries where the quality of health care is low. I'm sticking to my point of view. I am pleased that these scientific studies are being brought together and that it is being considered whether it can be introduced here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u61	That is what is currently being decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the past, the KCE and the Court of Auditors made a number of comments on the famous Article 81 and negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry. In the budget notifications we see a link with the increased transparency of Article 81 contracts and compensatory levy. You will be charged with examining the extension of the confidentiality perimeter for Article 81 by the end of September, after consulting the sector. In addition, you need to reform the modalities of the current compensatory levy, in order to strengthen the sector's budgetary accountability and to reduce future budget overruns. What does the extension of confidentiality in relation to Article 81 mean? What reforms will you undertake to better address the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u63	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, during the summer conclave I was indeed charged with examining the extension of the confidentiality perimeter on the agreements on proprietary medicinal products. On the basis of this exercise, it was decided to extend the confidentiality perimeter to the government delegation seat on the General Council. It will therefore receive aggregated information on gross and net expenditure, aggregated at ATC 1 level, available at RIZIV. The RIZIV will therefore provide these data to these people. To this end, the legislation on the functioning of the General Council will be amended. Transparency may also be extended to the representatives of insurance undertakings who are members of the working group negotiating the confidential agreements by allowing them to consult with the structure or group they represent. There are working groups and both RIZIV and insurance institutions are represented. Firstly, there are the decisions of the CTG, not ordinary decisions, but decisions which require the application of Article 81. Sometimes that can raise questions. We have once made an analysis of this and we think that there is a part of it that does not belong in it. However, this is the responsibility of the CTG. But that's their responsibility. If they say that they are not making an ordinary decision, then it must become an Article 81 agreement. The insurance institutions are also part of the working group that negotiates the confidential agreements. So they can hold the pen a second time. The transparency of data will now be extended to them. In short, three times they are at the source of the data, and at the cause of the decision taken. I therefore hope that they will shoulder their responsibilities. This possibility also exists in the internal rules of the CTG and can be extended to the working group negotiating the contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u64	Indeed, Madam Secretary, you put your finger on the wound. The problem is that, in our view, there are too many negotiations leading to Article 81 agreements. From this point of view, I find it difficult to judge who has the ultimate responsibility for this, but we have already seen a number of discussions move to the decision of Article 81, without the CTG having given a ruling. In short, I think we can agree that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u65	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u66	Madam Secretary, you really shouldn't get mad. I am simply saying that we have seen in recent years that Article 81, which has been drafted with the best intentions, has passed its purpose, and that it is being used too often. According to our intelligence, it was often used very quickly, without the CTG making a ruling on it. If that is not the case, our intelligence is not correct and I am certainly prepared to look at the evidence that it is indeed incorrect. But I understand from your answer that you will not necessarily solve the problem immediately, but that you will take a number of steps in the right direction. We will continue to monitor this, as in the past, and soon we will come back to it to see how things are going. We do agree that it is being used too much and that it is not transparent enough. This is not an attack but merely the observation that a well-intentioned system is failing its purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u67	I'm not angry, Mrs. Jiroflée. I understand it's not an attack, but you're saying something that's not true. You may recall all of Mrs Van Camp's questions on Spinraza's reimbursement. As long as the CTG has not taken a decision, positive or negative, I cannot intervene and in any case call for the application of Article 81. Otherwise, I would have done it for Spinraza. However, I had to wait. I had to wait until the procedure was completed twice, until there was a negative opinion. Only then could Article 81 be applied. That causes some medication to go too slowly to the patients. We agree that the CTG too easily decides that Article 81 should be applied. That is why I have reformed the decision-making procedure of the CTG. However, in some cases this is not necessary and the CTG itself can make a decision, as you know. Some insurance institutions, not all of them, state in the press that I allow more Article 81 contracts, while they themselves refer to me. I want to take responsibility, but so must all the other actors. The insurance institutions are in the CTG, where they hold a monopoly position and can veto the application of Article 81 anyway. By the way, Professor Annemans has also looked at how many cases that happened. We want the same thing. It should remain necessary, as long as there is no alternative, to take medication along the normal route to the patient, and as long as no decision has been made. We also agree on this. However, the CTG must do its job. For everything that needs to be done, she has to take responsibility. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u68	Mrs Jiroflée, you have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u69	Madam Minister, we are indeed in agreement on the final objective. In any case, we will follow up the dossier closely. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add that my information does not come solely from insurance companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée 26848 is hereby repealed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u71	Madam Minister, I refer to my oral question on the district health centres in the committee of 5 June 2018 and to my written question, tabled on 6 July. I asked that last question because you had not answered the question at the committee meeting on 5 June. You also indicated that that was a substance for a written question and that you were studying the final report. Therefore, you said it was too early to give an overall assessment. I have asked my question in writing in order to obtain some factual information, but I have still not received an answer. For that reason, I take the liberty of asking again. In the meantime, have new centres been recognised? If so, how many? Where are they located? How many applications have been submitted? For what reasons were applications not accepted? I realize that this calls for a written question, but I have not yet received an answer and we are four or five months later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u72	Then you indeed have the right to put your question orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u73	Mrs Jiroflée, I have just received the answer. Since 1 January 2018, four new medical homes have been recognised. None of the dossiers submitted were rejected. On 29 June I discussed the final report of the working group with the chairman. He is now in contact with those responsible for the RIZIV in order to organise the work more closely. In other words, the discussions between the RIZIV leaders and the president, who drew up the report, continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u74	Thank you for the intel. I understand you haven't drawn any political conclusions from that yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u75	I requested the report, but the follow-up will be discussed with the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u76	I'll keep following up the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Catherine Fonck's 26854 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u78	Madam President, Madam Minister, in July of this year, I was asking you about the announced overrun of 300 million in the drug budget. These include the success of innovative medicines and immunotherapy in cancer treatments. At the July Conclave, you announced that you had found a solution: the pharmaceutical industry would repay about one third, or EUR 100 million, and the government would release the remaining EUR 200 million. This was an announcement effect as there is no longer any trace of these 200 million in the estimates for the 2019 health care budget. Minister, in my opinion, there is no doubt that these 200 million are missing. How can you prove the opposite? On the basis of what precise figures? How do you explain that, suddenly, the overrun is reduced only to what the pharmaceutical industry has to repay? How will you compensate? Via less reimbursement of cancer treatments? Via new measurements on the backs of patients? Or are you just going to postulate the problem and let the next government fix it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u79	Mr Frédéric, the increase in expenditure on oncological medicines is due to the many innovative medicines for the treatment of cancer that have been made available to Belgian patients with cancer in recent years. The most important expenditures are in immunotherapy but also in CAR-T. Compared to conventional chemotherapy, this innovative class of drugs heals more patients or significantly prolongs their lifespan. In addition, these drugs increase the quality of life of all patients. We have heard this, in particular, during the sittings held in Parliament some time ago and which I attended. You are aware that I have taken an initiative to ensure that these medicines can be reimbursed more quickly as soon as a new indication is registered by the European Medicines Agency. This faster reimbursement follows the resolution on immunotherapy for colleagues Somers and Vercammen, which was adopted with broad support in Parliament in May 2017. In fiscal year 2019, the government adjusted the drug specialty budget to reflect the recent wave of innovations and the upcoming wave. As a result of the technical corrections made for this purpose, the alignment in question will not be supported by the patient, nor will the under-utilization of other sectors be the financial responsibility of the insurers. I can add that yesterday the General Council approved the Insurance Committee's proposal for the 2019 budget, which will amount to €26.5 billion. I would point out that no action will affect the patient and the various actors. On the contrary: we invest even more in the treatment of patients and in agreements concluded, for example, with physiotherapists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answer. I read that the General Council of INAMI had approved the budget yesterday, which, if I have seen correctly, provides for a EUR 500 million slippage from the target. I don't know how this will be compensated, but we'll keep an eye on it. Then I heard the commitment you made not to touch the quality of care given to patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament 26944 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 26963 by Mrs Barbara Pas expires. Debates of the European Parliament 2659 by Mrs Els Van Hoof and No. 27158 by Mrs Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u82	Minister, dysautonomy is an orphan disease that leads to the dysfunction of the autonomous nervous system regulating automatic functions such as breathing or digestion. Patients with this disease are forced to consume enteral nutrition, which is a high cost, i.e. EUR 28.30 per day. This corresponds to two pockets of Nutrison Concentrated (49 euros per coin), a Flocare Pack infinity ENFit kit at 3,99 euros and a rent for the pump of 40 euros per month. The intervention of compulsory insurance amounts to EUR 5.66 per day, i.e. a final daily cost of EUR 12.64. In the end, this represents a monthly cost of 379.20 euros, knowing that it would be better to consume three pockets a day. In order to receive full reimbursement, it is necessary to be hospitalized seven days a week, which obviously entails other costs which are extremely important for social security, especially since hospitalization is not always necessary in this case. The other problem concerns the reimbursement of the costs of the German centre specialising in the management of this disease, the only institution which treats this disease. The first appointment costs 781.74 euros, of which INAMI reimburses 32.89 euros. INAMI has a referral of centres specializing in this disease on Orphanet and this German center is the first on the list. Minister, why is the reimbursement of enteral nutrition only provided for in full hospitalization? How do you explain that the reimbursement of the costs of the German centre, specialized in the management of this disease, is not complete or at least more important?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u83	Mr. Frédéric, there is indeed a difference in the reimbursement of enteral probe feeding for hospitalized and non-hospitalized patients, whereas the medical and social needs are in fact the same. Enteral feeding by probe at the hospital is included in the cost of the hospital day, which is largely paid by INAMI via mutualities. The intervention for in-home feeding is now granted in the form of packages to the patient. Before 1 January 1997, the intervention had to go through the Special Solidarity Fund, which dealt with individual applications and granted compensation corresponding to the additional cost compared to normal feeding. After 1 January 1997, regular regulations entered into force. It allows the patient to be reimbursed on the basis of a number of criteria. At the time, a package had been chosen because such a form of intervention already existed and the fastest way forward was to continue this package. What happened? Intervention amounts have not been increased since 2007 due to budgetary constraints while actual costs to patients have increased. What has been done for children and young people under the age of 19? Costs not covered by the package are taken into account as part of the maximum amount to be charged. However, this has been resolved, but for people over the age of 19, it is true that there is an additional cost. In recent years, and increasingly regularly, we have been confronted with problems of access to in-house food for people at home, not only because of insufficient reimbursement, but also because of heavy pre-financing, a heavy administrative burden, discrimination in relation to the maximum amount to be charged between those under 19 years of age and those above that age, administration by a professional caregiver, and problems with home care providers. INAMI and the Medical Nutrition Working Group established within the Pharmacists-Insurers Agreement, are examining these problems, which have been mentioned for years. To the extent possible, measures have already been taken to improve access to enteral probe power in the current system. For example, an indexation of flat rates has recently taken place, and the indices eligible for intervention have been introduced. However, I clearly note that a system change will be necessary for the future. Therefore, at the request of INAMI and KCE, an in-depth study is carried out on possible scenarios for optimizing access to enteral power via home probes. The results of this study are expected in December of this year. I come to your second question. Each Member State of the European Union may autonomously regulate the organisation and provision of the health and medical care service, including, for example, the determination of the benefits in kind reimbursed, the conditions and the amount of the reimbursement. However, I do not currently have enough data to respond correctly. But the incomplete repayment can be explained by the fact that the German invoice is not sufficiently clear so that the Belgian mutuality can calculate a correct refund. In addition, the German invoice mentions services whose repayment conditions applicable in Belgium are not fulfilled. I therefore invite you to provide me with further details on this point. Indeed, the data provided to us do not allow us to point the finger at the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u84	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I note - and thank you - that you are aware of the difficulty faced by patients who should benefit from this treatment. I look forward to receiving the information on this study, which you think should be closed in December to see what course could be chosen and implemented. Indeed, if a comparison is made with a hospitalisation seven days a week, it is somewhat paradoxical that such a high cost is recorded for a patient staying at home. It should not be forgotten that this has a famous impact on our social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u85	Debates of the European Parliament No 26944 by Mrs Van Peel and No 26944 by Mrs Van Peel and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) for the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) for the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) for the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) for the European Unitarian Left (Christian-Democratic Group) for the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) for the European Unitarian Left (Christian-Democratic Group) for the European People's Party Of the half of the questioners, we have not received a message and the other half is asking for a postponement, which postpones the joint questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u86	Madam Minister, the Federation of Belgian Dentists indicates a tendency in which more and more small independent practices are bought up by large investment groups, which are primarily engaged in profit maximization and not directly with the best therapies for the patient. In that case the dentists work in a kind of employment under a CEO or practical manager and no longer as in a free and independent profession or as head of their own dental practice. This model is already well known, for example in Spain with iDental, where a large number of injured patients are asking for a solution because 24 Spanish branches of iDental have already been closed as a result of the commercialisation. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. What is your analysis and vision of the problem? Are there any figures on such analog evolution in Belgium? Do you defend a model in which dentists can continue to operate as free, independent professions or do you not see any bones in the advent of such megastructures? Are you planning measures to reduce or encourage the trend? What measures do you intend to take? Can your quality law, which has already been approved by the government, bring relief here and in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u87	Mrs Dedry, we agree that only the dentist and not any manager is competent to make decisions on therapeutic treatments. You refer to the preliminary draft law on quality care practice, which has been validated by the government at first reading and is now with the Council of State. The text includes a practical register, which will be kept by the FOD and the RIZIV. This will give us insight into the different forms of practice and exploitation in our country. I do not intend to regulate the legal person under which the practice is exercised. The aim of a law on quality care practice is precisely to impose the same quality conditions on any kind of practice, within the hospital, with an individual dentist or in an extramural practice. The requirements to be met by the health care professional in order to provide quality care include diagnostic and therapeutic freedom, respecting medical practice, based on scientific evidence and the competence of the healthcare profession and the obligation to have a visa. To prove his competence, the health practitioner also keeps the necessary data, the so-called portfolio obligation. In addition, the health care professional must characterise the patient in order to identify the risks inherent in certain studies and treatments. He or she must ensure the continuity of the current care provision at the end of the practice, which includes, inter alia, the transmission of data, a "dental state of affairs" to another health practitioner, precisely for the sake of continuity. A health practitioner who provides risky benefits in kind should have specific procedures in the case of emergency aid and or the transfer of patients. There must also be a permanence insurance. A number of healthcare professionals should be required to participate in the permanence, which applies not only to general practitioners but also to dentists. There are also conditions under which practical information may be disseminated. We have indeed had to make adjustments in this area following a European judgment following a complaint from a dentist to the European Commission on the wrong dissemination of practical information. It also concerns the structure and organisation of individual practices and partnerships between healthcare professionals. In order to establish those conditions, a legal basis is created, a minimum content of the patient file and the retention period are determined and there is a mandatory notification of the practice to a register of practices. In our country, freedom of enterprise applies. By definition, we do not need to see scaling-up as something negative. She's got favorable elements in her. The support for investment is increasing and this will enable new technologies and innovations to break down faster. In short, we have incorporated some very good provisions into our quality law. We have also implemented the consequences of the case law of the European Court of Justice. If I may put it that way, the question is not to set up large structures, but given the permanence, technicality and investment, there are more dentists working with two or three in practice. I'm just saying that things are developing on the ground. For example, where there are three dentists working together in one practice, each patient may still be able to go to his own dentist, but cooperation is more related to permanence and, above all, to investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-16-54-commissie-ic977x.u88	Madam Secretary, don't get me wrong, I am absolutely not against scaling up. Indeed, I am familiar with the examples you are referring to from the practical point of view. In your answer you say a lot about the quality law, which we will soon be discussing here, but you do not answer my questions about dentists in a commercial circuit with a manager at the head who has not eaten cheese from dentistry. I could draw a parallel with complaints from commercial housing centres, where the CEO is also a manager and care is not the first priority. My concern is that dentists themselves state that, when they come into the service of a CEO/manager, they no longer have the framework for quality work. So I am referring to the organisational structure, which is not the same as the right of freedom of enterprise.
