ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 March 2018, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session for item 10: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée) on the implementation of a joint strategy to ban fertilizers, No. 2856/01. The Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal proposes to reject this proposal. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Emir Kir and Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Eric Thiébaut) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, 1885/1 to 3. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this proposal be rejected. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 March 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary meeting before item 10: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée) to implement a concerted strategy to abolish glyphosate, No 2856/1. The Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society proposes to reject this proposal. - the bill (MM. Emir Kir and Willy Demeyer, Mrs. Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr. Eric Thiébaut) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, with regard to seriously ill foreigners, Nos. 1885/1 to 3. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this proposal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u3	Mr.President, Prime Minister, since December 2017 – it's been four months now – your government has been unable to conclude the signing of the Energy Pact and thus the total release of nuclear power in 2025. Prime Minister, you said in December, "I won't let anyone torpedo the Energy Pact." You have clearly committed your responsibility and credibility as Prime Minister in this issue of the Energy Pact and the exit from nuclear power, which you have continued to announce. Today, in addition to the release of nuclear power, a new fracture or, without punctuality, a new crack was born in your majority, around your energy minister who creates the division between those who profit from his weakness and those who deplore it. On the one hand, I quote from my colleague Len Dierick: "I would have preferred to have this discussion in 2015". It's 2018, Prime Minister. "Now that the case is in the hands of the Prime Minister, I am confident that it will end well," she says. There are a lot of studies on the table. Indeed, the Marghem & Cie research office keeps producing them and they all go in the same direction. Ms Dierick goes on to say: "Yes, an exit from nuclear power is possible if we are now taking steps to build gas-fired power plants. We can discuss studies for hours, but there are so many uncertainties that we just have to make a decision. It's very clear, waiting is no longer an option, under no circumstances." I'm not saying it, Prime Minister, it's a member of your majority! On the other hand, the N-VA, by the voice of Mr. Bert Wollants, tells us that it is not realistic to plan for a complete exit from nuclear power. He questioned the method of work of the Minister of Energy and stated that the options put on the table were not satisfactory. Prime Minister, is the file now entirely in your hands? In the context I have described, what is still the role of the Minister of Energy, except to put oil on fire? Does the government, which you represent, still have confidence in its Minister of Energy? Do you confirm that the necessary steps for the release of nuclear power in 2025 will be taken in time to make it a reality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u4	Prime Minister, the consequences of your energy policy are becoming more painful every day. The Energy Pact that we actually had to conclude in 2015 is still not there, which means that more and more people and industries who want to invest in the alternatives are losing out. What are we reading today? One in five families live in energy poverty. This means that every morning one has to wonder whether one will spend one's money on heating his house or feeding his children. That is the reality for one in five families in Belgium. The debate on the Energy Pact is blocked. Some say it's stuck because they're afraid of an increase in electricity prices. That is quite cynical of a government that itself has caused electricity prices to rise. That is the reality. Many families have seen 350 euros more on their invoice for three years as a result of the increase in VAT you have made. I repeat it again, colleagues. One in five families live in energy poverty. I don't think that's funny, unlike you. Prime Minister, all investors, including those who benefit from the extension of nuclear power, but certainly those who invest in alternative energy, want security today. First of all, Mr Prime Minister, when is the Energy Pact? When can you give that assurance? Secondly, electricity is clearly not a luxury product. This means a VAT of 6%. When are you prepared to reduce VAT to 6% again? I'm very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Energy Ministers adopted a draft Energy Pact in December 2017. They then took the decision to ask for further studies, which we have now received and which we have delivered to Parliament for the sake of transparency. The intention was to hold a broad parliamentary debate in committee yesterday with the people who worked out the studies so that a democratic and transparent debate could take place on this very strategic challenge for the future. Nor should I remind those who, from time to time, on Thursday afternoon, lose the sense of nuance and moderation that this debate on energy has been opened since 2003 without success. This government, in recent months, has made a great deal of progress, fine-tuning the work, clarifying certain topics. I am surprised that none of the opposition speakers spoke of security of supply, the impact of energy pact decisions on tariffs, infrastructure security, or the Paris agreements. These are four fundamental criteria. So these are four important criteria. As I have said a few times, I always try to be rational, it is not possible to respond spontaneously and in all coherence to the four criteria at the same time. We must therefore find a balance in the short, medium and long term. That is the exercise; that is the task for which the government will work. Over the past three years, we have demonstrated our political capacity to carry out important reforms. A few months after the government was set up, a €8 billion shift tax was implemented and substantial decisions to modernise the labour market were taken. In terms of security, we have strengthened the capacity of our services. As with other topics, in 2018 we will demonstrate our ability to implement an energy pact. I said it and I say it again. I come to the last important point, in particular the fight against poverty. Mrs. Temmerman, I don't need lessons in that area. 180 000 jobs were created, and that is the best way to combat poverty and achieve results. The increase in the wealth envelope is a reality, and it will allow more resources to be made available to those who are in a difficult situation. I'm concrete. As regards pensions, the lowest pensions of employees increased by €90 per month and by €150 per month for the self-employed. [[Rumors]] Last point, according to the latest study by the Plan Office, household disposable income increased in 2016 by 1.3% and increased by 2.2% in 2018. No lessons! We have the ambition of being up to date and we will mobilize for these laws to be passed. [[Applause on the benches of the majority]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to each other in a sensible way!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u7	Prime Minister, I am astonished that, in the face of simple questions, you are launching a catalogue of all the good actions you consider to have taken. I just quoted your words four months ago to question you, given your statements and the credibility of your government. You got mad at this stand. But Prime Minister, when the answer arguments are strong, raising the voice is not necessary... Be rather present and credible with your arguments! When we attend energy meetings in the Economy Committee with Minister Marghem, we do not receive answers to our questions about sustainability, sustainability, price. Today, neither do you announce an answer to these matters. Your credibility and that of your government are being challenged by parliamentarians in three of the four majority groups. This requires serious development and responses to this issue, which was announced in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have probably expressed myself very badly. After all, I asked you two questions about energy, and you actually gave me a state of the Union in your answer. I wonder if we can give your answer to the one person in five who will not be able to pay his or her energy bill tomorrow? Prime Minister, he or she cannot pay the bill because of the energy policy you are pursuing. Prime Minister, the Energy Pact is very important. You list all kinds of elements. As the other speaker points out, we repeat them every time. However, we never get answers. However, I learned something today. When one no longer knows how to answer and knows nothing to tell, one simply lists a book, a kind of Bible, after which one thinks that it reassures the people in the living room. Prime Minister, people are much smarter than that. You really underestimate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week a new analysis of the Price Observatory showed that the Belgian consumer paid a lot more for his products in the Belgian supermarkets in 2017 than in our neighbouring countries. The difference is huge. With Germany it saves 13 %, with the Netherlands it saves 12 % and with France it saves 9 %. A previous analysis, carried out three years ago, showed a reasonable price difference for the products in the supermarkets. Today it appears that these prices have only increased and that price differences with neighbouring countries have only increased. At a time like this, a number of bells have to start ringing, I think. In recent years, our country has made a significant effort to reduce labour costs. Mr President, it is noisy in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u10	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u11	In the past, our labour costs have been cited as an important factor in reducing competitiveness compared to our neighbouring countries. As I said, in recent years, our country has rightly been committed to reducing our labour costs. However, we must not lose sight of consumer prices and look at the causes of these price differences. We cannot be expected to pay more for consumer goods year after year. After all, every Belgian will feel this in his portfolio. What could be the cause of such a huge price difference? This will enable us to assess whether, in your capacity as Minister of Economy and Consumer Affairs, the government and you might be able to intervene on prices in the supermarkets. I've read that a cause could be the more difficult purchase terms... It's pretty noisy around here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u12	Colleagues, the noise level from the room is impressive. I would therefore ask you to show a minimum of courtesy and courtesy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u13	I have read that more difficult purchasing conditions, more difficult access to foreign markets for the purchase of products and higher taxes and VAT rates from us than in neighbouring countries could be the cause of the price difference. What about wage costs? Is there sufficient competition in the retail sector? After all, it is sometimes noted that the sector would not take everything out of the box to get prices down. Minister, we cannot be expected to pay more in the supermarkets in Belgium than in our neighbouring countries. What do you think are the causes of this? Can you take initiatives to intervene in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u14	Mr President, Mr Smaers, like you, many have been surprised by the 2017 annual report of the Prize Observatory, which has conducted research into identical products in France, Germany and the Netherlands. It was found that there was a difference of 13% in relation to Germany and the Netherlands and 9% in relation to France. The report itself lists a number of causes. One of them is important, you mentioned it yourself: it is indicated that the higher purchase prices from suppliers may be at the basis of that difference, given the large share of the purchase costs in the cost structure of the large distribution chains. That is not the only reason, but because Belgium is a small country, that is one of the elements. I have taken three actions on the basis of this report. Firstly, there is the problem of territorial supply restrictions and the small size of our country. At Benelux level, we have conducted an investigation into territorial supply restrictions. Because Belgium is small, suppliers increase prices slightly, which of course cannot be done. This week, I transferred that Benelux survey to the European Commission, with the explicit request to take the necessary measures and to discuss this matter further with us, in order to address the territorial supply restrictions, which, of course, pose a cross-border problem, at European level. Secondly, in 2012 we received a study from the Belgian Competition Authority on the market functioning and regulation of the distribution sector. This is also one of the elements cited in the study. That is why I asked the Competition Authority to update that 2012 investigation into the market functioning of the sector and to make concrete recommendations before 1 July this year. Finally, I also invited the main department stores, as well as the Price Observatory, to explain the report and to know their reactions. With the tax shift we have reduced the cost of wages, including for the lowest incomes, which are also active in the grocery stores. We have taken a number of measures. We want to hear from them how they see it. These actions I have taken will enable us to tackle the problem further. We must ensure that the great differences that are now apparent from this study are objectively justified. We are talking about VAT and excise duties. I want to know more about that. What we can also do in policy terms, in addition to the tax shift and a number of other measures, I will also submit to the government to ensure that consumers can shop as cheaply in Belgium as in the countries under investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and, above all, for the initiatives you want and will take in this area. As a fan of the Belgian trader, I would find it unacceptable to have to go to the Netherlands to do my shopping. The Dutch border is not far away from me, but I continue to support the Belgian merchants in principle. I therefore hope that prices in our supermarkets can become market-oriented and that we can do even more of our purchases from those Belgian traders and supermarkets. The government itself must consider what impact it can have and what it can change, because it would be unacceptable if it were to contribute to the excessive prices. Thank you again for your initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u16	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, in the press, several articles have reported a relatively impressive fall in the price of the bpost share, with figures showing a fall of more than 20%. This stock market fall is the strongest bpost has ever known. This may be surprising, because bpost is a success story, when one considers the state in which La Poste was before its reform. There's a world of difference! Therefore, several elements seem to have played out: firstly, its takeover by the firm Radial (which itself was the result of the merger of eBay Enterprise and Innotrac) which proves to be less interesting than expected, initially in any case; secondly, it seems that the operator has announced, in the interests of clarity, that his gross annual result would be less important in the future than that of recent years. It seems to me that the announcement is honest. As a result, the dividend offered to shareholders was less than expected, which probably raised their concerns. Of course, even though bpost has already made a major restructuring effort – as his former boss said: "We do less and less love letters" – we must therefore compensate in another way, what was done with the parcels, but it is also necessary that we develop in an area that is very dear to you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, i.e. e-commerce. Could you then tell me how bpost intends to move from the old to the new world of e-commerce? According to his boss, this moult will not be without harm, especially in the context of the takeover of Radial. Secondly, how in this context does bpost analyse the decrease in the volume of postal mail and how does it intend to remedy it? Would there be other occasions like Radial's in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u17	Mr.President, Mr.Flahaux, the bpost stock market price actually fell this week, not because the 2017 results were disappointing – on the contrary, they are pretty good – but because the expectations compared to 2018 were, on the market, higher than the data that bpost provided this year. The main factor is the drop in the volume of conventional mail. This is the consequence of the digital revolution that took place not only in Belgium but all over the world. So far, the decline in conventional mail in Belgium was 4 or 5 % per year. In the last quarter of 2017, there was an acceleration in the decline in the volume of conventional mail. I don't have any specific data about love letters. I can possibly ask a colleague to do a study on this. Last year, however, the decline was more pronounced and is expected to reach 7% for the entire year 2018. The bpost company has made the strategic choice to reorient itself to the parcel and e-commerce market, which grew by 28% last year. That's a pretty good thing. In this area, it is important to have know-how. Radial's recovery last year brings them that. Moreover, we can see that Radial's turnover growth is quite good, apart from a few points of attention. In any case, I remain confident in bpost, in terms of its strategic choices and its ability to carry out its transformation strategies in a changing market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u18	Minister, I am satisfied with your answer. I know that you are particularly motivated by the development of e-commerce, so that Belgium does not fall short of its neighbours from this point of view. It is also clear that shareholders sometimes tend to want to reap the fruits of their investments very quickly, while sometimes it is better to let them grow a little before they actually earn. But, like you, I think bpost is on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u19	Minister, more than 10,000 women are affected by breast cancer each year. 25% of these cancers occur before 50 years. All those who are in this Parliament have known or know someone who has been affected by this disease. And you, Madam Minister, what are you doing? You decide to restrict the reimbursement of individual screening! A nonsense in terms of public health! Since the beginning of this week and since the beginning of the controversy, you say you are misunderstood. I would say that it is you who do not understand, or that you do not want to understand the different realities experienced in the north and south of the country. For months, we have been denouncing him: you are first and foremost the Flemish Minister of Health. What we feel for you, Madam Minister, is not to be at the bedside of Flemish patients. That's not true! But not to be on the side of women in Wallonia and Brussels. While more than 50 per cent of women in Flanders respond to systematic screenings organised by the Communities, they are only slightly more than 10 per cent on the French-speaking side. And don't call awareness campaigns into question. These women seem to simply go through the door of their general practitioner or gynaecologist to get prescribed mammography. Minister, we must be able to take this reality into account! No, I don't! You simply decided to limit the reimbursement of this individual breast cancer screening. Catimini reform, without consultation and communication. In this matter, the debate is raging: within the scientific community but also within your government. For our part, we just want to be at the side of these women who want to access this screening because they are aware of its importance. Minister, under pressure from your own majority partners, you have decided to suspend the measure. Is it a suspension or removal? When do you intend to reconsider your decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u20	Madam Minister, in a press release, you deplored the panic around your royal order to limit the reimbursement of individual screening. You say women have been misinformed, but it was you who caused this wind of panic because you misinformed! Nobody saw anything coming. You wouldn't even have informed the members of your government. Your royal decree was published on February 26 in the most complete discretion. Its title did not even allow immediate identification of what was involved. The reform was only publicized this weekend. In the face of the media storm and this mailing that was really a great success, would an electoral wind have risen? The MR asked you to step back. I'd say it's so much better. It must be said that your order, as my previous colleague said, essentially affects French-speaking women, since they are proportionally more likely to choose individual screening. In age groups at risk, 42.2% of Brusselsers choose this option for 47.2% of Walloons and 16.8% of Dutch speakers. Nearly 50 per cent prefer testing organized by federated entities. I'm running out of time to get to the bottom. It was just the shape I wanted to highlight here. Then I will stick to a few questions, Madam Minister. On what scientific basis have you prepared this reform and with what purpose? Which experts, which organizations have you consulted? Who did you actually inform? Is it true that this reform saves eight million euros? How long do you plan to suspend this order? Meanwhile, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u21	Mr President, I would really like to address the Minister of Public Health today. If it is a complex subject, it is breast cancer, as evidenced by the prevention policies that need to be developed. We know that endocrine disruptors and sources of pollution promote the development of breast cancer. Next, screening techniques are varied: manual screening, mammography, ultrasound, etc. Questions arise. Minister, many of your predecessors have thus wondered what the best form of screening is based on the characteristics of women, from what age, how often, etc. All these issues are debated and of concern to both patients, the health sector and the political world, all concerned with finding the most appropriate methods. On the other hand, I cannot understand that information dating back to last weekend told us that an order would enter into force on 1 April and aimed to reduce certain refunds, as well as to reorganize the scheme. I'm not even going to make a value judgment on the measures set out in your order. Only, you do not provide any explanation for this. The anguish of women, of course, is beginning to become known, as they really live in their flesh. Medical representatives speak differently on the subject, depending on their situation. It is claimed that the purpose of this measure is to achieve budgetary savings, not to better detect breast cancer through more appropriate methods. Then you withdraw your arrest under political pressure from a partner of your majority. And still nothing! No information is given. That's not right! When you are a Minister of Health and you decide to change the rules, you have to explain it to the doctors, to the women involved, to the politicians that we are. And if you change your mind, you also give the reasons and put in place a device. But I can't see anything! So I'd like to know why and what purpose you're pursuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u22	Madam Minister, the previous speakers have nevertheless forgotten to mention a number of things. In writing the royal decision on the reimbursement of mammographs, you have based yourself on the international guidelines which state that a biennial mammography in the context of a population survey, with all the associated quality requirements, is sufficient. In addition, you provide for the reimbursement of diagnostic mammography in case of a clear indication of breast cancer or any other breast disease. The questions put by the previous speakers show that the commotion arose in the French Community. You have put everything on hold because it is important in research into breast cancer that every woman in Belgium has the same information about this condition. Research carried out by the KCE, which is of course not only for Flanders research, shows that 80% or 90% of the invoiced diagnostic mammographs are regarded as diagnostic, whereas in reality these are screening mammographs that take place outside the population survey on breast cancer. In your royal decree, you have mainly based yourself on the findings of the KCE. Let me list some of them. Overconsumption of radiology is not without danger. We know that one in thirteen women under 50 years of age develop breast cancer through such a study whose importance has not been scientifically demonstrated, so we need to think about it further. An opportunistic screening can also be carried out by any radiologist, and does not include a standardised double reading, which is nevertheless seen as a quality criterion in the European recommendations. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. In Flanders the population survey breast cancer screening takes place at an interval of two years. The opportunistic mammographs usually happen every year. The question arises as to whether this is desirable from the point of view of public health. Is there any scientific evidence that an annual opportunistic mammography combined with ultrasound produces better results than a biennial survey based on population survey?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u23	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, following all that I have just heard, I would like to begin by recalling something. It's not by exchanging cartoons that we can do it. It is true that being exposed to rays is never annoyed. There are indeed radiation-induced cancers. We must always remain vigilant and attentive in this regard. The current international scientific recommendations do not call for systematic screening of all women before the age of 50. I totally agree with that. That being said, Madam Minister, you have sent a bad signal. You clearly went one step too far. You forgot that 20% of women with breast cancer are under the age of 50. You have forgotten that some women have a much higher risk than others, especially those with a family history. So it's a bad signal in relation to breast cancer screening. You're talking about a royal arrest suspended. But you signed this royal decree on 14 January, Madam Minister. It was published in the Belgian Monitor on 26 February. Let us be very clear: what about this royal decree which has not yet been abolished? You have also sent the circular on the application of this royal decree via the INAMI. It has already been distributed to all those who need to apply it. Minister, do you persist, yes or no, in eliminating any reimbursement for individual screening for women under the age of 45? I urge you to change this decision and adapt it, because it is entirely possible to reconcile it when women need it, for those who are most at risk, while minimizing and guaranteeing the least risk for radiation-induced cancers. Minister, amend your royal order! Listen to women and, above all, act for screening and mobilization against breast cancer! I think we've forgotten that in this case. Unfortunately, screening rates in Belgium are still insufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the misinformation, even false information, which has been circulating in the press and on social media in recent days, I must give you an explanation both detailed and educational; it is also addressed to you, Mr Laaouej. But above all, I must confess that I am outraged by the words that, for political reasons among others, have been made in recent days, without any inconvenience, on the backs of vulnerable women! Ladies and gentlemen, I find this scandalous! No one, I said no one, took the time, before leaving his point of view, to consult the scientific recommendations, the international guidelines, the KCE report, which are also the basis of this adaptation. No one even cared whether there had already been a consultation with the Communities, the Vlaams Agentschap, the ASBL Brumammo in Brussels, the JRC in Wallonia, specialists, radiologists, gynaecologists, senologists or even with Be.Seno. I think we want to undermine the model of consultation that is followed within INAMI in order to adapt or abolish benefits from the nomenclature in compulsory insurance. These may be purely and simply low blows given by certain groups for their benefit, and on the backs of vulnerable women who fear cancer. All the bodies concerned agreed: the Medical Technical Council, the National Medical-Mutualist Commission, the Budget Committee, the Health Care Insurance Committee and the Finance Inspectorate. Contrary to what has been claimed in some press releases, amendments to the nomenclature should not be approved by the Council of Ministers. So I ask you to be attentive. It affects me a lot that even you, the parliamentarians, have not taken any initiative to consult all the opinions that have been given! In Belgium, breast cancer screening was already carried out in different ways in the North and the South. This is known. This will continue to be the case, even after the nomenclature has been adapted, the entry into force of which has been put on hold as a result of this scandalous affair. First, we have routine screening for women between the ages of 50 and 69. It takes place every two years and is financed by the INAMI Federal Nomenclature. The test is free and is done on a voluntary basis. These benefits have been included in the nomenclature since 2001, and this will not change. A second reading of the results is also planned. That's the one that's changing. Secondly, there are the mammography benefits provided in the nomenclature for women with symptoms. They are now used for screening at any age, although the purpose of these benefits was to perform diagnostic examinations only. It is attested that these benefits are inappropriately used for testing. At the beginning of 2016, a first opening was made in the nomenclature for individual detection of cancer in women with an increased risk of breast cancer, regardless of age. The scheme for mammography for women with a high risk of breast cancer, without age limitation, without remand, remains unchanged. Until now, there has been no provision for an individual detection of breast cancer in the nomenclature for women without cancer. It's those women who do that more in Wallonia. That is exactly what this RB intended to do for a wider group of women than in the population survey and with a wider frequency, namely once a year. The possible accumulation with ultrasound is not excluded, but included in the provision, because there is hardly any evidence to do so in screening of women without symptoms. Here, too, a second reading was provided, so also better quality. For the first time, therefore, in the long history of this dossier in our country, I give a place and a refund of the individual screening mammography for women from 45 to 74 years of age. In addition, an incentive is given to promote quality by also giving the possibility, and an injection of eight million euros, to switch to digital mammography, thus also improving the quality of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u25	Can you decide, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President, but with so much misery being poured out on me, I have the right to give an answer! Why this change? Since 2006, the National Commission on Doctors-Sickness Funds has been streamlining the nomenclature of mammography with internationally recommended guidelines. This objective was also included in the cancer plan in Action 4. At the same time, attempts were made to scientifically support this and thus avoid overconsumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u27	Okay. I suggest you stick to that, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u28	Mr President, I would like to tell you that there is a better way of working: more participation, less radiation, fewer cancers caused by this radiation. So it was asked on hold and sent back. It is scheduled on Monday in the insurance committee of the RIZIV and the same evening also within the National Committee of Doctors-Sickness Funds. It's up to them to see what needs to be done, after all that it took for nothing. I hope that the consultative bodies will be respected in their role!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u29	Madam Minister, we will agree on one point: breast cancer screening must be a public health priority. Mammotest and individual screening must be combined so that any anomalies can be detected in all women in a timely manner. This disease is better treated as it is detected early! The rate of past testing is still far too low! The realities of the country's North and South are significantly different! We condemn your contemptuous attitude, "motus and sewn mouth", since the beginning of the polemic, the time to sharpen the weapons no doubt, which, today, you should lower. We urge you never to take into account the realities of the southern part of the country and of French-speaking women! [[Protests]] Your answer is not convincing: for our group, this reaction is pitiful!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u30	You didn't listen!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u31	Minister, we all agree that breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in women. Whether one opts for one-on-one testing or free testing, these two options must be considered valid by each. Every woman has to choose the screening she wants. If the purpose of your royal decree is to save money, it should be achieved elsewhere, but not at that level. Are you so sure about suspending your arrest? I'm beginning to have doubts because of your reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u32	Minister, we are faced with a failure to agree and explain your policies. You accuse us of not reading the reports and the scientific studies. I didn't tell you about that. I didn't tell you you were wrong on the whole line. I told you that you were silent, that you were not giving explanations, that there were women who were afraid of dying because of breast cancer, or that they were afraid that it would not be detected quickly enough. They are told of measures that seem to reduce their chances of survival. That is what we are facing today. In your answer, you are yelling at us! That's a good thing. And then? You're not saying you're going to explain yourself otherwise. You need to talk to women, people, doctors. You have to confront doctors who have different opinions. Then you will come out of this as the true Minister of Health, taking into account the realities of each.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. You have explained a great deal today about matters that other colleagues might not read on their own. You've had a lot of discussions. Your royal decree was based on international guidelines, scientific evidence and research conducted by the KCE. Overconsumption needs to be addressed in the context of public health and these resources should be targeted. The explanation we have received from you today clearly shows that this has happened. I think a woman in the north of the country is the same as in the south, so there is no need for another arrangement here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u34	Madam Minister, to accuse those who have spoken on the subject of lying does not grow up! It's not all to throw in your royal decree. The part of the second reading is interesting, as well as that of the transition to digital mammo. Certain aspects of this royal decree can and must be maintained. At the same time, you forget to talk about the heart of the discussion, whether or not you have prevented any reimbursement of individual testing for a woman under 45 years of age, even with a family history and even if, therefore, she is more at risk. The answer is yes! You did it! That's where we have to go back! You made two mistakes. First, you forgot about women in your consultation! Second mistake, you signed this royal decree on January 14 in catini! You are much faster to communicate when it is "sexy" information! Minister, I am making an alternative proposal. Make this royal decree evolve! Keep what's good! And keep the refund for women under 45 years of age who have a family history and are at risk!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u36	You have made it possible for very high-risk women to receive a refund. Conversely, for women who are at moderate risk, women who are not in the category of very high risk, you have removed the refund of the screening! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u37	Mrs Fonck, you no longer have the floor!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u38	Minister, in the province of Luxembourg, urgent medical aid is organised through a partnership between an intercommunal and relief services. The province and the municipalities contribute €4 million each year. The goal, which you share, is to reach a free medical interlude of fifteen minutes. Last week, to hear statements from the head of the relief zone, the number of ambulances was to be reduced from 33 to 17 in that province. You can imagine the ramdam that it may have caused. Probably it's still a fake news, but I'd like you to confirm it. We know that the funding and organization of emergency medical assistance needs to be reviewed, including through a supplementary budget that the government has approved. It is also well known that you are aiming to reach the free medical interlude in 90% of cases. Madam Minister, I come to my questions. Do you confirm this 50% decrease in the number of ambulances? What will be the fate of the 10% of cases left behind? In terms of public health, it is of course important to ensure the equal treatment of all our citizens. With this in mind, how will you view rural areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u39	Mr Piedboeuf, the discussion in the province of Luxembourg is clearly the result of an out-of-context interpretation of the unplanned care plan. You know that this government has tripled the budget for emergency medical aid from €26 million to €74 million per year. For the first time since the 1964 Act came into force, the minimum service threshold will be defined. The level agreement service aims to ensure that the interventions carried out in this context are carried out within 15 minutes and reach 90% of our citizens. For the sake of efficiency, simulations of the number of departures were organized in order to reach the threshold. It has been shown that these interventions could take place through 350 departures, but this number is not absolute. A sine qua non for achieving this objective is that each ambulance departure takes place at the tenured permanence. These 350 departures not only ensure a patient's presence within 15 minutes, but also ensure that 98% of the procedures are completed within 20 minutes. This aspiration must lead to a better guarantee of service for citizens, unless there is pressure on staff and finance for outpatient services and an increase in the amount of the grant. As far as rural areas are concerned, this is a point of attention in our plan. If it is appropriate that ambulance services with fewer interventions organise a permanent stay in these rural areas, the necessary support will be provided in this regard. There are currently waiting times of up to 40 minutes in these rural areas. Programming needs to be properly tailored to the needs of the field and various scenarios are developed according to the Region. The best scenario must be chosen, but this choice has not yet been made. The guiding principle of this choice must be an effective care offering that meets the needs of patients across the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you. I'm reassured, of course, because you ended up saying "in the whole country." It is true that we are talking at this time about the province of Luxembourg for another subject, but it is a wonderful land of welcome. There are many Flemish tourists coming to our house. They too must be rescued within fifteen minutes and it is therefore important that this free medical interlude be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u41	What about the Walloons?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u42	But the Walloons are there, Mr. Laaouej. It is therefore important to install this free medical interlude in 90 per cent of the territory and to ensure that the remaining 10 per cent of the delays are addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u43	Minister, the debate on whether or not the military service is being re-established has been repeated regularly and has been held in the media over the last few days. In 1992, military service was abolished. According to a recent opinion poll, 66% of our country's inhabitants would be in favour of the re-establishment of the military service or a similar service, for example a community service. I think that this poll is important, especially since we find that a country such as Sweden has recently re-established the military service. Even President Macron wasn't expecting it from the man, but nevertheless, he's considering the same thing. You are not in favour of it, or at least you say that with a compulsory military service you do not attract the profile of candidate soldiers you are looking for for Defence. The army is high-tech, so you need people with a pretty technical education. Miliciens will not make the difference, is your statement. I am in favour of the re-establishment of military service, not only because I have been allowed to serve as a reserve officer in the 6th Line Storm Fusseliers, yes, I have served the homeland, but also because the military service benefits the moral and physical resilience of our youth. It is also a question of respect, discipline, civic spirit and the cultivation of solidarity. You may not like to hear it from me, but I also see an opportunity to integrate all groups of whatever ethnic, social or other origins they may be, and to learn to live together in a clear framework that the army certainly offers. For these reasons, I do not think that we should simply ignore the possibility of the military service being re-established. I am also in the context of current social and geopolitical developments. That is how I refer to the various military threats that are coming to us in Europe. That requires us to think about reintroducing the military service. Minister, I would have liked to have heard your views on this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u44	Mr Dewinter, like you, I have experienced in the past what it is to serve in this country. With me, it wasn't about the storm fusiliers. I was with the medical company. I was also a Petty Officer and not an officer. Nevertheless, I found that there were many good things to learn but also that the system was not entirely fair. For example, ladies could not participate in the compulsory military service system. I also noted that the military service was not so compulsory, since only 20% of the people who were eligible to do the military service also effectively fulfilled the military service. I would also like to correct your references to other countries. In these countries, especially in Scandinavia and the Baltic States, where military service is introduced, this is done on a voluntary basis. That is something I believe in, Mr Dewinter. We are taking serious steps today to upgrade our reserve. We're doing field tests with reservists, in specialist tasks, to do the tasks that Defense stands for today. It is a question of commitment to operations, whether at home or abroad, with high-tech equipment and well-trained. Above all, they must be well motivated. Mr Dewinter, if you look back on your experience, you will find with me that there was also a whole package among the conscripts that was not motivated. What we need are motivated soldiers who are ready for the job, the core tasks that this government has decided on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u45	Minister, I am pleased that you are at least a cool lover of the re-entry of the military service into that constellation. You're pleading for a possible voluntary military service. I have a few comments to make. There are countries where even the ladies are called under arms, for example Israel. Secondly, with regard to the fact that young people would not have the right profile, I dare to dispute that. Many of our young graduates in all possible directions - civil engineers, computer analysts and so on - could certainly play a role in that high-tech army. Thirdly, I remember from my military time that we were deployed at the time of the threat of the CCC, the terrorist organisation that was then active in this country. We did orders from what we called MVG, the military defence of the territory. I remember serving, for example, with a unit, to protect the target nuclear power station and to carry out surveillance orders there. We really do not need high-tech training for this. As far as the consideration of going to a voluntary military service is concerned, it may be much more than that for me. However, it is a good thing that meets the needs of the army. If I'm properly informed, you'll need 7 400 new recruits. You find it difficult and this is a possibility. I am convinced that there is a willingness on the part of young people to take up their responsibilities on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this government's newsletter arrived, as it does every year, at Easter. The least we can say is that he's not very bright. The Monitoring Committee's figures are even very alarming: between 734 million and 1.4 billion. It's not nothing! This leads us in the worst case to an amount of 4.5 billion to be found. For my part, I am not surprised too much. As every year, I see that your measures are in the right direction but not deep enough. I understand that after so many years of uncontrolled spending policy, a much more multi-directional and rigorous approach is needed. Of course, invariably, you have to go through new expenditure reduction measures, which would be totally unacceptable for the citizens already involved in a whole series of measures you have taken. The evidence that your revenue works only half: we are below the European average in terms of growth and job creation. Your instability with regard to the Energy Pact is felt at the level of potential investors. Minister, be pragmatic and not dogmatic! My question is both simple and complicated. Where are you going to get these 4.5 billion without going, once again, into the pockets of workers and social recipients?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u47	Madam Minister, the government has started its task with a huge budget deficit, over 3%. In the meantime, we have confirmed this on several occasions, and two thirds of that problem has been solved. So we've done a very strong job. According to the latest report from the Monitoring Committee, we are on the right track. However, that is not enough. We will need EUR 700 million to achieve the objective set. However, I believe that we need to be even more ambitious and set the target at EUR 1.4 billion, which is also mentioned in the report, in order to further reduce the structural deficit. We need to keep that structural deficit down steadily and surely. The economy's doing just fine. This is a time to prepare our society for less good years, which inevitably, sooner or later, will arrive. How do we get that short, colleagues? There's gonna be an index jump earlier than expected. It'll have an effect. We also have some policies to implement. I also call on everyone in the government to do so as soon as possible. Of course, we will also have to make a few additional efforts. These efforts, Madam Minister, will have to be on the expenditure side, because despite all the efforts we have already made, we are still a country with a very large public debt. Madam Minister, we agreed a few months ago that we would continue to reduce the structural deficit. Will we comply with that agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u48	Madam Secretary, five prime ministers are currently accompanying the King in Canada. He was even accompanied by a delegation of more than 200 people, but the Prime Minister was not there. He couldn't come because he got a bad report from the Monitoring Committee. Now I wonder if the report is so bad that he doesn't even want to answer my question and that's why you should do it? Madam Minister, last year you unleashed the flagship of the balance of the budget. The explanation was that you didn't want to tell people vesicles. Thus, the European minimum savings of 0.6% of GDP were chosen. Well, it turns out, however, that the light scenario does not work either, because there is still a deficit of EUR 1.4 billion, and that in times of such low interest burden. I recall very well that, Madam Minister, when the European Commission was particularly critical of the draft budget for 2018, you accused her of being pessimistic. That's what I call telling people vesicles. I suppose you will now opt for an ultra-light diet, Madam Secretary, one of EUR 714 million. Due to the technical intervention that the government already likes to make, the result is likely to be that we will save less than EUR 714 million. I like to think back to the time when people said that the invoice would not be sent to our children. I can only say that today we are not only sending the invoice to our children, but also to our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. I have the impression that I see Guy Verhofstadt again:words, words, words. A large part of the population is also falling for it. The model state of purple was a mess, but the model state of the Swedish coalition seems to be a big balloon. Could you explain a little more about that big balloon and how it's all worked out, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, wise ladies and gentlemen have looked deeply into the Treasury and seen that there is a deficit of EUR 4 billion. The current government still has two challenging seasons ahead of it to keep the budget on track. It is not because a country is a bad player that it gets a yellow card from Europe. That means it should be very careful for the rest of the game. Indeed, our political legacy for children and grandchildren must be as limited as possible with debts. To this end, a smart policy must be pursued in the coming years. We must enable the combination of work and family, so that people are longer in good health and find the combination of work and family doable. We must also invest in quality of life so that people can be healthy for longer and thus reduce health costs, which will benefit the budget. The budget has two sides: revenue and expenditure. Just as a good housemother and your colleague do a good housemother, both sides need to be looked at. We expect the government to do so in a serious way. After all, we have not yet achieved the balance of the budget. However, we do not criticize the recipes. After all, the economic choices made are the right choices. Unemployment continued to fall, i.e. to 7.2 % in 2017. According to the latest reports, it will fall further in the coming months. The recipe for jobs, jobs, jobs is not just an empty slogan. It is the best way to get the budget in order. Madam Secretary, if we did not take action, the deficit would increase. It is therefore important that we know the ambition of the current government this afternoon. What structural measures will it pursue? What will she put into it? It is very important in budgetary control that all ministers can deliver what they committed themselves to during the negotiations. They must also be able to effectively bring in or save this commitment. This must be done through smart proposals, through sustainable clean-up, through investment in families and health, through competition and through investment that is profitable. After all, the work is anything but finished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u50	I thank everyone for the interesting questions, and Mrs Wouters for her interesting introduction, which is far from reality, but well, that's just what we are. The report of the Monitoring Committee is indeed the starting point of the budgetary conclave. In fact, this report says two things. First, the report confirms the good results of 2017. This means that the deficit has been reduced three times in three years and has reached a level that has never been so low in the last ten years. Does that mean the work is done? Definitely not. Secondly, the report updates the current budget, the initial budget for 2018. This is completely normal. This initial budget was drawn up nine months ago, in July. Indeed, the report indicates that an effort must be made from EUR 700 million to EUR 1.4 billion, depending on the objective to be pursued. That objective will be determined in the government as a whole. It is true that the Monitoring Committee mentions different variations that negatively affect the budget. I am thinking, for example, of exceeding the central index, which was originally not foreseen. I am also thinking of the additional costs for pensions, which were not originally calculated in this way either. After all, pensions are rising. However, there are also positive aspects which have a positive impact on the budget. For example, social security contributions and unemployment benefits could increase as a direct positive effect of the jobs created. 180 000 jobs have been created, that is not a slogan, because the impact on the budget is seen. What happens now? The experts are now working to analyse the Monitoring Committee's report on a regular basis. I have heard of the Commission and it is true that the government's work will be in full dialogue with it, as it has always done. Indeed, in the past, the Commission has been much more pessimistic in its projections. We were able to show him, at the end of 2017, that we were on the right track. Moreover, what is also important to understand, with regard to these famous amounts of up to 1.4 billion, is that the nominal differential is "only" – as the amounts are still of course large – of 576 million euros. The difference between the nominal balance and the structural balance is 900 million. Mr Laaouej, the EUR 700 million output gap, that is not nothing when we know that this is a technical correction. As far as the measures to be taken are concerned, I understand the will of each other to know the outcome of the budgetary conclave before it has even begun. I'll just tell you to wait and work in the right order. Let us get together and work seriously. Keep in mind that we have been working from the beginning on fiscal consolidation and economic recovery, while keeping in mind that fiscal consolidation does not conflict with economic recovery. This is also reflected in the 2017 results as well as in the creation of jobs: these measures have had their effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Nevertheless, I fear that, as always, it is in the pockets of the citizens that you will go. Have you thought for a moment of reducing public spending, eliminating unnecessary institutions, rather than eliminating reimbursements of mammography costs in the context of breast cancer prevention? I think it would be good governance, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u52	Madam Minister, it is true that we are at the beginning of budgetary control. I think we should take a serious look at that. The budget consists of revenue and expenditure for the government. For the income we are on schedule, for the expenditure there is still some work. The recipes this government follows work. Let's keep it up. I also learned something new today. That is quite impressive: the Vuye&Wouters Group is apparently in favour of extending the royal missions. It equals budgetary Orthodox policy to a period when the budget was rebuilt with pension funds and the empty Silver Fund. We have to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u53	Madam Minister, you say that the differences are largely due to the index. That's a death doer we hear a lot. I am convinced that a precautionary principle must above all be applied. The Prime Minister likes to compare himself with Prime Minister Martens and Prime Minister Dehaene. I think that's wrong. This government is more of a government of communication. If I were to compare this government with a government, I would like to compare it with the Verhofstadt government. Mr Dewael, you look like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u54	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u55	In the Martens administration, the budget deficit had decreased by 2%. In the Dehaene administration, the budget deficit had decreased by 1%. In the Michel administration, the budget deficit had not decreased by 0.4% but by 0.2%, because the other half we have to allocate to very low interest charges. You must also admit that, Madam Secretary. Those aren't my words, those are Professor Moesen's words. The Moesen norm was a once so popular standard but it has exchanged this government for the Verhofstadt norm: communicating, communicating, communicating. Now this is Verhofstadt's decision on budget. That big balloon's gonna get pierced. The only question is, when? For us, preferably as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u56	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Getting a budget in order is a very serious matter. If measures are proposed and if there is a meeting with the government, then every figure behind every line in the budget must have a credible plan. Allow me to comment on that as a critical remark. Some figures and lines have been missed in recent years. We must continue to work on quality of life, investing in family, health and growth. Those aren't empty words. We are optimistic about this, because this government has shown that it can do it. Let us be equally pessimistic in certain budgetary conclaves, so that we do not have to repair things afterwards. After all, prevention is always better than cure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u57	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, six months after the fipronil egg case, we are facing a new health scandal whose consequences and ramifications we are not yet measuring. Mr Minister, you spoke of "mafia practices" and you announced the conduct of an external audit of the AFSCA, the same audit that you and the majority colleagues refused us six months ago after the fipronil crisis. Back then, you closed the door. We were told: "Dear opposition colleagues, move! There is nothing to be seen, nothing to be said, nothing to be done!" On the contrary, we think that there was still much to see and much to say. What is distressing is the fact, Mr President, that the lessons of the fipronil crisis have not been learned. Even yesterday, the Minister of Justice, replying to a colleague, said: "Although the agency", therefore the AFSCA, "was aware from the beginning, she never showed up with the investigating magistrate to argue the need for urgent intervention". Minister, what does your Justice colleague's response inspire you? There is also the question of responsibility. We must not get rid of this because, as the responsible minister of the AFSCA, you are responsible for the proper functioning, the exchange of administrative and judicial information. In your policy note last October, you mentioned your intention to put in place a memorandum of understanding between the AFSCA and your firm to regulate the modalities of exchange and communication in sensitive matters. Minister, my questions are as follows. Has this Memorandum of Understanding been put in place as announced? If so, when? So, we don't understand why, on February 28, 2018, you say you don't know about the file. If not, why? If this memorandum of understanding has not been achieved, what have you done in the last six months? Is there not, in this case, a lack of prevention on your part?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u58	Mr President, Minister, how much confidence can people still have in the quality of the meat on their plate? The slaughterhouse Veviba sold meat 12 years old. The slaughterhouse Veviba just sold meat as organic meat. The control of 200 palettes of meat showed that 70% of them were not fit for human consumption. And every day we hear something new. At such a time, Minister, all the alarm bells should be ringing at our food agency. People can only be reassured about the quality of the meat on their plate if the government controls very strictly. What did the Director of the Food Agency, Mr Diricks, tell us Monday in Parliament? He said he didn't do anything for a year and a half because the file was in the hands of the court. However, the answer to my question yesterday, addressed to your colleague from the Justice Department, shows that the food agency should not wait at all for the Justice Department to take action. On the contrary, the food agency was allowed to carry out additional checks and it was allowed to suspend or even close the company. For 18 months, our food agency did not take any action and took no initiative. This is unacceptable. For all these months, we ate that meat. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, how will you ensure that people regain confidence in the quality of the meat on their plate? Secondly, how much longer will you cover up the lies of top man Diricks? In the meantime, both the European Commission and the Court of Auditors criticized the operation of our food agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u59	Minister, we learned with great dismay what happened at the Veviba site in Bastogne: we sell meat that is twelve years old with a new label; there are pieces unfit for consumption in the hachis; and finally, 48 hours ago, we learned that products labelled "organic" would have been sold when they were not organic. We are sinking into this issue of fraud, which is becoming more and more alarming. In October 2016, a complaint was brought back from Kosovo. And nothing has been done. On Monday, the managing director of AFSCA replied: "I couldn't do anything. When a case is under investigation, I can no longer intervene." Your colleague the Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, overturned this. He said it wasn't true, that we could take action. And, second, there had been no request from the AFSCA to the investigating judge to expedite the proceedings or to take action. On Monday, in committee, the head of your administration lied to us. Minister, I ask you to take a position on this. Yes or no, will you accept that one lies with impunity before the committee, that one of your heads of administration tell us that he could do nothing when he could act? My second request concerns the number of checks. Numbers were presented to us on Monday. Mr Diricks' figures made it very clear that there are different types of holdings: type 1, type 2 and type 3.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The figures provided by the Commission show clearly that there has been no increase in the number of controls in 2016. Can you confirm that there has been no increase and how do you feel about that? That is my third question, Minister. You made it clear in committee on Monday that workers in Verbist companies should not be victims of this situation, that you would refuse economic unemployment because neither these workers nor the public authorities have to pay for a fault that has been committed by the private sector. Yesterday we learned that there will be economic unemployment in one of these companies, namely Rochefort. Why do these workers, who are in no way responsible for the actions of their management, have to pay for this crisis? I repeat that, on Monday, you made a commitment that this would not be the case. Why are not all workers in the group protected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u60	Mr President, Minister, our agricultural sector, our farmers are making enormous efforts to ensure the welfare of their animals. That is where the basis lies, the basis for delivering quality products to the consumer, quality products that you, I and we all get on our plate. In recent years, there have been a lot of positive evolutions. I am thinking, for example, of the short chain through which consumers can get their goods directly from the producer. In Flanders, Minister Weyts takes very firm action against cases of animal cruelty, and with results. All this should lead to a good relationship of trust between the consumer and the producer. But no, it's in vain. The scandals that came to light last week are causing confidence to crumble and the producer to become suspicious. Many questions can rightly be asked about the various inspection bodies and their cooperation. We look forward to the results of the various reports. In the meantime, however, the Agrofront, the sector, was also working together to discuss the problem, because all livestock farmers are threatened by the malpractices in this Luxembourg slaughterhouse. Minister, what steps will you take, together with the Länder, to reduce the economic loss to livestock farmers and ensure that such charlatans will no longer have a chance in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u61	As has already been said, we are going to add the questions of coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u62	Mr President, Minister, deliberately cheating consumers for profit, you called this mafia practice. I agree with you, these are mafia practices. The farmer is barely getting money, the animals are being mistreated, the consumer does not know whether what is on his plate is safe and the food agency is poorly monitoring and communicating confusedly. No one believes this is an isolated incident anymore. Colleagues have already mentioned enough examples: the fipronil crisis, rot horse meat, contaminated milk powder, old meat for new sales, organic meat mixed with ordinary meat. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, not only the meat is rotten, but also the system. This government doesn't take this seriously enough. Saying something is mafia is okay, but these mobsters also need to be dealt with decisively. For Ecolo-Green food safety is always on the increase. You, Minister, must ensure that the food agency has sufficient resources to be able to monitor thoroughly. My questions for you are next. First of all, is this scandal the tip of the iceberg? Do you know of any other fraud files, whether or not they are on the investigators' table? Secondly, how is it that the number of checks has fallen in recent years? In two years it has fallen from 130 000 to 119 000. Thirdly, do you want to save... see the reduced amount for the agency... or do you want to invest in food safety? Finally, are you going to return the food agency where it belongs, namely under Public Health? Even the father of the BFSA, Piet Vanthemsche, has agreed with me in an interview at the RTBF. Your colleague, Minister De Block, said in De Agrea that she would not explicitly say no if she was offered it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I feel disgust and disapproval for a company such as Veviba. I also said this on Monday in committee after hearing you all well and at 100% during the hearing. Let's face it, the main culprit of this crisis is the company. Everyone is, however, the victim of these abuses: consumers, farmers, butchers, supermarkets and all bona fide businesses in the sector. Every scandal means a crisis of confidence that is hard to reverse. That's bad for the sector. It will require a lot of money, time, energy and, above all, resilience from the whole sector to regain consumer confidence. Mr. Secretary, I expect action. Public health may not have been at risk, therefore, but my stomach is turning to the idea that children from our country and also from Kosovo would have eaten meat of 12 years old. That's 12 bridges too far ethically. Minister, you promised decisive action and an audit at the BFSA. Reasons for the necessity of this audit have just been raised by my colleagues and by me in committee on Monday. An assessment of this crisis is also important in the short term. Yesterday, in the Committee on Justice, it was clear that at least we could frown on the judicial process. Minister, you spoke in this crisis about mafia practices. Well, the Mafia must be combated in all areas. I expect you to have clear timing, decisive policies and the identification of those responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee on Monday, the behaviour of fraudsters and cheaters must determine that we have a zero-tolerance policy against all those who, in the interest of achieving additional benefits, pose a health risk to consumers. We are perfectly determined to do so. I have the feeling that Parliament, beyond the majority/opposition divide, accompanies my desire to see the way in which the AFSCA managed this issue objectively between October 2016 and February 2018. Today I will receive the report which will allow us to point out the shortcomings that will undoubtedly be noted. I will forward this report, as I have committed myself to it, to the committee chairmen, Mr Delizée and Mrs Gerkens, on tomorrow's day. As you know, the judicial investigation in this file began in October 2016. This investigation is based on the finding of fraud by the BFSA, namely the presence of non-compliant meat in Kosovo. The Agency then informed the judicial authorities about this. Did the research prevent the BFSA from increasing its controls at the company Veviba? No, Mrs Lambrecht. You asked the Minister of Justice this question yesterday in committee. I repeat the answer I gave on Monday at the United Committees for Health and Business: no. Nothing prevented the BFSA from increasing its controls. Mrs Gantois, you are right to be concerned about the impact of this fraud on the sector. From the outset, I said that it would be unacceptable if the whole meat sector were indirectly affected by the mafia practices of one of the operators. We were able to make a number of contacts with the sectors: the Agrofront was received. We have invited professional agricultural organisations to make a number of proposals through which we could help the sector. We have also been able to have contacts with other stakeholders in the meat sector, including the Food Chain Concertation, the Federation of Butchers and other sectors, including consumer representatives. Today, we are in close contact with these actors to make proposals to implement new practices. However, from now on, I have wanted to put in place a number of measures to support the sector, namely: - the carry-over of one year and without any increase in social contributions for the four quarters of 2018; - recognition of the sectors of activity concerned as sectors in crisis in order to enable them to adapt their provisional social contributions more flexibly; - the consolidation of applications for exemption from contributions from the Commission for exemption from contributions in order to ensure uniform treatment of such applications. That is what I have done, which will, I hope, enable an affected sector to benefit from support measures. Of course, they won't be the only ones. We continue to work, in particular with the Agrofront, which I expect to have very concrete proposals. Mr President, in order to be as comprehensive as possible, I will also say that at present, in three quarters of the European countries, the Minister for Agriculture is responsible for food security. There is, of course, a sense that agriculture, the first link in the chain, is supported by the Minister for Food Security. There is no challenge to this principle by the government today. That is probably why there was an amendment in 2007. Prior to that date, the Minister of Health was responsible for food safety. This situation was changed in 2017; this change corresponds to realities that need to be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. In relation to the external audit, if there had been a break-up between majority and opposition six months ago, we would not have wasted this time doing nothing. We could have already obtained the first elements of the case. So, it's good news that we're getting them tomorrow. As far as AFSCA is concerned, "the baby should not be thrown away with bath water". Our citizens, consumers need more AFSCA and better AFSCA. Organizing a debate on means is crucial. It would take a magician government to explain that by reducing the means every year, we are going to do more checks. The AFSCA means, number and quality of controls are also part of the discussion. As far as responsibility is concerned, blowing up a fuse is easy. But the responsibility today is to thoroughly reform the control procedures, to say that as the minister responsible, you are responsible for the operation of the exchange of administrative and judicial information. If faults have been committed, they will have to be held accountable. About the trusteeship on the AFSCA, it was a historical mistake to change her department. The current priority, if we observe the scandal, is food security, public health. That the controllers depend on the same department as the controlled ones, it's not a good thing. This is in any case the view of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u66	Mr. Secretary, we agree. I share your disgust and I support your support for the sector. Ensuring food safety must be a top priority for the whole government. However, the doubt in the proper functioning of the food agency is certainly not gone. Topman Diricks said on Monday on the committee that he couldn't act because of the judicial investigation. So he lied on the committee. Topman Diricks also lied on Sunday in Seventh Day. What will he do on Monday? Can we hope that he will speak the truth at the committee meeting on Monday? You have my support for the audit, but the food agency can't wait months for an audit. It needs to be better managed urgently, starting today. Out of respect for the consumer, out of concern for public health and out of respect for the producer farmers who mean it very well, I expect immediate action from this government. Play today. Show strength, Minister. Show zero tolerance for lying about controls and about our food quality. Only then will you have us all in your story.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u67	Minister, there is one major problem with the BFSA: in Belgium meat production is becoming increasingly concentrated in a small part of the economic world. One group holds 30% of the market. Merger follows merger. The logic of these groups is only: profit, profit, profit. In this context, the gravity of the controls in Belgium lies on self-control. We believe that self-control will strike a balance between profit-making and good and good food on the table. That is the problem, Minister. This problem lies between a Minister of Agriculture who is only thinking about increasing the benefits of this sector, and a Minister of Health who should only think about protecting us. This contradiction is present here in Belgium, Mr Ducrame. This is why these two functions must be decoupled, because our well-being must take precedence over the benefits of the sector. This is not the case today in Belgium!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u68	Mr. Secretary, you've been with the sector. A number of measures are already on the table and others will follow. I expect that we will hear more about this at the committee meeting on Monday, including how things should proceed now. What I do not understand is, however, that no one refers to possible obvious solutions, for example the blockchain system. Carrefour announced a few hours ago that it is entering that secure digital database, allowing the product to be tracked from its origins to the consumer. We need to do much more on this. I myself am a big fan of the short chain and the butcher around the corner, but we are a country where freedom of choice prevails, so anyone who chooses to buy his meat in a department store is entitled to clean meat. We must work together to find solutions, because it has been enough. Veviba is a disgrace and stylish spoilers have to get out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u69	Minister, we naturally agree that you are proposing an audit. After all, we had proposed this ourselves during the fipronil crisis. Each stone must now be reversed to remove the system errors. You have heard and applied our proposal, but I also propose a new one. You are talking about taking more overarching measures, but the government absolutely must draw up a coordinated action plan, with Justice, with Consumer Protection, with the Social Inspectorate, with Agriculture and with Health, so that the BFSA will not be able to say anything in the future. Finally, I am very sorry that you continue to claim jurisdiction over the BFSA, while there is great support for transferring it to Public Health. As long as the BFSA remains under the competence of Agriculture, it will remain a game of poacher and forest ranger. The historical error that has happened with the transfer of the BFSA from Health to Agriculture absolutely must be corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u70	Minister, this crisis affects various policy areas: consumer rights, justice, agriculture, public health, business and the economy. Many are competent and few feel responsible. That is why, like Monday, I once again call for an umbrella body which can act decisively. The department to which it is attached is not important, but the decisiveness with which it can act across the various policy areas in these crisis situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u71	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u72	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Fatma Pehlivan, Wouter De Vriendt, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Dirk Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u73	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2211/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2211/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Resolution on the efforts of Belgian Development Cooperation to achieve sustainable development goals on global gender equality and women's empowerment." The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the efforts of Belgian Development Cooperation to achieve the objectives of sustainable development in the field of gender equality and the empowerment of women on a global scale". The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Capoen and I would like to refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u75	In the general discussion I shall first give the floor to the first author of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Pehlivan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u76	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week Thursday 8 March 2018 was International Women's Day. That is a day every year where there is little to celebrate and the more injustice is to be regretted. Colleagues, worldwide there are 28 child marriages per minute. More than three million girls are circumcised every year. Also 131 million girls do not receive education. Those are just a few figures that we heard at the SheDecides meeting last week on International Women's Day. Such figures are not only evidence of indefenable injustice, they are also an obstacle to achieving sustainable development goals and giving all people, especially women, opportunities for happiness and prosperity. Colleagues, all studies agree that focusing on well-being and women's rights has a general positive impact on society. It provides higher prosperity, more security, more security and more opportunities for children to develop. In short, investing in women is investing in change and improvement. By investing consistently and ambitiously in African women, and in women worldwide, we are strengthening their role in society, enabling us to have a greater impact on poverty, worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, in Belgian development policy there is a strong focus on gender. I am talking not only about the Minister's SheDecides initiative, but also about the commitment of all parties in this House. In 2013, 2015 and 2017, we unanimously adopted resolutions on this issue. Resolutions on child marriages, the importance of good health care and education. Those were proposals from the different political families. We approved it unanimously. Colleagues, this resolution builds on previous initiatives and focuses on how we can make a stronger development policy possible. We're asking for gender data. Gender data, the collection of data that systematically map the gender dimension, are needed to achieve measurable results. Here in Belgium we have a lot of know-how in data collection and data processing. This resolution therefore calls for this knowledge, that experience that we have, to be integrated into the gender strategy of our development policy. Not only to strengthen our own programmes and the desired impact of those programmes, but also to share with our partners that knowledge and experience we have. With hard figures in black and white, women and action groups in our partner countries are stronger when they ask or demand better policies from governments. Public authorities in the South can then pursue a stronger gender policy. Ladies and gentlemen, without a global strengthening of gender policy, it will be impossible for the UNDP to achieve the goals of sustainable development. That is why we will pay the price, with a more unsafe but also poorer world. That is why it is important for the government to translate the requests in this resolution into practice as soon as possible. In this way, we can work together with our partners from Belgium. We can then achieve results in the challenge we face. We will also ensure that the Minister quickly implements the recommendations in this resolution. In this way, we can strengthen Belgian gender policies both from the opposition and from the government in our partner countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted this resolution unanimously in committee. I would like to thank all my colleagues for their valuable input. There were amendments tabled by several colleagues who strengthened the resolution. I therefore thank them for their support. I hope that we will be able to adopt the resolution unanimously here in plenary, as in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The content of the resolution has already been extensively cited by its author, Mrs Pehlivan. In short, there is still inequality for girls, this from birth. It is clear that we need to take action to address this gender gap. This should be done on the basis of the SDGs, in particular SDG 5 which stands for achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. How are we supposed to do this? By measuring more, collecting data and then making that data available. The N-VA Group had very few comments on this resolution, because the resolution is actually in line with the government agreement and also with the policy paper of Minister De Croo. This is also part of the reforms already undertaken by Minister De Croo and this government. Greater commitment to data evaluation and digitisation can always count on our support, especially in budgetary tight times. This means that the budget, which is often limited, can be used better and more efficiently. This theme is followed very closely in the Chamber. Mrs Pehlivan has already referred to a number of resolutions, including the resolution on the fight against forced child marriages. I would also like to refer to a resolution on education for girls in developing countries, of which I was also the author and which in fact is already a concrete application of the principle of the present text. The N-VA Group will therefore support the resolution, as amended after the committee hearings, by adopting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u78	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the recent US presidential elections have had serious internal consequences, of course, but unfortunately also at the international level. I am thinking in particular of the decision to re-establish the so-called global gag rule, which runs counter to sexual health and reproductive rights. The Trump administration's decision results in an annual shortfall of $600 million for associations involved in family planning and women's rights in developing countries. This policy reinforces the opposition to sexual and reproductive rights that unfortunately already exist. It will also address some of the sustainable development goals, including the call for universal access to sexual and reproductive health by 2030, which is completely out of reach. This decision is obviously unacceptable and calls for a response from the international community. No, sexual and reproductive rights cannot be taken hostage by the conservative policy of the United States or any other country! Belgium really has a leading role to play in this area. I therefore welcome the initiatives taken by our country, particularly in the framework of the SheDecides campaign. I am also pleased to note that the SheDecides movement has mobilized about $450 million in additional funds, mainly from European donors. However, this is not enough to fill the funding gap. Indeed, if we are lucky enough to live in a country that has, for years, made health, sexual and reproductive rights a priority, conservatives around the world are pursuing a fierce policy against equality between men and women, but also against sexual and reproductive rights in a broad sense, thereby denying women's right to decide. Such discrimination cannot be justified by tradition, culture or religion. They are simply unacceptable. This fight also reminds us that nothing is ever acquired, as the conservative pressures, in many countries and in international forums, are strong. These conservatisms in terms of equality, family planning or the fight against STIs undermine efforts to eradicate, for example, hunger or poverty in the world. I call on the government to make family planning not only a public health issue, but a broader development agenda. My group has always stressed the importance of women's rights in Belgian diplomatic and development efforts, as demonstrated by the resolution adopted under the previous legislature on sexual and reproductive rights or under it on early marriage. I therefore believe that this text, which I have co-signed, is important, because it once again puts this debate at the top of our Assembly's priorities. I hope that the same will be true of the government's agenda, despite the budget cuts that the development cooperation departments are facing in particular. This text by my Socialist colleague Fatma Pehlivan, whom I obviously thank, calls for a series of concrete initiatives to be taken, for example, in order to assess the gender dimension in Belgian development cooperation from a budgetary point of view, in particular. It has been adopted constructively in committee, which I would obviously like to welcome. My group will, of course, support this and will always be attentive to the coherence of Belgian policies on gender equality and rights, whether in Belgium or around the world. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u79	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in voting on this text today, the majority shows that it is not closed to the proposals of the opposition parties. On the contrary! We support them when they are relevant and useful, as is the case with this motion for a resolution, for which I thank Mrs Pehlivan. Mr President, more than relevant and useful, I would even say that this proposal is of paramount importance. Today is one week after 8 March, International Women's Day. I regret, moreover, that it is not officially named "International Women's Rights Day", as I have had the opportunity to stress on several occasions. On this occasion, we were able to hear many testimonies from around the world, many stories showing, if need be, that the situation is far from being resolved in terms of gender equality and women's empowerment. Gender equality is a fundamental right. It is also the best way to address the global and urgent challenges we face, whether in climate, economic, sustainable development, security and many others. The 2030 Agenda, to which all Member States of the United Nations have committed themselves through its 17 sustainable development goals, is a road map that leaves no one behind. Each of the seventeen points is imbued with the will and necessity of absolute gender equality. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no sustainable development without this equality. Indeed, inequalities affect each dimension. Women are over-represented in the poorest categories: 330 million of them, I repeat, live on less than $1.9 a day. In two thirds of countries, women are more likely to suffer from food insecurity than men. Through the sexual violence to which they are cruelly subjected, they are subjected, as in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, to cruel and inhuman treatment and stigmatization throughout their lives. Around the world, fifteen million girls, I recall this figure, cannot learn to read or write. In the event of a climate change disaster, for example, women are fourteen times more likely to die than men. Unfortunately, these are just a few examples. It is therefore only through equality between men and women, between girls and boys, that we can ensure justice and inclusion only by guaranteeing the rights of women and girls, that we can preserve our environment and that we can develop economies that benefit everyone. Minister, if we want to move from promises to actions, we really need to move ahead. We can no longer content ourselves with beautiful words. We must address in-depth inequalities and discrimination. There is a need to invest in effective public policies in this area. To do this, we need serious and sufficient data to assess their effectiveness. That is why we are defending this text and will vote enthusiastically. I repeat, this is a crucial issue for our future. We can therefore only share the demands made by Mrs Pehlivan's text to the government, of which I know he takes this cause to heart. We need data to assess the gender dimension in Belgian development cooperation in a transparent way. Encouraging our partners to do the same is therefore essential. Integrating this data into all future projects and programmes is, of course, also important. It is imperative to avoid any questioning of the 2030 agenda and of each of its objectives. Mr President, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are problems which, by their importance, go far beyond the division of majority/opposition. Today we are facing one of them. That is why I call on everyone to support this text, thereby demonstrating the importance of this subject to all of us. That is why I am sure that this motion for a resolution will be adopted by a large majority – unanimously, I hope – by our House!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u80	Mr President, Minister, the adoption of so many resolutions on gender inequality means that there is still a problem. Gender inequality is mainly the result of political, but also social choices. This also means that its approach is and remains a political responsibility. On behalf of my group, I hope that this resolution, which was adopted in committee across the borders of majority and opposition, will actually be translated into policy. Minister, I know that you are particularly sensitive to the balance between men and women, so I am confident that this will continue to work. Example of this remains the campaign SheDecides. In particular, two points in the resolution may call for additional policies. Firstly, data can only be collected and analysed to the extent that there is sufficient knowledge and capacity. That is why it is important that policy is mindful of and invests in sufficient statistical services. This doesn't just apply to our country. I know that the gender service has been manned by two people for the last 20 years and that none have been added, although tasks are constantly increasing. This also applies to statistical capacity in partner countries. Without statistical knowledge, the risk of certain groups and their needs remaining invisible in the statistics remains high. That is why, and that is my second point, budgetary resources are also needed to invest in gender equality in developing countries. One of the questions in the resolution concerns the budgetary mapping of the gender dimension of Belgian development cooperation. This has the advantage that Parliament can see whether sufficient resources are allocated to gender policy and whether these resources are used efficiently. Finally, it also provides the opportunity to check whether the SDG 5, the sustainable development objective 5, on women and empowerment, is being complied with. Minister, you can count on our support to map and increase these budgetary resources. Therefore, it remains important to provide for specific and sufficient funding for gender equality because women, especially in developing countries, are the driving force for change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u81	Mr President, I should like briefly to express my support for this resolution. I believe that most of the elements have been mentioned. I have a few more points of interest. As most speakers have said, gender equality is one of the priorities in Belgian development policy. In all OECD-DAC analyses, Belgium scores relatively well. About 60% of the programmes and interventions we do have a gender dimension, and that percentage is much higher than the European average. I fully agree that we need to look for more data, that we need to better support our interventions and that we need better gender-based and differentiated data to measure the impact of our interventions. We are absolutely prepared to make additional efforts to better differentiate the data. Gender budgeting is also mentioned in the resolution. The DGD will organise a training on this subject this year. I am particularly pleased that this resolution, initiated by Mrs Pehlivan, can be adopted unanimously by Parliament. Thank you for the wonderful work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u82	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u84	Mr President, I refer to my written report. I will then speak on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u85	Mr President, I will be brief because the debate has been held extensively in committee. There was already a lot to do in the press, again today, but in that I sense a somewhat wrong reading of what the design means. I have already said it in committee and wish to repeat clearly here that neither this government nor my party is calling into question the necessary care for every citizen in this country, whether illegally or not. Nor is it the case in this draft. This is not about damaging the necessary care. I say this very clearly to the doctors who, apparently, sometimes give a different reading in the press. However, this draft is about a clear allocation of those responsible and what is involved in the debate on urgent medical care. This means that it is made clear once again what the OMCW should do and what the doctor should do in this procedure. Moreover, this design also provides more time for the OCMW's, at their request, so that this can be done thoroughly. However, there is no denying that here too, as with most legislation, some abuses have crept in. That is why it is certainly advisable to have control over this too, which was not or much less the case in the past. That is the only thing the draft proposes, and it is very emotional about it, while there are a lot of these controls in the health care sector. So I do not understand why this is so sensitive. It also seems to me to be wrong that the doctors should feel that they should no longer be able to express certain concerns or that this assessment is so difficult to make. Every doctor knows very well what is necessary care and what is not. As chairman of the OCMW, I have already seen requests in my OCMW that were clearly on the wrong side of the divorce. We are still in favour of this draft, but we ask the Cabinet, as agreed in the committee and promised, to take the input of the medical associations absolutely with it in the elaboration of the Royal Decree, which will clearly explain the concept of urgent medical assistance. It is those who can deepen this definition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u86	Mr. Speaker, the government is represented, but I regret that the appropriate minister is not present because this is a bill. Minister, reforming the 1965 CPAS Relief Act – what is known as the AMU Act – is undoubtedly a necessity. This aid is currently the subject of a very heavy procedure and, as Médecins du Monde has always said, is a real journey marked by trials for people who are in irregular residence and who do not have direct access to care. So we could have expected a lot from this bill. Unfortunately, apart from some small technical improvement, the core of the project is likely to further complicate the situation of these already extremely fragile people by making access to urgent medical aid even more difficult. Firstly, the text before us is extremely incomplete, referring only to future implementing orders of which we have obviously not had the slightest detail on the content. This is a lack of transparency that has raised concerns from the outset, concerns that Mr.Ducarme has supported almost instantly. Mr Ducrame, this text was first and foremost an opportunity for you to speak in the press about how many abuses of emergency medical aid were taking place. The media comments in this context have enabled us to understand the real scope of the project. The speech that was held struck my group. Once again, I would say, because it is recurrent within this government to want and again to make the foreigners and the most deprived of our society as profitors of our system. Mr. Ducrame dared to say: "Stop comfort care such as cosmetic surgery or pregnancy ultrasounds not necessary for illegal residents". How did the minister dare to speak falsely like this? How could he make our population believe that people in an illegal situation in our territory could benefit from certain services free of charge when citizens in a regular stay are not entitled to them? How dare you think that a refugee fleeing the war would come to us to re-do his nose or have his breast implants laid? To these questions, Minister Ducrame answered by leaving his hat what he called a "report": report of the CAAMI medical consultant. Without wishing to denigrate the work done, the author defines it himself as a "short analysis". In our view, this is above all an emphasis on personal considerations. I think that other scientific bodies could have had a more global, more scientific view of what constitutes urgent medical aid. In its 2015 study, KCE estimated that in 2013, 10 to 20% of illegal residents had used the AMU. KCE also felt that there was no objective evidence of abuse of health services by illegal residents. Mr. Ducrame's speech therefore struck us. He also hit the numerous associations on the ground, which the minister did not take the time to receive and which nevertheless accompanied these vulnerable people on a daily basis in their efforts to obtain the medical aid they need. I am thinking, for example, of Medimmigrant, Médecins du Monde or ICRÉ. The speech hit us, hit the field associations, but also hit the Order of Physicians. According to him, "medical care provided to foreigners residing illegally in Belgium cannot be limited to immediate and urgent care of a vital nature, but must include all the care necessary for a life in conformity with human dignity". We therefore felt it necessary to be able to hear their voices in our committee work. That is a categorical refusal on your part, Mr. Minister, supported by the majority as a whole. In our view, this is an incomprehensible attitude. It is true that in our discussions we felt a willingness on your part, Minister, to soften the speech a little bit, probably driven by a fringe of your majority who also seems to have difficulty living with the defended position. You said that urgent medical aid would not be restricted and that if the budget were to continue to increase, it would increase; and that as a democrat, it could not be otherwise. You said it. Yet, Minister, the explanatory memorandum in your text says something else. It indicates your willingness to set up a system with medical consultants who will check if you are still in the field of emergency medical assistance. If we're there, and so, if we're not there. In this connection, you have mentioned the necessary, essential and essential care and considered it useful to establish a "jurisprudence" in this matter, as you have named it. There is therefore no doubt for our group as well as for the actors on the ground that this will inevitably, in the long run, lead to a restriction of urgent medical aid. But, minister, is there really a cure if it is not necessary? In what is covered by compulsory insurance, what health care is in your opinion unnecessary, preventable, accessories? Is there a distinction, in your opinion, in this context, whether one is a Belgian resident, a beneficiary of compulsory insurance or not, such as homeless or undocumented foreigners? Is there a gradation in how to view human beings and their health? For our group, the right to health care is a fundamental right. It is not possible to exclude part of the population solely because of its administrative situation of residence, as ICRÉ had said, that they, but also the general population, face serious public health risks. In addition, today you are also planning sanctions against caregivers and CPAS who would wrongly grant this assistance. We, like the field players, fear that in the future they will become more resistant to receiving patients without access to care. For our group, the current problem of urgent medical assistance is the burdensome nature of the investigations, the length of the procedure and the difficulties faced by those in need to have access to it. The successive studies carried out in this context have never said anything else. And today, you're not trying to fix that. With the project that you are presenting to us today, you are clearly burdening procedures and making access to urgent medical aid even more complex and, above all, try to restrict it at all costs. For all these reasons, we will not support your project. I will end by telling you that we know that tomorrow we will have to adopt a series of implementing orders. It is therefore still to be hoped that you will consult the sector and that, finally, you will listen to all the parties involved, especially those who have tried to make their voices heard, in vain so far. But we also know what this government means by "concertation" and we know what that means in the mouths of ministers. We therefore also have concerns in this regard. So that you do not accuse us of having the intention of making a bad trial, I see only one possibility: come and present your arrests after consulting! In conclusion, I will quote Gandhi: "The greatness of a nation can be judged by the way in which animals are treated there". I want to paraphrase it by saying that the degree of civilization of a society is also measured, minister, in the way it treats the weakest, including people without fixed homes or papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u87	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the preamble, I would like to reiterate my commitment and that of my group to the concept of urgent medical aid and, in general, emergency aid. Every person who is temporarily or temporarily resident in our territory and who is sometimes in an illegal situation has the right to have access to emergency aid, emergency medical aid. It is about the dignity of the person. It is our responsibility as agents. It is a right guaranteed by our Constitution, European law and international law. As the minister in committee pointed out, the number of recipients of emergency aid continues to increase year by year in view of the current migration situation in Europe and our country. This shows that our country has never fled its responsibilities and will continue to do so. However, field practice has highlighted some technical shortcomings and problems, on the one hand, and situations of abuse – although marginal – on the other. The proposed reform therefore aims only to ensure the sustainability of the emergency medical aid system in the primary interest of the beneficiaries themselves and to make it more efficient for stakeholders such as CPAS and practitioners. First, the bill intends to define in a more comprehensive and precise manner not only the role of each stakeholder (CPAS, Auxiliary Fund, Caregivers, State) but also the scope of the aid. Secondly, on the basis of an analysis carried out in 2016 by the medical consultant of the Auxiliary Fund, it appears that 6% of the cases that may have been analysed can be considered an abuse. It is little, but it is enough to be able to reallocate these diverted means to other people who experience the urgent and vital need for them. This is why the Government intends to strengthen the control capacity of the Auxiliary Fund, a fully competent body, in place of this role assigned to CPAS. This means that the missions of the Auxiliary Fund are expanded and strengthened, that the function of medical consultant is created within the Auxiliary Fund, that action is taken in the event of administrative default or unduly paid amounts, and that the analysis of the files – which is fundamental – will continue on a case-by-case basis. Thirdly, this text responds to the criticisms raised by stakeholders on the ground in terms of administrative complexity. Thus, the rule of territorial jurisdiction is extended, as well as the extension from 45 to 60 days of the period prior to the CPAS decision. These shortcomings should be addressed by the sector, which has been widely consulted. This text has been the subject of dialogue with stakeholders and is the result of a reform intended by the actors on the ground. It was approved last summer, without any criticism, while today, given the context, some have found it appropriate to combine everything and scare the public. The aim of this text is to strengthen and improve urgent medical aid and not to make it more restrictive. In his spirit of effective openness, the minister, responding to the Health Committee, undertook to consult with the official actors on the ground in the drafting of the royal decrees, which will enable the monitoring procedure to be defined. We congratulate him and thank him for that. He made a public commitment to this, as was requested by the committee. In this context, our group will support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u88	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is above all a framework that will be clarified and filled in later on at KB. The draft law clearly contains noble objectives that we can support: administrative simplification, improved control and prevention of abuse. No one can argue with that. Or is it? Despite these noble objectives, this draft law has raised concerns, both among doctors and civil society organisations working for people without papers. The open letter in the papers today is proof of that. We at CD&V also tried to convey and express these concerns at the first and second reading of the draft in committee. At the time, you also understood these concerns. We then called for broad consultation, with participation. My fellow Members have referred to it. We think you can take away so much concern. I would therefore ask you once again to reiterate your clear commitment, Minister, to engage in a very wide-ranging consultation with the stakeholders who will be working on this draft law in the preparation of the KBs. I'm sure I can see you nodding. Minister, it is clear from the draft law that you are responsible for the OMCWs rather than for public health and doctors. For the OCMWs there are several good elements in the draft law. Their role is also clear. It is positive that the examination period for OCMWs is extended from 45 to 60 days and that one OCMW remains competent. You also provide for a clear role determination and the possibility of imposing a sanction on OMCWs when they conduct their investigations carelessly. Those are good elements that excel in clarity. It is mainly the doctors and civil society organisations who are missing out. There are several concerns there, but I believe that it is and will continue to be possible to remove those concerns through the various KBs that you will work out. You also brought that reassuring message to the committee. First of all, it concerns the legal uncertainty that exists today among healthcare providers as a result of the draft law. There is great concern among doctors and civil society about the introduction of this financial sanction and non-payment to doctors when they have provided non-urgent medical care. It should not be the intention that a financial risk should be borne by carers and this on the hood of undocumented people. These people are already vulnerable and find difficult access to medical care. We must not double punish them. I fully share the concerns of the doctors in this area. They should be able to take care of people who are ill and not with a financial sanction potentially hanging over their heads. The KB must provide a solution to this, Minister. You have committed yourself to this. Secondly, the Royal Decree must also clarify the definition of "urgent medical assistance." The investigation that led to this draft law identified abuses in 11 of the 200 cases. Abuse of urgent medical care is, of course, inadmissible. Personally, I am not in favour of allowing circumcisions or determining sex by ultrasound. The control doctor examined whether the assistance was urgent, but the 1996 Royal Decree states that urgent medical attention relates to all medical, preventive and curative concerns. So it is not just about the most urgent concern. If doctors may be financially sanctioned afterwards, can we please ensure that there is a proper definition? I urge you to make this clear to the Auxiliaries, the doctors and civil society. For us it is about necessary, curative and preventive care. I am thinking, for example, of a blood sample. This is not always urgent, but often necessary to detect certain diseases. Thirdly, there is concern about communication through your cabinet. In the Dutch press in particular, your cabinet has stated that this measure should deliberately have a deterrent effect on healthcare providers. This is absolutely impossible for us. I understand you can't do this either. People without papers are already having enough difficulty accessing medical care. Trying to deter or deter the treating doctor from providing care to these people can and should not be allowed. In particular, we pay tribute to the many doctors who work for vulnerable people on a voluntary and carefree basis, as this aspect has not been sufficiently highlighted in the present draft law. Fourthly, a concern which also exists and which we must overcome with the royal decision is the lack of support from the doctors. You had consulted organizations in the sector. You'd also heard the Order of Doctors. You explained that they supported the bill. However, in its press release and its reservations on its website, it explicitly requests that a prior check and no subsequent check by the Auxiliaries be made possible. Other medical organizations have also broken down, such as Domus Medica, the BVAS and the Cartel. They're all very concerned. It would therefore be good if you would invite them to your cabinet to discuss with them the way in which the royal decree will be implemented. Minister, I am sure that you will do so and will take it to heart. That is why we approve the draft law, albeit with a recommendation and a condition. Our recommendation is that you take the request of the Order to heart and develop a prior check, in which the caregivers can contact the Auxiliaries' medical examiner in advance in order to ensure that the concerns they wish to provide are urgent medical attention. You said at first reading that you wanted to consider it, which is a very good thing. We therefore strongly recommend that this be done. We have repeated our condition a few times. That is that you will respect your commitment to organise a very wide consultation and therefore allow some participation. After all, there is concern today, which we cannot deny. Give them a say and explain with them in the Royal Decree and reassure them that urgent medical care for the most vulnerable, such as people without papers, remains possible. We shall continue to follow it closely. We hope that good royal decisions will come out of the bus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u89	Mr President, Minister, urgent medical assistance for people without papers is what you are doing. Suspecting urgent medical care, that is also what you are doing with this amendment of the law. For vulnerable people, who are often, even if necessary, not finding the way to help, you are now setting an additional threshold. Because of so-called abuses, you leave the people most in need of this in the cold. Let us be clear, Minister, if there are abuses, they must be dealt with, and we fully agree with that. But it concerns twelve unregulatory cases on 200 files examined and a large number of them are then very debatable. Because urgent medical attention is not limited to urgent concerns. This is clearly based on a misdefinition. In these figures, therefore, there are cases that have been described as abuse without foundation. Seems to me this shooting with a cannon on a mosquito. You can't be serious about this, can you? It's not just about the abuse, you say, you think it's too expensive. This represents 0.2 percent of the total cost for health care. That's the second mosquito. Besides, this bill means a lot more overhead costs. I wonder if you're serious about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u90	Good morning, Mrs. Jiroflée. I'm sorry to interrupt, but I can't let you say what's not true. I never claimed that the system was too expensive. Jamais. Never.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u91	Okay, but at least we understood that in committee. In addition, not only the patient is endorsed here, but also the treating doctor. The doctor is apparently not in a position in the present design to decide for himself whether or not a dispensation is necessary. I wonder again, Minister, if you are serious about that. Doctors will be financially punished in future, if they do not act as the auditors see it. We have also recommended the criteria that will be used by the auditors, because they will be included in a still to be published KB. The doctor who treats a person without a document will therefore no longer know in advance whether he will be reimbursed for this. Again, Minister, is that really serious? This financial sanction will only ensure that some care providers will hesitate. Speaking of raising a threshold. Mr De Coninck and I have repeatedly asked you in committee to hear the organisations involved and the OCMW's, but you declined to do so. I am therefore surprised that I read in the newspaper today that you have seen organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u92	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u93	I also say what I read, and it says that your spokesperson said that you have seen organisations. I wonder why these organisations are asking us and other groups to be heard. I've asked you several times if you're serious. I will give you the answer: this is not serious. For my group, anyone who needs medical help must also receive that help, without thresholds. We clearly do not agree on that, Minister. What the government is doing here is scandalous: you are trying to save a little bit of money on the back of the weakest people, to show how severe and punishing you are. That is scandalous and populist and, as far as we are concerned, a liberal unworthy. You disappoint us very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u94	Mr. Speaker, Minister, we will vote against this bill. However, the point that we are most concerned about is not in the text. We even appreciate some progress in favour of public social action centres (CPAS), such as the extension of the time limit for social investigation or the abolition of fines. But we share the concern of the actors on the ground, who have clearly expressed their mistrust of the implementation of the control reform. The federations of CPAS, Médecins du Monde, ASBL Coordination and Initiatives for Refugees and Foreigners (ICRÉ), the Belgian Groupement des Omnipratistiques (GBO), are all wary of the upcoming royal decree, which must specify the tasks of the medical examiner, whose function you create within the Auxiliary Fund for Sickness and Disability Insurance (CAAMI). The fact that the majority refused the hearing of these actors at committee meetings reinforces us in the idea that there is a real problem, hidden in the shadow of this text. We believe that they are right to be wary. Your government's migration policy is gradually shaping a society that lives in permanent tension, including with regard to fundamental rights and human dignity. When the president of your partner N-VA says that we should choose between social security, on the one hand, and migration and acceptance of illegals, on the other, he creates tension by manipulating public opinion. The only social protection to which illegals are entitled is emergency medical aid (AMU), and still under certain conditions. You have to believe that this is still far too generous in the eyes of some people! To restrict urgent medical aid, without too much harm to public opinion, it is necessary to prepare the ground. This is what your predecessor did, by broadcasting, as early as July last, a press release entitled "Solidarity in the event of an emergency, yes, health care 'à la carte', no". To justify this shocking formula and the announcement of the reform of the AMU, he mentioned an increase in the cost of emergency medical assistance, which is correct. According to the Federal Centre of Expertise (KCE), which studied the evolution of costs from 2006 to 2013, the increase in the average cost of the AMU, per beneficiary, is mainly due to a sharp increase in hospital costs, which we do not find for the population covered by the sickness and disability insurance. It would have been relevant to consider this difference found by several experts, instead of going so far as to mention a medical tourism. In this regard, KCE experts concluded that there was no reliable data to support this concern. Indeed, I imagine that the vast majority of illegals have other priorities than obtaining aesthetic care. Urgent medical assistance accounts for only 0.25 per cent of health care expenditure. According to Médecins du Monde, 90% of undocumented people never use AMU. If you don't care, you have recently come back to the burden by presenting your project as a way to fight against comfort care offered by complacent doctors. The priority, therefore, would not be to achieve savings, but rather to sanction lax behaviour. You have mentioned cases of circumcision and breast reduction, about which there is too little information to say that this is a systematic abuse. Your statements have outraged the medical and associative communities, who are well aware of the realities and difficulties of the field. Of course, it is important to identify and punish abuses, however marginal they may be. However, it is not only a question of punishing proven abuses, but of mediating them to show that the priority is to put order in practices deemed too lax. I would remind you that, for the experts at the KCE, the problem is not there. They proposed a 9-point reform of the AMU to "simplify and harmonise administrative procedures, as well as streamline access to health care and the information system". At the outset, I indicated that I did not dispute the presence of progress in your bill. However, we are also seeing an evolution in the interpretation of the very concept of emergency medical aid, as it is increasingly considered to be emergency care. In his meagre report of 18 November 2016, the CAAMI medical consultant announced from the outset that the medical records had been analysed by applying the following definition: "medical care to be provided promptly to avoid a medical situation at risk for a person or his or her entourage". This definition used by CAAMI is not repeated anywhere. The meagre report in question refers to the circular of 24 November 1997 by Ministers Colla and Peeters. But the latter, which specifies the Royal Decree of 2 December 1996, contains a broader definition: "AMU means aid of a strictly medical nature whose urgency is attested by a medical certificate. It may be outpatient or administered in a care facility and may be preventive or curative in nature. It is therefore exclusively up to the doctor to assess the urgency of the medical aid. "Emergency medical assistance shall also include the assistance necessary to avoid any medical situation at risk to the person or his or her entourage." CAAMI has therefore taken only the last words of the definition of the circular in a sentence that restricts its scope, which is not serious. The above elements have helped to create a climate of mistrust around your reform. You may still be able to restore confidence by working with representatives of all stakeholders in the drafting of the Royal Order that will implement this bill in the area of oversight. It will be time for the truth. We will see if, despite all your statements in the press, despite those of the president of the N-VA, despite the definition of the AMU retained by the doctor-counsel of CAAMI, you will maintain the emergency medical aid intact. But for the time being, it is our mistrust that remains intact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u95	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary there is a draft law for the vote which seeks to reform access to medical aid for people without papers. In particular, I read in this draft that it is making it even more difficult for them than it already is. The media today are full of reactions from outraged doctors and those reactions are not from the least. My group shares the concern of the ninety signatories to the open letter. In committee, we have in vain called for amendments to remove some of the points of concern which I shall now deal with. Madam and Minister, you say that the purpose of this draft law is, among other things, to specify the definition of urgent medical care, but you do not, unless Article 5 has to continue to do so. Article 5 gives a very broad delegation to the King, which completely eliminates parliamentary control. There is a risk that the urgency will be interpreted restrictively through royal decrees, although we do not know whether this will actually happen. I find it most disturbing that you are presenting this reform with administrative simplification but also motivating it from an alleged abuse. As other colleagues have said, you are going to miss it. You based yourself on a 2016 report by one medical consultant, who analysed 200 medical records and concluded that there were 12 cases of abuse. My fellow Members have already said that these 12 cases represent only 6% of the total, which we can hardly call massive abuse. Moreover, it appears that the consultant used a wrong definition to analyse those medical records. The correct definition is based on the 1996 Royal Decree. It states that, contrary to what the name says, urgent medical attention relates to all medical preventive and curative concerns. The KCE report, a thorough expert report on urgent medical attention, specifically highlighted this. It is therefore important not to confuse urgent medical aid with normal urgency, which is also popularly referred to as urgent medical assistance. Apparently, that advisor didn't go through the royal decision or the expert report and labeled concerns that weren't urgent as being neatly abused. The examples have already been quoted by my colleagues. I'm not gonna repeat them. That was why we tabled an amendment in committee to replace the word 'urgent' with 'necessary'. This was voted down in committee, but supported by CD&V. So I think this is something that we need to think about thoroughly. It is also one of the goals in your design to specify this. So I think you're gonna miss a chance here, but it can still be recorded. The conclusion is that the care provided by Belgian doctors is in line with the legal framework, but what worries me and the Doctors of the World and the signatories of the open letter is that the report of a medical consultant, who uses a wrong definition, gained much more weight in the press than a solid expert report by the KCE that used a validated methodology. Another misconception is that medical costs are too high a cost. You have indeed rejected this in committee, but it has been spread out in the media. As my colleagues have already said, it represents only 0.2 percent of the total budget. Moreover, it appears that the individual costs of people using emergency medical care are 24.5 % lower than those of an ordinary insured Belgian citizen. Mass abuse and medical tourism by the undocumented? Only 10% to 20% of those without legal residence made use of medical assistance in 2013, compared with 90% of the Belgian population. What is difficult is that you do not only follow the recommendations of the KCE, but also that you have not heard the Doctors of the World, despite their repeated question. It is absolutely important that you sit around the table with them for further steps. What the World Doctors don't understand as I do, is that a doctor's judgment to decide if anyone should get medical attention would be checked post hoc. Why? The story of the abuses is not correct, and we have all rejected it here. Looks like there's some distrust of doctors' judgment. In other words, you understand that our group will vote against. Whether it is a question of controlling abuses or actually changing the definition of urgent medical care, that is not so clear to us. There are too many indications for the second, which is why we cannot support this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u96	Mr President, if I may, I will remain at my bench because of my small mobility concerns. Minister, some aspects of your bill are a problem for us. The first element was even prior to the debate in the House. Indeed, prior to the introduction of your bill, you and your predecessor had decided to turn on the wick with shock statements. Your predecessor was talking about "medical tourism." You yourself have put forward abuses, on which you have insisted heavily in the press. You talked about abuse, but also about "comfort care", such as cosmetic surgery or unnecessary pregnancy ultrasound. Abuse of language? The Minister of Health is at your side. She may remind you that cosmetic surgery obviously does not benefit from refunds, unless it is therapeutic. In your statements, you said that people in irregular residence had abused the system by receiving reimbursements for cosmetic surgery. However, there is no refund for cosmetic surgery, for anyone. From language abuse in shock statements, you planted the decor before you got to the house. I will not be very long on the substance of your bill. I'll point out a few things. The first is the way in which you try, in every possible and imaginable way, to narrow the scope of intervention to what is only urgent, in the vital sense of medical intervention. But the legal framework, Minister, is not about that. The Act expressly provides that persons residing illegally, who are known to be fragile and vulnerable by definition, shall be provided with the necessary health care. It is not only people who have a heart attack that can be cared for. Urgent medical assistance is not limited to emergency care in the sense of vital care. You try by every means to narrow the field of intervention. I was interested in reading a very recent press release from your party, in which it was stated that access should be given, given the abuses, only to urgent care. So it is true, the name of the law is indeed misconceived, miswritten. But what matters is not the title of the law, it is its content. It is very clear; it is not just about urgent care, and not only about the care that would be vital. You highlight a lot the few abuses that can always occur and we obviously cannot accept them. You provided the number of twelve abuses, including cosmetic surgery. I cannot agree with you because, if it is not a therapeutic treatment, it is not reimbursed anyway. It can't have happened or it wasn't cosmetic surgery, it was therapeutic surgery. We do not hear you, however, Mr Minister, for example, about young pregnant women who do not have the opportunity to benefit from the three ultrasounds that are needed during pregnancy. We do not hear from you about this study – which I have pointed out – which shows that only 14% of people living illegally actually have access to health care, on the one hand because of a whole series of administrative burdens, but also because of problems of interpretation and sometimes too much restriction in the decisions of certain CPAS. You choose, in your bill, to introduce an additional mechanism a posteriori. You know as well as I do that when a doctor finds himself confronted with a patient, he is obliged ethically to provide him with medical or surgical assistance - no matter what. It must do so, and I hope it will continue to do so. Introducing an a posteriori mechanism is a danger, since there is a major risk of shrinking and decreasing access to care more and more. It is always easy, from a medical point of view, to repeat the diagnoses a posteriori! But when the patient arrives, I already told you in committee, he doesn't come with a diagnosis written on his forehead. He comes with symptoms. He comes with a difficult medical situation. Your ex post check will obviously be easy since we will already have the diagnosis, but the risk for the doctor is that he will always ask himself: "If I do this for the hospital, a posteriori, they will interpret things differently". This may at that time, since you are introducing sanctions in addition to sanctions, move towards more and more restrictive access. Many actors in the field have reacted: associations, caregivers, doctors, and the Order of Physicians. On a subject such as this one, it does not happen so often that the Order of Physicians recalls its position. The least we can say, minister, is that you were so far all but listening when it was necessary to be, first and foremost, ahead of this bill. This consultation, that respect for the actors on the ground, that respect for the care actors, despite their constructive proposals, you have paid no attention to it. I also find that the proposal coming from the field actors, especially doctors, when it was still time, not from a posterori mechanism but to stay – even with a doctor via CAAMI, etc. – in an a priori approach, was a very interesting and very constructive proposal that I continue to support. You swept it away with a back of your hand. I'm sorry. I believe that in this respect you have shown that you were absolutely not open to dialogue and above all that you wanted to move forward in this text not by being fair, that is, by saying no to abuses when there are, but by paying particular attention to issues of dignity and questions of medical or surgical care and intervention with particularly fragile and vulnerable patients. That's what should have been your guide, but it wasn't. There is still a long way to go, since there is the law but also the royal decrees. I insist that you take the trouble of moving forward, listening and co-building these royal decrees with the actors on the ground. The first damage to this non-listening will have already been done, at least on this post-clearance check at the level of the bill. It is a pity that you did not follow this constructive proposal of the caregivers. With regard to royal arrests, lines can still move. I hope, minister, that your attitude will be quite different. But given the concerns about this bill and the total lack of information about how you will model it in royal orders, we will not support this bill. Minister, I invite you to change your attitude in the coming weeks as part of the royal decrees. In any case, this is a missed opportunity, at the level of the bill, to do things in a way that is respectful, positive, constructive and with a single objective: no abuse but above all a minimum of dignity and the necessary health interventions for these people by definition fragile and vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u97	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is clear. It is to make it seem that all these people, who are already having enormous difficulties, who have fled their country and who are very precarious, benefit from our social security. We are really in an ideological framework, in a desire to polarize the population. That's the point. The president of the N-VA makes this clear, but it is regrettable to see the MR playing in there. It is trying to make people, who already receive too little social security, believe that there is a lot of abuse. The purpose of the political manoeuvre is quite clear. Many people feel the consequences of austerity applied to social security and have frustrations. There is therefore a political attempt to channel this anger towards other categories of the population who are obviously not responsible for this hole in social security. That is one reason why the PTB will not be able to support this bill. The minister wanted to give the impression in the press that abuse was daily bread, with a lot of stories more stuffed one than the other. However, a very clear report from the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE) states that the sums in question amounted to €362,000 over two years – just enough to pay certain parliamentary salaries, including that of the Speaker of the House, over the same period. Stop pointing out all these abuses that are not! This amount corresponds to 0.33% of emergency medical assistance during these two years. We can therefore ask ourselves serious questions as to whether the control imposed here is proportional to these figures. We don't think so. That is why 100 doctors wrote this morning in an open letter in De Morgen that there is no mass abuse at all. Moreover, according to the doctors, the famous report by the rapporteur of the RIZIV is based on a misdefinition of urgent medical care. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is often difficult to obtain the necessary medical interventions. We have gathered a lot of evidence in this regard. Only 10 to 20% of undocumented people have the opportunity to find this help, even if it is necessary. As the Netwerk tegen Armoede, ICRÉ and Médecins du Monde clearly demonstrate, the right to urgent medical care is already often unjustly denied to illegal residents. The mountain of complicated procedures and controls explain this lack of access to medical care. We're wasting a lot of time and money preventing doctors from helping people. Thus, the 2015 KCE report was not applied. Had it been, however, a huge simplification would have resulted. Many medical associations have attacked the bill: the Belgian Group of Omnipraticians, the Belgian Association of Medical Trade Unions, the Order of Physicians, Domus Medica and the Dutch-speaking doctors' unions. As they have so well indicated, providing medical assistance to any person in need is a duty of each physician. There should be no differences between patients. Through this bill, the government intends to intervene in this mission and even – in certain circumstances – prevent it, because it is purely inspired by a logic of savings. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who is not deliberately blind sees that the whole sector disagrees with this bill. However, the majority has once again decided not to listen to the real experts because the question of hearings has voted them away. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, simplification and improvement of the administrative provisions on the use and use of emergency medical aid were indeed long overdue. In its report on this subject, the KCE had also suggested changes and simplifications. These measures are therefore positive, Minister. In fact, we supported them in committee. Unfortunately, we cannot "weigh" your bill on the basis that it contains positive clauses, others that cannot be supported and, finally, abstain after balancing. Indeed, what's wrong is really wrong. And since this is really not going to happen, we cannot support, even through an abstention, the content of certain provisions. I cannot help but recall the way in which you introduced this project. Indeed, you wanted to present it as a race for terrible abuses. The comfort care offered to illegals, it's over! There are abuses. Religious circumcision is one of them. It'll be over! As a result, you have cast a form of discredit on this population which needs care and which has appeared to benefit from a system to the detriment of Belgian citizens. We have been angry with you and, as far as I am concerned, I am still mad at you for introducing your bill in this way. During your committee interventions, you corrected the shot and said that your goal was, in fact, to encourage the urgent medical assistance of this population because you want it to be healthy and have real access to care. But you still kept talking about abuse. To illustrate these abuses, you have shown us a report from medical consultants, from MediPrima's CAAMI, etc. I have to tell you, I still can't believe it. It is not possible that doctors who have scientific training, who have a professional conscience, who are required to take into consideration a population, the care requested, the care provided, the analysis of this care, the dialogue with doctors, hospitals, and then draw conclusions, can transmit a report of four pages, drawn up with the data as presented. Either his report has been planed and you have shown us a summary in 3 or 4 pages, or there is really something that I cannot understand from a doctor-counsel in the writing of this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u99	Ma'am, a little correction! The report has been communicated to you in its entirety. Do not try to induce in this debate that we would have sabotaged his report, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u100	So it's even worse than I thought! I have no concern for you to present us with the synthesis of a report. It just has to be assumed that it is. But if a report makes three pages written in this way, that is not the case. I'm not sure someone in CAAMI is taking care of this kind of thing. It's an impression I'm giving you. This is in any case an appreciation, beyond the impression. If I were a minister, I would not accept a report drafted and submitted in this way. I'd ask for more. It appears from this report that it meets your assumption that there are abuses. If there is abuse, the examples given in this report do not provide a sufficient basis for demonstrating this. That's bullshit! There is a plastic surgery and ultrasound involved, and five or six other acts that are considered not to be care that can fall into the category. Frankly, that's not what can allow you to talk about abuse. I'll come back to another category of care later, because it's of a different nature. Mr.Minister, you are using this principle to amend your bill, while saying that you want people to make more use of care to make them healthier and trust them. In doing so, you are putting in place a system that can contain positive provisions, such as registration of the service via MediPrima, which will also simplify procedures for people, who will have access to procedures and care. At the same time, and you have not given me any reassuring response, using a registration system such as this one, there will be the possibility not only to identify the care provided but also to identify the people and even to geolocation them via an address or place where they will be located. Given the type of population and your willingness to "increase confidence and encourage the use of care" as you say, I have doubts because these people are in illegal residence, that in the discussions about your project, there is a question of home visits and also because of the positioning of your government to expel people who are illegally staying in our country. How can we ensure sufficient confidence to seek treatment when there is a risk of identification and localization? To that, you didn't answer me. You told me that access to personal and medical data will be preserved (secret of the medical file), but my inquiry is not part of that register. I would really like to receive some clarification from you as to whether I should continue to be concerned or whether I can be reassured about what might happen. Finally, with regard to the ex post evaluation of CAAMI's consulting physician, I agree with the criticisms made by the colleagues before me, because the ex post evaluation will necessarily be subjective. A doctor who faces a person with symptoms, illness, anxieties, etc. is obliged to provide and provide such care as it deems necessary. He could not ask what care he could or could not give, or be placed in a situation where he would have to take a stand, in order not to be punished because that care might not be sufficiently vital, important or urgent. It is impossible for a doctor, faced with a patient, to position himself in this way. This is impossible because it is contrary to the ethics and mission that physicians and caregivers have subscribed to. Minister, either you assume to the end and you affirm your will to limit these people's access to this care (vital care, emergency care that you will need to define in this case) or you withdraw your provisions that may suggest that certain care will be considered to be care to which the person is not entitled. I have tabled an amendment, already in committee. We have reintroduced him, my colleague Anne Dedry and I, in plenary session. It was intended to change the name "emergency medical aid" (AMU) and replace it with "necessary medical aid", in order to verify the intention of the aid, to stick to reality and to remove this confusion, due to the adjective "urgent". This request was refused at the committee meeting. You explained that you wanted to develop case law, which would determine which care is acceptable or not. In other words, you add a layer of insecurity to the insecurity that your text already contains. If your goal is not to eliminate care, then you must accept this terminological change: "Medical aid necessary" instead of "urgent". Otherwise, you have to assume what you're not saying but what you're doing. I would like to take advantage of the presence of Mrs De Block, Minister of Health, to raise a problem. I asked the minister at a committee meeting about a category of care, pointed out by the physician-counsel who produced this famous report of non-medical circumcision, which he considered to be abuse. However, a member of the committee asked the minister about reimbursements for non-medical circumcision care. The minister announced, and I share her position, that it was important to be able to repay these interventions, even if they were not medically necessary. Indeed, these must be carried out in all conditions of safety, hygiene and health in order to avoid infections and negative consequences. We can therefore deduce that, for all persons on Belgian territory, there is a refund of this act. If that is the case, we cannot consider it to be abuse in the specific case of those persons who are in irregular residence. Either you really want to remove them, and you say it clearly, or you consider that these cares are valid for everyone – so also for those people – and you stop quoting them in the list of abusive benefits. I would like you and the Minister of Health to give a clear answer on this. The royal decrees that must be taken should have been explained in committee so that we understand your intentions and stop asking you these questions, to which we still have no answers. You said you were going to deepen and finalize the texts with the actors on the ground. We have not had the opportunity to hear these actors in committee, but they have fed us widely, from CPAS to doctors, healthcare providers and associations working with people living illegally. I hope that you will work with them and that, in doing so, you will agree to use, to value the arguments they will explain to you. I hope that possibly you will come back to us by proposing changes that will improve your text, if the intention is to allow the best possible access for these people in situations of excessive fragility. As you will understand, we will have to vote against this proposal, given the content and criticism that my colleague Anne Dedry and I have just made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u101	Thank you, Mr President. As I said in committee, the government is fundamentally committed to urgent medical attention. We do not question the definition of urgent medical attention. We do not question the definition of urgent medical assistance. As the issue has been touched upon by some, I would like to return to some key budgetary aspects. I have heard that this government would not pursue a dignified or generous policy in the area of emergency medical assistance. I cannot let that be said and I must, in this case, let the figures speak. Between 2014 and 2016, the number of recipients of emergency medical assistance increased by 8.9%. The amounts allocated increased by 27.31%, reaching EUR 57.4 million. As a result, this government is investing more and more in urgent medical assistance. Its will is therefore not to reduce its contribution if the needs of this vulnerable category are to continue to grow. Of course, we must ensure – it is not only a legal but also a moral commitment – that this fragile group can access care. That's our will. I will allow myself to go back to some of the points in the bill that brought us together. We have already had lengthy debates, Mr President. Two readings in committee were organised, several fruitful exchanges took place, while others were harder. In any case, what this project carries in terms of administrative simplification – which is in line with the recommendations of the KCE and the MediPrima reform, to the benefit of practitioners and beneficiaries of the AMU – was able to gather us at the time of the vote of several articles. I am thinking in particular of this measure, which increases from 45 days to 60 days the period before the decision to take charge of the CPAS in the context of emergency medical aid. This gives the CPAS more time to carry out the social survey, so that it can take place under better conditions. It was a request from the CPAS Federation. I am also thinking of another important measure, which relates to continuity of care. In the existing system, in a number of cases, care must be discontinued depending on the possible change in the recipient's reference address. We are taking steps to ensure continuity of care for the beneficiary of the AMU. It is clear that the bill also clarifies the role of the various stakeholders in the AMU, whether the state, CPAS, health care providers or CAAMI. I have heard the arguments on other aspects. To some, I can't subscribe. Colleagues refer to the KCE report. This study is fundamental in the device. The SPP Social Integration was associated with this survey, in which CAAMI actively participated. I heard Mr. Hedebouw; he doesn't seem to be familiar with this file. Many of the study's recommendations have been implemented. Anyone who has worked on this file or on this issue knows that. As an example, I will take one of the measures aimed at separating the social component for the CPAS and the medical component for the CAAMI. I would like to point out a point that seems to be missing from a number of Members who take up some of the points in the KCE report that fix them and not others that do not fix them. I would point out that we are following one of the KCE's key recommendations in this project, namely that the control device should be entrusted to a CAAMI medical examiner. I would draw the attention of the opposition parliamentarians to the fact that it is not always necessary to subtly sort out the recommendations that arrange them and those that disturb them! If we put in place a doctor-control within CAAMI, it is by following the recommendation of the KCE report. It is important to indicate this. I will return to a fundamental point. Do we need a check, after all? In such a system, should controls be removed? I think in any system, we need control. This control already existed and was operated at the start of the CPAS. Controls were carried out on multi-level care, in different ways depending on whether one was in a CPAS or another. For some CPAS, doctors operated the control and for others, administrative officers operated the control. With the system we are putting in place, as far as general practitioners and hospitals are concerned, it will no longer be an administrative – whose profession is not in the field of health care – that will operate the control. Now a doctor will talk to a doctor! I think it's progress. Some members of the opposition have expressed this in the course of the debates we have had in committee. We need a check. These will not be controls operated by administrative or variable geometry by CPAS. No, there will be a type of screening at CAAMI level with a doctor who will talk to another doctor. When I say "talk," it's intended. I indicated it in committee. I also hope that, in the context of the contact between this doctor-controller and the general practitioner or hospital doctor, we can articulate a dialogue and not just a strict control. With the establishment of the royal decrees, that's the way I want to go. I've already repeated it. I hear a number of criticisms of the CAAMI physician-controller's report. I'm not a doctor-controller. I do not want to allow myself to go down in flames a report like this, as I have heard some Members do. Indeed, in this report, this doctor-controller tells us that 6% of the care is not urgent medical aid and that for 52% of the files on which he would have wished to obtain information, he could not because the legal framework related to the exchange of information between his function and the hospital doctor or general practitioner did not exist. We are therefore putting in place a legal framework that will allow this exchange of information. It's essential. Mrs Fonck, we listened! I assure you that once in two, when I listen to you, I fall naked, so much you, it seems to me, can transvestite the facts! There have, of course, been a number of consultation meetings with the CPAS federations, with the Order of Physicians, which we have seen on several occasions. Mrs Van Hoof, I repeat the commitment made in committee. These consultations are essential and will, of course, continue within the framework of the implementing measures. I undertake to organise a broad consultation in the context of the preparation of the royal decrees. We'll have the order of the messages. I'll talk to the CPAS Federation again. I have received a number of requests. They are very offensive and very hard on this project; I am thinking of Médecins du Monde, which I will also listen to in all the comments that this association has to make. My will is to make an order that is balanced and fair. Yes, we must continue to send a clear signal, Mrs. Gerkens. I really want to reassure you about that. As you know, the MediPrima reform allows for pre-registration. This allows persons eligible for urgent medical assistance to go to their CPAS in order to pre-register before they even have a medical need, so that their file is already prepared in perspective of when they will need medical care. I know that there continues to be a form of fear among these vulnerable people to go to the CPAS in order to proceed, for example, with this pre-registration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u102	We assure them that they can go there without any fear, since all the information that concerns them is confidential. They do not take any risks by doing this, to which they are entitled, Mrs Gerkens – it is important to say again. It seems to me that I have already indicated this on several occasions in committee. Mr President, I repeat that we have had very long debates in committee twice. Our will is clear. Some representatives of the opposition even mentioned it. I am thinking of Mrs De Coninck, who has experience at the local level in social policy. Yes, there are abuses. They are extremely marginal, but they exist. Would it be too unpolitically correct to relay this information, which is contained in the report of the CAAMI physician-counsel? I don't believe it. We also have a responsibility to monitor the situation, while indicating that we want urgent medical assistance for this vulnerable group to be the most widely available in terms of their health care needs. It is not incompatible to communicate this aspect in a fair manner. To conclude my speech, I repeat my desire for consultation, which remains full and complete, with regard to the establishment of these royal decrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u103	I am not going to ask Minister Ducrame for further information, but I would like to have a reply from Mrs De Block, Minister of Health, about the report of the medical consultant of the Auxiliary Fund for Sickness and Disability Insurance, which considers that circumcisions for non-medical reasons are abuses. In my speech, I made the connection with his remarks at the committee meeting. Indeed, according to her, it is interesting that INAMI reimburses these acts for reasons of security guarantee, non-infection, etc. This principle must therefore apply to any resident on Belgian soil. I would have liked to have his assessment on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u104	Mrs Gerkens, as I have had the opportunity to say on several occasions, INAMI does not differentiate between circumcisions for medical and non-medical reasons. These acts are listed under the same nomenclature. No initiative is planned to change this rule. We need to know how to proceed. Indeed, this measure concerns very young boys. What is the risk if this transaction is no longer repaid? It would be to create a new line of circumcision in kitchens and bathrooms, with all possible complications, lesions, urinary problems, etc. Indeed, Mrs. Fonck, it costs more. We agree. It could cost more but also really spoil the future of many little boys. On this side, like on all sides, I like them to be healthy. I want to avoid not only spending on social security but also all the misery that can go hand in hand. However, it is known that lesions in these areas can be very serious for boys and later for men.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u105	Madam Minister, this does not happen every day, but I think that, exceptionally, the whole of Parliament is following you on the last point. Mrs Gerkens, the last word goes to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u106	Mr President, we are all concerned that everything is going well. Minister, I fully agree with your analysis and your position. I have kept repeating it in committee, where you have brought this answer. This means that these benefits cannot be considered abuse by the nature of the benefit. Therefore, this is not yet a case law, but it will in any case be included in the House's reports for the attention of the CAAMI Medical Consultant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u107	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2890/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2890/6) The proposal of special law consists of 7 articles. The proposed special law has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u109	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) • 2 - Muriel Gerkens cs (2890/7) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u110	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u112	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u113	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is a priority of our Government. It is important to stress that this transposition of the European Directive into Belgian law reflects a fair balance between freedom of enterprise and security, which is why this transposition concentrates where problems can arise. Indeed, for the sake of proportionality, the choice was made not to extend the scope of the bill to activities and situations that do not occur in our country. In concrete terms, this bill requires prior registration of service providers to companies that are not covered by the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism and whose services could facilitate such laundering. Indeed, it is essential to deal with reliable and identified interlocutors. This bill allows us to respond to the reality of the homelessness activity used by businesses for fraudulent activities. While these are outside the scope of the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing regulations, this project tightens the conditions for obtaining residence by means of numerous dissuasive measures, which will discourage such companies from establishing themselves on Belgian soil. In addition, the text meets a wide range of concerns of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). Ladies and gentlemen, for these various reasons, my group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u114	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as in committee, we will support the draft before us in plenary. After all, we believe that constructions, such as the use of so-called 'postboxes', should be restricted. In any case, the transposition of an important European directive, aimed at money laundering or counter-terrorism financing, is a good step forward. However, Minister, we have a double feeling. It is a pity, as the Council of State considers, that the transposition of the European directive has been incomplete and not entirely correct. The directive defines five activities, of which you take over only one. You do offer the King the opportunity to change the law. On this point too, however, we are following the Council of State and also believe that the proposed provision of delegation does not provide any comfort. We cannot deny that this design is a missed opportunity. Europe gives Member States more power in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, but Belgium leaves a good opportunity here to actually do what needs to be done. Instead of focusing heavily on the problem and anticipating future, possible, actual developments, we are presented here with a light version, which gives little ambition. We note that the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is not a priority for this government and that it is acting accordingly. We also know that the full transposition of the directive would mean that additional financial measures and staff would have to be provided for. However, that is the choice we have to make. Nevertheless, we will support the current meritorious attempt, even if only to show that we are prepared to go for it in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u115	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u116	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2898/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2898/1) The draft law has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u118	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Carina Van Cauter, Luk Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u120	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u121	Mrs. Van Cauter, Mr. Van Biesen will certainly make the effort to listen to you, since he did not listen to the other speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that disputes between citizens, businesses and the tax authorities can occasionally give rise to frustration. In many cases, however, conciliation can provide relief. However, the tax mediation service does not always have sufficient legal instruments for this. That is why today we are putting forward to the entire Chamber a legislative proposal to strengthen the tax mediation service. For example, tax relief is transferred to the service and the service will play a greater role in disputes over cadastral income. In addition, he is granted powers in respect of non-fiscal claims. Colleagues, since 2007, taxpayers have been able to submit an administrative dispute with the tax authorities to the tax mediation service. This service operates autonomously, independently of the FPS Finance. This scheme was designed to respond to the increasing complexity of tax legislation, reduce the number of tax disputes in the courts and speed up the recovery of tax debts. The annual reports of that mediation service show that he is taking up his position very successfully. The tax mediation service therefore receives more requests for intervention year after year. In half of the files, his intervention is asked to resolve disputes with the FPS Finance. In the other half of the cases, the applicant asked for clarification or assistance in the search for a solution to tax problems. In no less than 65% of the cases, tax mediation led to a final dispute. Today, the tax mediation service is given even more instruments so that it can take up its role even better. Before the summer, we already had a first proposal, suspending the tax procedure for as long as the conciliation procedure is in place and able to generate the best possible tax mediation. Today we would like to add a few points. Minister, I would like to thank you in particular for the good cooperation that has been achieved in order to achieve this proposal. We are indeed strengthening the tax mediation service by granting it the so-called right of grace. This right has existed since 1831 and is granted to the Minister of Finance who has the right to waive tax fines or increases which allow taxable persons who are in a particularly precarious situation, regardless of their will, but who are in good faith, to see the debt lightened and to see the fines or increases reduced or cancelled. For example, the debt spiral is broken and a bankruptcy or a possible collective debt regime is avoided. In addition, everyone may receive payment of the principal a little longer or later, which is not insignificant. Today, the Minister gives grace after consulting his administration, but it was one of the recommendations of the Committee on Tax Fraud to grant this right to an independent body, hence the mediation service that can operate independently. The tax mediation service was not chosen unwisely, because it is indeed an autonomous service which has the necessary know-how to assess it. Moreover, by deleting a number of steps, the taxpayer has quicker clarity, which may be important. All taxpayers in the same situation will also be treated in the same way, which is another step forward. It is clear that this extension of powers includes responsibility and transparency. Anonymised copies of the decisions will therefore be sent to the Chamber of Representatives. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the future, the tax mediation service will be strengthened, as far as its conciliation mission is concerned, with dossiers relating to cadastral income. This seems to me to be a good thing for all parties. Colleagues, I decide. Taxes are imposed to be paid. In some cases, however, it cannot be ruled out that citizens or businesses, due to many unfortunate circumstances, cannot afford to pay immediately. It goes without saying, therefore, that instead of referring to expensive loans or insolvency proceedings, solutions that are acceptable to all are better sought. This may mean paying in a slightly longer period and with a little bit of help, namely a reduction or remission of increases or fines. In this way, the government is touching its money and the private or the company out of trouble. I think this is a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u123	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u124	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1521/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1521/10) The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal to extend contracts and strengthen the role of the tax mediation service." The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law to expand the tasks and strengthen the role of the tax conciliation service". The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u126	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1796: Laurette Onkelinx, Karine Lalieux, Stéphane Crusnière - 1855: Laurent Devin, Laurette Onkelinx, Karine Lalieux, Gwenaëlle Grovonius. - 1925: Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Benoît Dispa. At the request of one of the proposers, the bill No. 1925 decapitated. At the request of one of the authors, Bill No. 1925 is disjunct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u127	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I give the floor to Mrs Dumery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u128	Mr President, I am a rapporteur and I would like to make a point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u129	You are indeed rapporteur with Mr Lachaert, Mrs Dumery and Mr Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u130	Mr President, I will not clarify the political position of each of the colleagues. They will certainly do so in the context of the general discussion. I will, too. I would like to refer briefly and honour the hearings held prior to our political debate in the social affairs and finance committees as we started our work with the hearings of the representatives of the National Labour Council (CNT) and the environmental associations represented by the Bond Beer Leefmilieu. Please be aware that the NTC has provided the government with an initiative in the last few months with a draft bill on the same subject, and that the NTC's representative, Mr. De Groote, explained to us that there had been a unanimous opinion of the NTC on this mobility budget. He mentioned a number of preconditions for this: to encourage a change in behaviour towards more sustainable mobility; to guarantee workers the same level of reimbursement of travel costs as those currently applied, within the framework of budgetary neutrality; to facilitate multimodality; to encourage the promotion and development of collective public transport, the provision of private public transport and the provision of shared transport. The representative of the FEB confirmed this view, highlighting the objective to decongest traffic as much as possible and to stimulate behavioural changes, and stressing that the NTC proposal went further than that of the government. We heard the union representatives. Mr Christophe Quintard, for the FGTB, pointed out that the social partners' views on the subject were unanimous, which is quite rare. He also cited studies showing that bottling problems could almost be solved by removing 10 to 15% of cars from home-to-work traffic. Secondly, we heard the representative of Bond Beer Leefmilieu, who was more critical of the bill and the preliminary draft of the National Labour Council, considering that remuneration should be paid in euros, not in cars and diesel. And by highlighting the problems generated by company cars that are more powerful and more expensive, which are often diesel vehicles and travel a larger number of kilometres. He concluded by proposing to combine different measures. The introduction of a mobility allowance for all workers and the freezing of the number of company cars. Our committees have continued the political debate, but I wanted to highlight the hearings that have taken place and the fact that those who have been heard have mobilized quickly. We discussed this text in two readings and the official opinion of the CNT, which largely confirmed its pre-hearing, took place between the first and second readings. And I give the floor to Mrs Dumery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u131	No, I'm the one who gives him the floor! But thank you for your report. Mrs Dumery has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are several rapporteurs. I refer to the written report. This was indeed part of several committees with hearings. The honourable Member has already explained in detail what has happened in the committees. The present draft law concerns the mobility allowance. We are not talking about the mobility budget. Many colleagues cannot distinguish between mobility allowance and mobility budget. For the sake of clarity, the mobility budget is currently being discussed in the government, and I am also in happy expectation of its outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u133	Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair. What is in store is the mobility allowance, whereby we give an employee with a company car the opportunity to exchange his company car for a fee. He can freely choose what he does with this compensation. The draft law therefore has no ambition at all to replace the system of commercial vehicles, but to offer employees an alternative to their commercial vehicles. And even if there is only one car less in traffic, something has already been achieved of the ambition to reduce traffic jams. Our ambition is precisely that there are fewer cars on the road. That is the plus of this draft law, with the ecological benefits that it brings. There was a lot of discussion in the committees about whether it was a sensible system or not. If you read the bill, you will see the cascade of measures to avoid abuse, to reach the target audience and so on. What is very good is the choice that is offered. A lot of actual possibilities are taken into account, such as multiple commercial vehicles having or changing jobs. All that was calculated. The worker's freedom of choice is therefore the crucial factor in making this work. He or she knows what kind of living environment is the best option, a company car or something else. The N-VA supports this proposal and strongly supports the cash for car scheme, because the voluntary basis exists, both for the employer and for the employee; because the scheme is budget neutral for the individual employer, the employee and the government and, very importantly, because the scheme is administratively simple for the employer. I hope that this draft law will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little disappointed that the Minister for Mobility is not here. We are still talking about mobility. I asked for his presence in committee. I am Chair of the Infrastructure Committee, Mr Flahaux. I had pleaded for us to see him and hold joint meetings. When it comes to mobility, we obviously hope to have it. He talks about it all the time and he talks about it well. This is to show you, dear members of the government, how this project will not help in terms of mobility. I believe that this has just been demonstrated here. It may be a bit of taxation, it may be a bit of social, but it won't do anything about mobility, since the Minister for Mobility doesn't even bother to come and talk to us. I had questions for Mr. Bellot. I guess he won't be able to come. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this at length in committee. This bill came out of the 2016 budget adjustment negotiations. It is recalled that Mr Reynders, who is also not Minister of Mobility, had announced that all workers - at least those who have a company car, which is far from the case of all workers - would receive 450 euros of pocket pay in exchange for their company car. It was Mr Reynders' announcement in 2016. I took up his remarks. He's not here to confirm them, but that's what he said. The idea is, of course, to exchange the company car for a sum of money, which will be granted as a bonus, without social contributions, with a very advantageous tax, according to the regime of the company cars. What are all the criticisms we have heard? We only heard about criticism, except on the benches of the majority. But if not, Mr Gilkinet has just recalled, all the people we interviewed were totally critical. The first thing is that the company is not obliged to accept the employee's request. Mrs. Dumery, you talked about freedom. No, the worker has no freedom! He will not have it because if he wants to exchange his company car, the project provides that if his employer says no, it will be no. So I don't know where the worker's freedom is. That is clearly in the bill unless the ministers contradict me in a moment. He will therefore not have this freedom since he can be told that he will not be able to benefit from the mobility allowance. This amount of money is calculated according to a formula defined in the law but will never reach the value of the car. We are not talking about a sum of 450 euros, as Mr Reynders had announced loud and clear, but about 200 euros. Little lie about the "gift" offered by the government! In total, this will in no way compensate the company car. This amount does not necessarily have to be allocated to mobility. I understand that the Minister of Mobility is not present since, with these 200 euros, you can go to the hairdresser instead of buying a subscription to STIB or SNCB. You can do whatever you want with it. It is therefore not a mobility allowance. This is one of the major weaknesses of this text. As far as the Council of State is concerned, you are going to tell me that this government is used to receiving murderous opinions from the Council of State. Here, he really is. I read: "It is highly doubtful whether this is an appropriate way to achieve the objective of sustainable mobility." I'm not saying it, it's the Council of State. The latter made murderous remarks to which the government did not reply in any way: - the current advantageous status of company cars is maintained as it is; - the measure is based on the free consent of the employer and the worker; - the choice of converting the advantage of a company car into a mobility allowance is not irreversible; - the worker, when he has several company cars, can have the mobility allowance for one car and keep the other. Mrs Dumery has said it and it is already an aberration, Mrs De Block: the same worker who has several company cars, yes, it exists! We're going all the way to our house! Frankly, this is not going to help mobility in our country! You cannot drive two cars at the same time; do you agree with me, Mr. President? Of course, you totally agree with me, I thought so. - There is no relationship between the need for mobility of the worker concerned and the amount of the allowance. - He can freely dispose of the allowance, I said, without transforming it into sustainable alternative transport. This is a series of murderous remarks made by the Council of State, to which we have not received any reply in committee. The Council of State concludes that there is serious doubt as to the relevance of the proposed measure to its objective. There is therefore no relation between the measure and the objective of the measure, since, indeed, everyone will be able to keep his car. The Mobility FPS made a small analysis: between 3% and 9% of company car holders might be interested in the government's project. [[Between 3% and 9%!]] Yes, you are right to lift your eyebrows, Mr. President! That's nothing. That is to say, this will obviously not solve our mobility problems. Mr Gilkinet wanted to pay tribute, of course, to the CNT who came to the hearing...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u135	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u136	I wouldn't say that, Mr Cheron! I would like to reiterate the way in which the government is doing social consultation. He sent her bill on 4 October, Mrs De Block, to the Council of State. The Conseil d'État states that for this type of project, unless urgent, it is necessary to seek the opinion of the CNT. When does this government seek the advice of the NTC? At the end of December! He had no doubt read the opinion of the Council of State which met this obligation. The worst thing is that the government then tells the CNT that it has time to deliver its opinion, but it comes to Parliament, with its mouth in mind, asking for urgency on this project so that it can vote within fifteen days! Fortunately, the opposition did not accept all of this! Fortunately, there was a second reading, and here we are in March, with this bill before the house. From the start, the CNT is despised. He was told to write his opinion at ease, that he had four weeks to do so and that, in any event, the project would not be affected. It is also a mockery of the social partners. The worst thing is that, for once, gentlemen and ministers, the CNT had delivered a unanimous opinion! For once, you had a good consultation between the social partners and they agreed. This unanimous opinion is not intended to support the government's project but to say that this government project will in no way solve the problem of mobility, as confirmed by the Council of State. But it doesn't matter. We announced it. It's in a balance, in one of your many balances that don't look much like the workers. So we don't want to give up anything and we don't want to change the bill. Why doesn't this bill make any sense, according to the NTC?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u137	Mrs Lalieux, as chairman of the Finance Committee, I received a letter from the National Labour Council on 22 February, which states: "In this opinion, the councils urge the government to ensure that, in addition to a mobility allowance, there is also a mobility budget." We have also discussed this in our committee. The Council did not oppose the vote on the mobility allowance. In committee, however, several members have confirmed and the Minister has committed himself to achieving a mobility budget on the basis of the NAR draft. I understand that the discussion on this issue is in the final stage in government circles and will be announced in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u138	(...) in the coming days?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u139	Yeah, you should ask the government. Minister De Block is also present at the moment. The mobility budget is part of the government meetings of recent days. It's complementary, it's not contradictory, ma'am! We discussed it in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u140	Mr Van Rompuy, let me say what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u141	Mrs. Lalieux, before you answer Mr. Van Rompuy, I shall pass the floor to Mr Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u142	Mr President, on the same subject. I am happy to endorse what the chairman of the committee said. Mrs Lalieux, I am surprised at your discourse. In fact, I wonder if you have been following the work? The same discussions have all been discussed there. At the request of the opposition, we held hearings on which the social partners were present. They have said what Mr Van Rompuy said just now, in particular that they are not opposed to this draft and that they can support it if a mobility budget is drawn up at the same time. The government is now putting the finishing touches to that. It is reported that it will be on the agenda for tomorrow, but we will hear more about this when the government responds. During the hearings, we also heard the Bond on Better Environment. What amazes me most of all from you and Mr Gilkinet of Ecolo-Green is that you raise the arguments of the car lobby, but apparently the League of Better Environments is not being listened to. The Bond Better Environment says that it prefers the cash for car scheme, the mobility allowance that the government wants to introduce now, over the mobility budget, because it encourages people to move less and they keep cash on it. That is what the League says better Environment, Mrs Lalieux, and what Mr Gilkinet and you are against. I think that is very special and, frankly, I do not understand that very well. You're gonna have to explain that to me. I've been listening to you for about five minutes. You have a lot of criticism, but what is your alternative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u143	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u144	First of all, I give the floor to Mr Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u145	Mr President, I had not yet finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u146	Mr Geerts asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u147	Mrs Lalieux, please ask Mr Lachaert what interpretation he gave to the presentation of the Bond Better Environment. I am very surprised that he would now become a spokesperson. I have that presentation in hand here and I think that the potential new spokesman of the Bond for Better Environment has experienced a different hearing than I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u148	Mr. President, you arrested me when I talked about the NTC. My first point was to say that the cash for car project only makes sense if a mobility budget is introduced at the same time. You demonstrate very well that the government tabled its text in January and that the NTC's opinion arrived on February 22. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u149	We agree except that, according to the law, this should be asked before the bill was introduced in Parliament. Respecting the social partners is a minimum! Mr Lachaert, you are asking us for our alternatives. A bill has just been tabled. The alternative is what the CNT proposes. We are tabling a bill today with sp.a. But every time we offer you an alternative – probably a little relevant – you reject it because it comes from the opposition. So stop asking us our alternatives! In any case, you never accept them, not even amendments! If you were really convinced and you were really following the NTC, you would have been a little patient about this bill and you would have put both in parallel. No doubt we would have voted both in parallel! It didn't make sense who if both were in parallel. Mr Van Rompuy, we do not have the mobility budget. Today, what you are proposing is not an alternative. What you are proposing today is not an alternative to traffic jams. The Council of State said so, the CNT said so too. Mr Van Rompuy, you're just confirming what I'm saying. I would like to ask the Minister of Mobility a question, but he is not here. If you are convinced that it takes both in parallel, why do you want to vote for this project in haste? I hope I get an answer earlier. I had one more question for Mr Bellot, but perhaps one of the two ministers could answer me. Mr. Bellot said that many of the Council of State's remarks were well-founded. What do they look like to him? What is the estimate of the number of cars withdrawn by this device? I asked Mr Bellot at the committee meeting for this, who told me that he would provide figures at a later stage. I am still waiting for them, but the problem is that he is not present at this session. We can still delay the vote on this bill. Our goal was for the government to link the two projects together and bring them into effect simultaneously. Today, no mobility budget is announced, even at first reading. In any case, I have not heard of it, unless you tell me that it is already written and that it will arrive in the government on Friday. Is the draft mobility budget already drafted? Mr Lachaert absolutely wants the PS and sp.a to propose alternatives. We are always positive to propose, Mr. Lachaert. We have therefore tabled the only solution that is a bit on the road to try to reduce traffic congestion and congestion in our country and to really move towards sustainable mobility: the mobility budget. Mr Lachaert, we can ask to vote urgently on our bill. As the majority is asking for alternatives, I hope that it will vote urgently with us so that, next week, we can work on the mobility budget in committee. Mr Van Rompuy, I am sure you will be happy to put it directly on the agenda of the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u150	Mr. Speaker, Madam and Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under consideration is based on the fact that our country is facing a mobility problem, mainly due to blocked road traffic and significant congestion on our roads. The project is not intended to replace the company car system but to offer an alternative to the workers who have it, in order to reduce the car fleet. This is, whether you want it or not, the first initiative in this area, and it deserves to be welcomed. This will be added shortly, as the President recalled, to the mobility budget, on which the technical discussions are under way. These will be two complementary systems, the best articulation of which will have to be ensured. This project acts in the short term on the role of the company car: it offers an alternative competing with it. Only a financial incentive allows workers to voluntarily exchange their cars for other means of transport more in line with sustainable development. In practical terms, this mobility allowance is intended to enable workers to return their cars for a sum of money having the same tax and social status as that applicable to company cars. The mobility allowance has three main characteristics: it must be set up on a voluntary basis for both workers and the employer. This freedom of choice is important to us. It has a tax and social status equal to that of the company car, in order to avoid discouraging distortion; it is budget neutral, both for the worker and for the employer, but also for public finances and social security. I would like to mention some statistics that Minister Bellot gave in committee. According to the analysis carried out by the Mobility and Transport FPS, 3 to 9% of people would be willing to give up their car in return for a mobility allowance. This would represent an average of almost 25,000 company cars that would be removed from urban or peri-urban areas. This figure is not negligible: each car less helps to solve some of the mobility problems. It's a start. I would like to recall that the government is also taking many initiatives to improve sustainable mobility and reduce CO2 emissions in our country, particularly through investment in rail. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are many expectations of our citizens in terms of mobility. There is a need for concrete responses. For our group, the mobility allowance is a relevant alternative to the use of the company car in terms of cost, while guaranteeing the freedom of choice of each party. We are aware that the work is not finished. The mobility allowance is a first step; the mobility budget is the next. This is a first step that deserves to be welcomed. For all these reasons, the MR Group will enthusiastically support the bill on the introduction of a mobility allowance, Mr Cheron.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u151	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the mobility allowance is now better known as cash for car. I am not going to hide the fact that we have had some mixed feelings about this measure in the beginning. It seemed for a moment that this mobility allowance would be the result of the passage from the government agreement which envisaged a mobility budget. This mobility budget had to become a full alternative to company and salary cars. We have opposed the limited implementation of this objective. The mobility allowance cannot be regarded as a full mobility budget as we have already envisaged. The aim of the proposal that we worked out in 2013 was to break down "automatism." Breaking the automatic reflex to start using the car for almost every move. Several studies show that more kilometres are being driven with the company or salary car. Mr Gilkinet has already referred to this. This was also discussed during the hearings. Of course, this doesn't make any sense. That company car's gonna be more profitable if people drive it more. Breaking that logic by developing an attractive alternative that responds to the mobility needs of workers and, by definition, should be multimodal, was the objective of the proposal for a mobility budget as we had presented it in the previous legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, we can agree to what is going on here. Actually, it's an important breakthrough. However modest, for the first time an alternative is offered to the company car. Employers who make the company car available will be given the opportunity to include the mobility allowance in the wage package they offer to their employees. In this way, employees will be able to refrain from using that company car. In order to encourage this, the mobility allowance will have the same tax and social benefit status, such as the company car that already has today, namely the advantage of all kinds. What the employee does with that fee, he's free. However, since his means of transport falls away, it can be assumed, or should be assumed, that the compensation will at least be used for his movements and/or to move closer to work. Not insignificant, either. Of course, converting extralegal benefits, as the company car is one, into cash is not so obvious. I do not need to remind you of the debate on ecocheques and meal cheques. The opinion of the Council of State also referred to this. There are also many anti-abuse provisions that clearly align the scope. They must avoid using this instrument for wage optimisation or for the further erosion of social security. It is also important that the mobility allowance is given the same social and tax status as the car, but that it will not evolve with the worker's career. All this, of course, can lead to the attractiveness of effectively trading the company car and hence the success of the measure being rather limited. Is that a reason not to support the proposed measure? No way! Some estimates have already been published: 3 % to 9 % is sometimes said. The committee meeting discussed 40 000 cars which would disappear. All in all, it remains of course coffee dick watching how many commercial cars will disappear. In my personal opinion, there's definitely an audience for this. A small audience, mostly city dwellers. People who live in Antwerp or Brussels, for example, or perhaps in Leuven, Mechelen and so on. People who have sufficient alternatives at their disposal, people who live close to work but who often have problems getting the car they have got parked. Place to purchase parking is also not evident in a densely built area. For these people, the company car is not only an extra-legal advantage but often also a burden. For that target group alone, this design, however modest, certainly enjoys our support. What is important to us is that, after this modest step, the bigger step will follow: the full mobility budget. That has already been mentioned. They're working hard on that within the government. We are perhaps close to an agreement, in line with the unanimous opinion expressed by the social partners in committee. The NAR, the CRB, employers and employees, presented a unanimous opinion on this subject. It is good that the government is working on the implementation of this agreement. Therefore, during the discussion of the draft on the introduction of a mobility allowance in the committees, the various ministers concerned explicitly confirmed that work would be done on the forthcoming draft law on the introduction of a mobility budget, which was announced in November 2017 and will offer workers a choice from a wide range of means of transport and transport services. Alternative modes of transport, such as public transport, bike and sub-cars, will be encouraged in that design by an exemption from RSZ and taxes. In our view, such a mobility budget provides an even greater incentive to make more sustainable mobility choices. We are therefore counting on the rapid implementation of this attractive and full mobility budget. In this context, I agree with the words used by the chairman of the Finance Committee during the plenary sessions. He pointed out that we should be able to see a draft law on the introduction of a mobility budget before Easter 2018. So we are very much looking forward to an agreement on this. My only question to the Ministers is therefore the following. What's the status? When can we expect results in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u152	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are standing here, regardless of the criticism, for a revolutionary step. For the first time in decades, since the company car system exists, an effective alternative to the company car is offered. Given the history of the dossier, no one concerned with the environment and public health, should we start from scratch, would make the choice for the current system of commercial vehicles. However, the system is there. The problem is that hundreds of thousands of workers in our country are now enjoying the system. Abolishing it from one day to the next would unfortunately constitute a serious breach of the pay of those concerned. On the net wage, this abolition would be a drastic step which we cannot defend against public opinion. Mr Geerts, you did a little bit narrow-minded about what the League explained to the Better Environment at the hearings and to which I refer. I added the quotes made by Mathias Bienstman during the hearings. He stated, first of all, that the League for Better Environment as an environmental movement is of course not happy that the system of commercial vehicles exists. The first concern of the organisation would be simply to abolish the system. It is aware, however, that the abolition is very difficult or not justifiable. In the hearing he said for this reason that, if there is too much resistance to the idea of abolition, the introduction of a mobility allowance, also called cash for car, is the second best solution. You can read that in the report, from which I quote literally. Mr Gilkinet, you are actually contradicting the Bond on Better Environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u153	Mr Gilkinet, are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u154	Yes, Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement. My will is not to draw things in length, but Mr Lachaert asks me a second time on the point of view of Bond Beer Leefmilieu. Indeed, Bond Beer Leefmilieu and all environmental associations share the same critical view, including on the NTC proposal. However, they aligned arguments in favour and against this system considering that this proposal was second best and a step towards a system that would freeze the system in terms of "wage car" and would offer all workers a mobility allowance and sustainable non-polluting alternatives to travel. But you cannot consider that the intervention of Bond Beter Leefmilieu before our committees was a support for the cash for car. In my view, this interpretation is not correct of what was said by the very friendly and competent representative of this very important association in our society. He certainly had a critical view of the CNT's proposal, but he was as much, if not more, in relation to the cash for car project. I will finish earlier with my own presentation, but I believe that your interpretation is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u155	Mr Gilkinet, I did not specifically fish you. However, I found it interesting to repeat the quotes of Mathias Bienstman. He literally says: "If the resistance to this reform is "too great, the introduction of a mobility fee (cash for car) is the second best solution." What is also interesting is that he actually responds to three bad arguments against the mobility allowance, which I continue to hear. Firstly, reference is made to the opinion of the Council of State on the unequal treatment of workers. I'm a lawyer myself, and I do have some practice experience. The Council of State has included this in its opinions since the debate on the ecocheque. In fact, I think that there is a mistake there. It is the legislator who offers a certain framework and that framework must be the same for everyone. Every Belgian must be able to enjoy the legal framework, but we do not create inequality. The inequality lies in the negotiation between employer and employee about what is included in a salary package, not in the fact that one A enjoys and the other B. In the end, this is an agreement between employer and employee, which is exactly what one places in a salary package. Personally, I think that the Council of State has been critical of this since the opinion on the ecocheque was on the wrong track, which is now constantly being re-examined in various opinions. Mathias Bienstman of the Bond Better Environment comes back to that as well. He says this is actually a bad argument. If one wants to use that argument, he says, then the mistake is actually already with the company car itself, because there are people with and without a company car. Mr Bienstman also responds I can share that opinion and say that this will lead to workers buying their own cars. We heard the same thing at the hearing. Vacancy.com has conducted a small digital survey. The representative of the CRB has re-established that. He said that 18% of employees with a company car are interested in cash for car and would accept that scheme. Half of them, so 9%, would buy a car themselves, not the other half. The representative of the CRB said that assuming only that 9%, 30 000 cars are actually taken off the road. As Mr Van den Bergh said, it has a limited effect in itself, but it is still about 30 000 cars. The CRB is gonna give us a heads-up to get these cars out of traffic. In addition, the Bond Beter Leefmilieu says that the other half of that 18%, which means also 9%, would opt for their own car, which is also a good thing because at least they no longer have a tank card with which it doesn't matter how many kilometres they drive. After all, such a tank card is a very advantageous way of driving at the employer's expense. A study carried out at the time shows that people with a company car travel more kilometres, some 6 000 per year, than workers without a company car. As limited as you want to see it, there is also a positive effect in this area. The third counter-argument that is often put forward has also been answered and I share that view. There is often criticism of the cash for car design because it would not focus on mobility. That is actually a rather strange argument, because that counter argument would mean that the car should be exchanged for something that should be aimed at mobility. The strange thing about this counter-argument is that public transport also causes an ecological footprint. So what we want most is for people to move less. When the system is focused solely on mobility, mobility consumption is promoted in part. For this reason, the Bond prefers the better environment to this solution, as the second best idea, rather than the idea of the social partners. I am not against the idea of the social partners. I would remind you that two years ago our party drew up a plan consisting of the following four shutters. Firstly, cash for car, which is now on the table. Secondly, a mobility budget which can be managed by the employer, with which we are in complete agreement with Mr Van den Bergh's group. This was also proposed by the social partners. So we are not at all opposed to the budget as the social partners have advised. Like Mr Van den Bergh, we wish this to be added to the debate and quickly become a reality. Thirdly, we agree, Mr Gilkinet, that everyone should be able to enjoy a mobility budget. Our call to the social partners in the biennial IPA agreements on wage bargaining was also to convert the relocation of residence into a basic mobility budget and to grow that biennially to the level of a middle-class car so that everyone can enjoy it in the long term. This is a gradual process that needs to grow in wage bargaining. Fourthly, this was also taken up in the opinion of the social partners, since we do know a system of commercial vehicles, and we are strongly in favour of drastically greening it, by ensuring that commercial vehicles, which are often the forerunners of the private second-hand market, become greener. In ten years' time, the commercial vehicles should be zero emission vehicles. That was the four shutters of our plan. We are therefore pleased to be able to approve the first part today. Colleagues of the opposition, who count on a fast mobility budget, we, too, are counting on it and hope that it will quickly become a reality within the government. Perhaps the ministers will be able to tell us a little more about this later. That is what I have summarized in general terms. Our group has always been in favour of a peaceful revolution, not a fiery revolution, but a revolution in which we finally offer choices in the salary package alongside the company car. It had to be budget neutral for the employer, the employee and the government. With this design and the design that will hopefully come soon, we will succeed. It's a system of freedom of choice. Mrs Lalieux, we do not believe that in an employment relationship one can unilaterally decide to convert this. You have to understand that. Suppose that many employees of a company that has dozens of commercial vehicles choose to do so, then that company has a problem with a fleet of vehicles that it cannot do much with in the next few years. We have always said that it must be budget-neutral for everyone, including the employer. This is a choice that the employer and the employee must make together. This is also the case in the opinion of the social partners on the mobility budget. I think I've said everything about this. We are very pleased that we can take the first step. If the second draft is subsequently followed and hopefully unanimously supported, our group is in favour of working as quickly as possible on the implementation of the opinion of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u156	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the matter again, as colleagues have already done. I shall proceed immediately to the content of what is to be discussed. My fundamental thought is: what is the purpose of the design? We normally look at the title or the explanatory memorandum. The title is as follows: "draft law on the introduction of a mobility allowance'. The explanatory memorandum under "to address congestion problems" reads: "Files in Belgium have a major impact not only on the mobility and environmental aspects of our society, but also on the well-being of citizens and on the Belgian economy." Then I ask myself the fundamental question: is the legislation we are voting on today a solution, as stated in the explanatory statement? I took part in all the hearings. Yesterday and today, I went to great lengths to read the various articles written about them. I have also read the replies of the ministers. Mr Lachaert says that this is now a revolutionary step, but I must say that not many people are convinced that this is now the great step forward. On Monday I read in the newspaper something about windowdressing: "The mobility budget will be approved. It does not make much difference on the road, but it is useful to give the impression that the government is tackling the mobility fiasco." Mr Lachaert and other members of the majority, that is my fundamental criticism of this whole procedure, that we should be treated as a separate dossier and hope that we will approve it. What, in our view, should the mobility budget be? I understand the government is coming up with a proposal before Easter. What's the message I can give to the Easter Bunny? I went to look at the literature. The mobility budget is actually a budget for mobility as a guiding principle to promote sustainable alternatives alongside the company car. That is a mobility budget, and that is not what we are seeing here today. The literature also raises the question of whether a fee-paying handicap should be solved with commercial cars, even if they are green commercial vehicles. That is the fundamental question to be asked. I know the file has grown for decades. For the sake of clarity, our group is also in favour of no-one losing pay, but if we want to preach the revolution, Mr Lachaert, then we must dare to ask that question, especially with regard to the welfare of the future generation. I also said in committee that we do not see the principle of cash for car as the great solution. Figures have already been given. According to studies, people with a salary car drive 6 000 kilometres more, 2 800 kilometres more in commuting and almost 3 000 kilometres more during leisure activities. The social costs amount to EUR 905 million. Tax costs for the public sector amount to 1.2 billion euros. It is said that this is a small step, but the growth in the number of registered commercial cars in 2016 and 2017 was 3,6 and 3,2 % respectively. It is said that on 445 000 cars there is a potential of 30 000 commercial cars less, but if there is no fundamental change in politics, the mopping with the crane will be opened, because the expected decline will be cancelled after two to three years. Reference has also been made to the opinion of the Council of State. We do not always have to take this into account, we may have doubts about it, but I quote the last of seven points in the report. The Council of State says that there are no reliable elements in the explanatory memorandum of the draft that make it plausible that there is a demonstrable link between the proposed measure and its intended purpose, namely to bring fewer cars into circulation and thus achieve a reduction in traffic congestion and the related health, economic and other problems. According to the Council of State, therefore, there are serious doubts as to the pertinence of the proposed measure in the light of its objective. I can only quote what the Council of State points out in this regard. I am not the spokesman for one lobby or another, but there appears to be a risk. I don't think you can deny that. This week we have been able to read in the newspaper what types of cars would benefit financially. People will trade in their company car, but they will probably buy a more polluting car. That's not how the car fleet narrows down on the road. It's just gonna be less sustainable. You just gave the argument of the meal cheques and the ecocheques. I repeat the quote of a chairman of the Fietsersbond, which I also gave in committee: 'Being believe that this form of mobility budget will change our behaviour is as naive as believing that the meal check helps against obesity'. That's what civil society lives for. Civil society is very sceptical about this measure, despite the euphoria created by the majority. I refer once again to the presentations we have received. That is worth a fundamental debate to me. Who's got a paycheck now? The highest deciel of earners owns 50% of the salary wagons and if I look at the ninth and tenth decimals, I come to 71%. This means that there is a huge subsidy from the middle class to the best-earned, because the tax cost of commercial vehicles is 4.2 billion. This means that 2.1 billion goes to pay-cost subsidies for those who earn the best. The Minister for Mobility certainly said that he wanted to keep these commercial vehicles because otherwise our companies would not be competitive and that they would have to be given an effective company car. All this can be true, but I can only see that the subsidy in wage formation costs two billion to attract people in a different form of wage subsidies. All in all, therefore, that goes from the general resources to the 10% best earned. The question needs to be asked whether we should pursue a wage policy that also has an impact on the environment. I've just been talking about those 6,000 kilometers. It turns out people drive more cars because they have that company car. After a number of hearings the 30 000 arrived. Both employers and social secretariats are wondering what administration will have to be designed to make this system work. If they say they have a mobility budget at Easter, I wonder to what extent this legislation will not be obsolete by the time it is effectively rolled out. The committee also gave examples of companies which today, on their own initiative, give their employees the opportunity to apply a mobility budget as it should exist in the definition. Those companies are already here today, not to mention Proximus. Mr President, everyone in this hemisphere agrees that traffic jams need to be dealt with, just because of what is in the explanatory statement. For my group, this must be done in a different way, with other forms of mobility being effectively supported in an overall mobility budget, such as partial alternatives, partial cars, bicycles, public transport etc. That's why there's no point in this. We have had the debate this week on the investment grant of both SNCB and Infrabel. The MR will of course say, since it supplies the minister responsible, that it is not true. But that will be the task. If we want to reduce our traffic jams effectively, we must increase the share of public transport in commuting to 15% to 20% during peak hours. That makes it necessary to invest in it. Just putting forward this and saying that it is a revolutionary idea is not correct and I regret that. We are in favour of a mobility budget as it should be effective. A mobility allowance seems to us to be rather nice. Above all, however, there is a need to invest permanently in public transport in order to reduce congestion. The Easter Bunny may exist according to the majority. To be honest, I don't believe in it anymore. That is why we will abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u157	Colleagues, despite what the government and the majority are trying to make us believe, we are not here, with cash for because, in the presence of a bill that would significantly reduce the number of company cars in circulation. Even if a few workers take advantage of this opportunity, the number of new company cars that will be registered within the same time frame will ensure that this cancer, this problem for society and for the health of the company cars, will continue to spread. This is the real difficulty we face. It took this government four years for it to come out and act. It does so half way, with an insufficient level of ambition in relation to the stakes, without listening to the solutions put on the table by some interlocutors. I am of course thinking of the CNT or the representative of Bond Beter Leefmilieu, who also spoke on behalf of Inter-Environnement Wallonia and Inter-Environnement Brussels. Nor does it take into account the remarks made by the Council of State, but we are used to that. Once again, this government is announcing goals to which we adhere. If the goal is to reduce the number of company cars, you will find us as partners. But the government is not giving itself the means to achieve this goal. Cash for car is a nice ad, but its effects will not be verified in reality. Nothing is worse than a disappointed hope among citizens. These company cars are cancer and I'm going to develop this idea. For us environmentalists, this is an essential question of the future. What are the stakes? Questions of mobility, congestion of our roads, as well as wage issues. Workers are entitled to be paid in euros rather than diesel or cars. It is a question of financing social security. We know why the company car system has developed. It develops at the expense of social security. It is a question of social justice and equity between workers. If we analyse the distribution of company cars by wage decile, and the type of company cars obtained by workers on the basis of their wages, we can see that they mainly benefit workers with the highest wage levels. It is also a matter of public health and I will develop it. It is also a climate issue related to CO2 emissions. It is also neglecting an issue of energy independence for our country. This propensity of the governments, yours and the previous governments, to favour the car, to favour the company car makes us more and more dependent on the countries that have in their basement gas or above all oil. This has an important geopolitical influence on peace and war in the world. I would point out that, in this debate on company cars, we environmentalists want to distinguish between "tool" cars, used by their beneficiaries in the course of their work to carry out numerous trips (trucks, vans) and "salary" cars that replace wages. We say this clearly with environmental associations, we must stop paying workers with cars and fuel. All workers deserve a real salary and the rights derived from it in terms of social contributions and social rights. There is an urgent need to reduce the congestion of our roads to leave them to those who need them to work. Traffic jams cost hundreds of millions of euros each year, or even more than one or two billion euros according to the FEB's analyses, to economic actors who are blocked on the road rather than accessing their construction site, their workplace. We must reduce the number of cars on our roads because, as I said, they consume oil that makes us dependent on the countries that have it in their basement and they emit CO2 that has an impact on our climate. We have committed ourselves in Paris and elsewhere to avoid this warming of the planet by more than 2°. This should encourage us, by all means, to reduce our consumption of oil, carbon in the broad sense and to release less CO2 into the atmosphere. Furthermore, Madam Minister, what is completely neglected is that they release fine particles that themselves cause cardiovascular disease and have effects on the development of the fetus, on the development of our children's brains. Like me, you are aware of the study presented yesterday by Greenpeace Belgium whose results show the impact, in terms of CO2 and fine particulate matter, of car traffic around schools. This environment in which our children have to evolve has become bad for their health. This situation, more than we are concerned about, convinces us of the need for urgent action. She should worry you so much and push you to act. I should also not remind you that every year Belgium is pointed out by the European Commission because of its far too favourable regime for company cars, which is almost unique in Europe. I quoted this figure in committee and I repeat: from 2007 to 2016, their number increased by 54%. Another important fact is that 80 per cent of company cars have diesel engines, the special feature of which is the diffusion of fine particles; this is a major public health problem, especially in urban areas. Ministers, this situation should encourage you to opt for something other than this homeopathic measure. Before I continue, I would like to say a word about an aspect that seems to me to be crucial in terms of good public management and that was raised in our discussions. This is the absence of official statistics on the company car. The figures I quote are from surveys outside the public authorities. In my view, no public policy – particularly in the tax field, since such a measure has an effect on the revenue of the State – can develop intelligently without having annual statistics. This organised blindness in favour of the company car is really problematic. As some have welcomed, this is the first time that we have taken action in this area. I believe, however, that you are doing so because of greater societal pressure than ever before and which I am delighted about. I could also enjoy this first step, but the company car remains a taboo. It's like the government is afraid to take it seriously. I repeat, this system will only have a marginal effect in terms of reducing the number of company vehicles. The studies of the Mobility FPS and those carried out by private offices show this. Furthermore, there is no evidence that the benefit to be paid to the worker as a net salary will be used for mobility. I am not even talking about the case, noted in committee, of workers who have two company cars and who, tomorrow, will retain one, plus a net advantage; which is totally incomprehensible. There is an urgent need to reduce the number of cars, and hence the number of company cars, to reduce the number of kilometres travelled by these cars and the pollution emitted by these cars; and to this end, to build a credible alternative of mobility open to all workers. For example, in the form, which is now being developed at the initiative of private firms, of a multimodal map that could be used by workers to meet their daily mobility needs. A shared car; public transport with a subscription or a one-time trip; possibly a taxi to carry out the last kilometres; possibly renting an office or coworking space near the home to reduce mobility needs; buying and maintaining a bicycle and equipment related to the use of this bike. There are really things to invent, which are also creating economic activity and jobs; but in a model where the car is not the center of the world. The NTC proposed, many months ago, a piece of legislation that is better than your bill. Indeed, it offers a cascading system, which actually pushes workers to abandon their company car or to choose a model of company car of less cylinder capacity, thus less polluting. A mobility budget would be made available to workers. It should be allocated to mobility expenses, not to everything and anything. The unspent balance would be allocated to the worker at the end of the year, but would be subject to social or tax contributions – it would be a final gross salary. This proposal is not perfect. As has been said by Mr Lachaert, it maintains a form of inequality between workers, between those who benefit from a company car and those who do not. It is true that if you keep a company car, even if you have a smaller cylinder capacity, it is always a company car. But we see it as a step, as a way to prove that it is possible to do otherwise than pay workers with company cars and let our streets and our roads clog up with a large number of cars. I still do not understand how the government did not endorse this proposal. She's been on the table for many months. It was presented in the social affairs and finance committees as part of the NTC hearing to which I referred during the report on this text. You tell us that the proposal is still under discussion. MM. Lachaert and Van den Bergh say they are optimistic about the possibility of a speedy conclusion, as one can say optimistic about the conclusion of an energy pact or about a solution for ARCO or about other "sympathetic" issues on the government's agenda today and which are not moving forward. But why didn't you get a text that made a consensus between the social partners, workers' representatives and employers' representatives? Is it a lack of listening, a chronic lack of respect for the social partners in the head of government? Yes! It is as if there was, in your head, an intellectual delight to do the opposite of what the social partners propose to you. Is it the conviction that you can be right on your own, to be smarter than all the organizations we consult on a regular basis, a lack of will for change, conservatism, a lack of imagination, a lack of interest in environmental and public health issues? I feel like it's a little bit of this, and it's absolutely regrettable. We have proposed amendments in committees that incorporate the CNT text. Today, in open session, we are resubmitting these 47 amendments, hoping that this time they will receive the support of a majority. But, be careful! We consider that, if necessary, this is only a step towards a model where public transport financing is a priority for this government which has begun – Mr Cheron might remind you – by a linear reduction in the budgets for rail mobility, by the abolition of this system of pay-cars, by the granting to each worker of a mobility allowance and by the development of multimodal mobility solutions which would make it possible to ensure that the car does not occupy a central place in the political choices that are made. There is an urgent need to reverse this heavy trend, which makes people sick, pollutes and damages the climate. We need to work on modern alternatives that will also create jobs, Mr. Nollet, will improve our quality of life. We must show imagination, political courage. Unfortunately, your text lacks all these qualities!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u158	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at least one observation seems to be shared by everyone, that is the starting point. It was described by the Planning Office in very judicious terms. It was a 2016 study that said: "The tax system applicable to company cars presents an attractive alternative of remuneration for the company and the employee, in comparison with the gross wage. However, this regime also represents an important subsidy to the possession and use of the car as a means of transport which is not without economic, environmental and social consequences." It's all said. There is a gain for both the employee and the employer in the company car system, but there is a collective cost, an economic, societal, environmental cost, hence the need – and on this point, we can join – to review the tax system of the company car today. In fact, this is a belief expressed by the government in its policy statement, which states: "The government creates a legal framework for a mobility budget so that it can be implemented quickly and easily." That was in 2014. We are four years later and this point of the government declaration is still not being implemented. The parties of the majority have agreed that what is before us does not correspond to what was announced by the government at the beginning of the legislature. Since that government statement, the speech has been somewhat fluctuating. Mr Reynders announced, in 2016, with some accuracy, as the facts gave him reason, that the option would be cash, for an amount of 450 euros. It has been corrected by some majority partners who said: "No, it will not be cash, but a real mobility budget, that's what we want." Finally, today the cash solution was adopted, not a range of possibilities, such as the CD&V had proposed. All for cash! When we talk about cash, the Liberal parties are necessarily happy, but the others have a little more trouble, are dissatisfied with the solution adopted, because the account is not quite there. This dissatisfaction is ultimately shared by almost everyone. Who finally welcomes the proposal submitted to the government? No one. It is certainly not the social partners, who are unanimous in considering that we are facing a missed opportunity and a completely ineffective solution. The social partners have shown a great deal of patience, pedagogy and pro-activity in this area. They submitted a proposal, as early as September 2017, a text transmitted through the National Labour Council and the Central Economic Council, which had the ambition to introduce a mobility budget. Today, you want to give a little impression, little or no, that you are inspired by this approach, but, in reality, the social partners have been very virulent in their opinion on the government's project. They made it clear that the mobility allowance makes sense, from the point of view of sustainable mobility in any case, only if a mobility budget is also introduced. Objectively, the mobility budget is not there. The NTC has therefore concluded that its solution is simpler, since it evolves better according to the worker's career and is therefore a happier, more relevant solution than the mobility allowance. You have also drawn a distinction between the mobility allowance and the mobility budget. It's not the same thing. In fact, this is not a mobility allowance; it is only a replacement allowance in relation to the company car. You actually have two options; there is a real alternative. On the one hand, the solution of the social partners, which is a complete, intelligent proposal and which really encourages another mobility and, on the other hand, the solution of the government, which is inefficient - everyone is aware of it - and which is aimed only at the short term - as Mr Piedboeuf even said earlier - and which ultimately has the sole objective of validating the balances which have taken place in the government last summer. You had an alternative: on the one hand, the government's minimalist proposal and, on the other, the CDH's proposal to establish a real budget for quality of life. But sometimes, what comes from the opposition does not have much interest in the government, and I can understand that. You also had the CD&V proposal, which dates back to 2014. This was a really interesting proposal, but the government did not objectively make a big deal about it. And you had the NTC's opinion or proposal. None of these three proposals have found thanks to your eyes and this remains, objectively, incomprehensible! How were you able to turn the proposal of the social partners, who in this case were unanimous and who had gone very far in drafting their text? How could you finally satisfy yourself with this conversion of the mobility budget into a cash operation? That says a lot, no doubt, is one of the lessons of this debate, about the lack of consideration you give to the social partners. You first adopted the preliminary draft without even seeking their opinion, and then the Council of State reminded you that it was still a formal obligation. So you finally agreed to seek the opinion of the CNT, but you first wanted to vote the text quickly in committee, without even taking the time to receive this opinion. On the opposition side, we have "played the watch" a little so that this opinion is really on the table. Finally, the vote will only take place after receipt of the opinion. Obviously, you didn't read it or you didn't want to take it into account. This shows a form of contempt for the social partners. You try to hide it by implying that your proposal is a first step, which will announce others, that it is complementary to the NTC proposal. You're playing with words. The mobility allowance is not complementary to the mobility budget. To make this clear, I would like to refer to this opinion of the CNT, which came to you on 22 February. On page 4, it says: "The mobility budget encourages multimodality, unlike the mobility allowance". It is not written "in addition to the mobility allowance", but "in contrast to the mobility allowance". So there's a real difference. The NTC, in this opinion, lists the points on which its proposed mobility budget responds well to mobility issues, unlike the government's mobility allowance. I am quoting these elements because these arguments discredit the government's proposal. 1. The mobility budget gives workers a greater incentive to make sustainable mobility choices than the mobility allowance. 2. The mobility budget encourages multimodality, unlike the mobility allowance. 3. The mobility budget encourages sustainable mobility choices both before and after a company car is granted. 4. The mobility budget discourages workers from exchanging their company car for a private car. 5. The mobility budget generally promotes more sustainable travel. On arrival, there is no confusion: on the one hand, there is a proposal which is part of a logic of sustainable mobility and, on the other, a somewhat rquiquisque proposal which is simply part of this philosophy, which is yours, to grant cash without too much objective concern for mobility. If the social partners do not find themselves in it, it must be honest to note that all organisations active in the field of mobility have also expressed their disappointment. The Febiac, Renta, Traxio, Touring, all these organizations considered that the government's project no longer corresponded to the original philosophy. They said that it was necessary to talk about a replacement allowance much more than a mobility budget. The Office of the Plan also expressed its scepticism as it considered that the system would not have an impact on road congestion because, presumably, too few employees would opt for the cash amount you are proposing. You have therefore decided to make some progress on your own by neglecting the opinions of all the bodies authorized to make a proposal in this area. What amazes me most is that even the opinions expressed by the FEB, you did not take them into account. The FEB is not enthusiastic. On the contrary, it considered that the options offered by your project are too limited. The worker has to abandon the company car completely in order to receive a mobility allowance, so this is the principle of "all or nothing". This project may be of interest to urban couples who already benefit from two company cars. It is in any case a project that may not be of interest to the world, it is the FEB that says so. It is then a project whose scope is too limited since it only targets workers who actually benefit from a company car. Workers who are eligible for a company car for the first time as a result of a promotion or a change of employer are a priori excluded from your scope of application. The FEB has demonstrated that this project does not take into account the reality of companies. I guess that must be hard to hear for some of you. Thus, the mobility allowance, says the FEB, is determined on the basis of the last car that the worker abandons; it is a fixed amount that does not change over time. This is not in line with employers' expectations. In the event of a change of employer, the amount of the allowance will continue to be determined on the basis of what happened with the employer with whom the company car was exchanged, regardless of the policy applicable to the new employer. There is therefore no flexibility. The tax advantage of social security contributions is determined on the basis of the last car returned. Finally, last but not least, in the eyes of employers, the one-year deadline in your bill is an absurd one in several respects, particularly because it does not take into account the fact that leasing, which companies generally use, lasts on average 48 months and costs are very high in the event of an early break. Therefore, the companies themselves do not find their own account. One more word to go back to the opinion of the Council of State. Mrs Lalieux has already explicitly echoed the comments of the Council of State, but they are so negative that I cannot help but stress that the Council of State has expressed its doubts about the relevance of the proposed measure to the objective you claim to pursue. Seven elements enable the Council of State to demonstrate that the mobility allowance will not achieve the objectives set: 1. The current advantageous status of company cars is maintained; 2. The proposed measure is based on the free consent of the employer and the worker; 3. The choice to convert the advantage of a company car into a mobility allowance is not irreversible; 4. If the worker has several company cars, obtaining a mobility allowance for a single company car does not exclude the use of other cars; 5. There is no relationship between the mobility needs of the worker concerned and the amount of the mobility allowance which is based on the catalogue price of the last company car; 6. The free availability of the mobility allowance in no way guarantees the effective use of sustainable alternative modes of transport; 7. The presentation accompanying the project does not contain any evidence that there is a demonstrable and demonstrated link between the proposed measure and its intended objective of reducing the number of cars in circulation and thereby reducing traffic congestion and the resulting economic, health and other problems. The objective will therefore not be achieved. This is the prognosis of the Council of State. It was confirmed by the Mobility FPS, which carried out an analysis showing that only 3 to 9% of the people concerned would be willing to give up their salary car in exchange for a mobility allowance. Where has the ambition of truly changing behaviour gone? Has this ambition ever existed? We can doubt that. In the discussions in committee, and in view of the quality of the presentation of the social partners in particular, the majority realized that the report would not be there. We were therefore suggested that the long-awaited mobility budget would come later. Honestly, Minister, you were not very enthusiastic, and I did not see a very firm commitment from you. On the contrary, you mentioned the need for anti-abuse provisions, and you expressed doubts about the budgetary neutrality of the social partners' proposal. There was no great enthusiasm for all this. I hear that we should have the government's decision for Easter. If it is not for Easter, it will be for the Trinity! We'll wait until we see her to really believe it. However, as the texts submitted at present stand, we can only come to one conclusion: the account is not there. Since you want cash, I'll tell you cash: the cdH will not vote for the proposed text. We consider you to have embarked on a wrong path when there was a credible alternative. Maintaining this bill is minimalism and no ambition. It's a risk of having a frozen system for a few more years. At best, it will coexist with another system that you will create. Where is administrative simplification? Frankly, we can ask ourselves the question. You had the cards in hand to change the company car regime into a mobility budget that met the needs of the workers, drawing on practices that already exist in several large companies, and ensuring goals in terms of mobility, environment and health. You have given up that ambition and it is for us incomprehensible. That is why, I repeat, the CDH will oppose your project of cash for car, in which the attractiveness of cash is stronger than a real solution in terms of mobility, simplification for companies or social consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u159	Mr President, many points on the method of calculating this proposal, the tax implications, the issues of labour law and budget neutrality have been raised in the Committee's discussions. I am not going to repeat this in detail in the Government's reply. I would like to confine myself to a few general remarks which I think are perfectly in line with the comments made in this plenary session. Firstly, the origin of today's debate on pay-cars. With regard to "salary" cars, the origin is obviously the growing difference in the past between gross wages and net wages. Too high gross wages made it almost impossible for employers to raise wages without affecting their competitiveness in the defensive. At the same time, the net earnings of that gross wage were increasingly under pressure. That is the origin of the proliferation of commercial vehicles that has indeed been there. Nevertheless, I want to point out that this government has worked on the two points that I mentioned as important in the development of "wage" cars. We have slowed the growth of gross wages while increasing the net income derived from that gross. In other words, the basic incentive to provide commercial vehicles, namely an alternative form of remuneration, has already been reduced by the other measures taken by the government. At the same time, the government recognizes that, although commercial vehicles make up 'but' more than 10% of all cars circulating on our roads, they have contributed to a mobility problem that is at least significant today. The mobility allowance is therefore a logical answer to both the origins of this discussion in terms of wage formation and the related problems, on the one hand, and the mobility issue which is, of course, very much at stake, on the other. A second general remark concerns the impact of the mobility allowance on the number of cars on the road. We now have only a few estimates. Indeed, we must wait for the reactions to the explanatory statement that we have just tabled in this bill. I see in the studies figures ranging from 15 000 to 40 000 cars. Within that fork it will in any case make a significant contribution to reducing the number of cars on our roads. The third element which took up a lot of time in the interventions was the discussion on mobility allowance and mobility budget. I would like to inform you that the government is very close to an agreement on the mobility budget. In the very near future, we will have to discuss this in more detail. I would like to highlight Mr. Van Rompuy. The letter he received from the NTC clearly indicates that there is complementarity between the mobility budget and the mobility allowance. I am sure that both can live perfectly together, which we will demonstrate in the days and weeks to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u160	Thank you, Minister. Colleagues, anyone else asking to speak? Excuse me, Madam Secretary, I give you the floor. You've been waiting so long.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u161	Mr President, you did not allow me to speak this afternoon, and now you are not giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u162	But I have nothing against you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u163	It's not our day! Ms. Lalieux asked us why we had received the NTC's opinion so late. First of all, we waited for the Council of State. Then we adapted our bill. This is the latest version we sent to the NTC. In short, the deadline of 21 February was normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u164	You sent him two months later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u165	Yes, but we waited for the opinion. I mean, be it! Mr President, it is important that the cash is treated as well as the car in terms of taxation, but also in terms of social security. The mobility allowance does not follow wages and is therefore expressly excluded from the RSC wage concept. This means that neither the employer nor the employee is liable to ordinary social security contributions. Of course, the monthly solidarity contribution to the mobility allowance remains payable, which is identical to the contribution that is also levied on a company car. That is why we believe that this will be budget-neutral. We are indeed very close to an agreement on the other part and people will therefore have more choice according to their family situation or their working situation, depending on whether they live in Brussels or outside Brussels or in other cities, in order to decide on an option.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u166	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u167	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2838/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2838/10) The draft law has 36 articles. The bill has 36 articles. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u168	Wording/Intitulé • 50 years old Georges Gilkinet cs (2838/11) Chapter I / Chapitre Irish • 51 – Georges Gilkinet cs (2838/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u169	Chapter / Chapter II • 53 " Georges Gilkinet cs" (2838/11) Chapter / Chapter III • 54 years old Georges Gilkinet cs (2838/11) Chapter / Chapter IV 55 Georges Gilkinet cs (2838/11) Chapter / Chapter V • 56 years old Georges Gilkinet cs (2838/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u170	Chapter I / Chapitre Irish • 58 – Georges Gilkinet cs (2838/11) Afdeling 1 / Section 1 (n)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u171	Chapter / Chapter II (n) • 69 – Georges Gilkinet cs (2838/11) Afdeling 1 / Section 1 (n)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u172	Chapter / Chapter III (n) • 80 Georges Gilkinet cs (2838/11) Section 1 / Section 1ère (n)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u173	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and on the Rule and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u174	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rule 36.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u175	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 35.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip218x.u176	Colleagues, the services tell me that we need a technical break. I suggest that we resume the meeting in 15 minutes. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, March 15, 2018 at 8.35 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 15 March 2018 at 8.35 p.m.
