ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u1	Colleagues, people from the press, welcome to the Defence Committee. We are launching today the hearings on the file on the replacement of the F-16. We start with the people of the internal and external audit and of the study on the F-16 of the SPO. I would like to welcome General Robberecht, Mrs Schoubs, General Debaene and General Compernol. Last Friday we already received a very comprehensive explanation. That is why we have agreed with the members of the committee to start the questions for this block immediately. I'll open the questioning round. There will be colleagues asking a question to the whole group. However, if someone wishes to ask a specific question to one of the persons present here, it is customary to mention the name and then ask the question. I hope this will be a very serene debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u2	It will remain serene, Madam President. Only yesterday, when we settled the work, we agreed that we would make use of the new rule in this house, in particular the Vestager Rule. If, for example, I have a question for General Robberecht, I would like General Robberecht to answer it immediately, instead of having to answer ten other questions first and only in the final round will you give one guest after another the floor to answer. In short, I would like to ask questions one after one and answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u3	Mr van der Maelen, I understand your observation, but I would prefer to group together all the questions because it is an ordinary hearing. Whoever has a specific question can of course ask it to the panel by simply mentioning the name and then asking the question, but I would prefer not to have questions one after one. This isn't a court of law. It's not even a committee of inquiry, it's an ordinary hearing that people come to voluntarily. I certainly don't want to create the idea of cross-examination. All the questions can certainly be asked, but I want to group them. Then, as they have just said to me, people will be able to think about it quietly in order to find a well-founded answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u4	Madam President, we know that parliamentary control in this matter is hampered by a number of difficulties which have been before us for some time now. This is a very complex dossier, with a lot of finesses, which we politicians try to understand. So I think it would be more efficient if we could ask our questions and ask them one after one and if they could be answered immediately. This has nothing to do with a cross-examination or with a committee of inquiry. However, a lot of questions will be asked here and they cannot drown in one big soup. We really need to be able to put these questions to the people concerned. The only intention is to bring out the truth. I hope and believe that this is the intention of all the Members present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u5	We do not now have any rules of procedure. I would like to begin the hearing. I will have a few more colleagues on the agenda, but then I would like to proceed to the vote and then start the hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u6	Madam President, let us be clear about the tone of the debate! Already yesterday, we tried to create an atmosphere by saying that we could not use all the elements present in the audits. So today we're going to have to do a crazy balancing exercise that is to say that we all have elements to our knowledge but we won't be able to use them. It's already creating a climate! We are being told that for specific questions on very specific files, we will not be able to be sure to get specific answers. There is still no need for a commission of inquiry, Madam Chair, to obtain precise answers! I fully agree with what colleagues are proposing today, namely the possibility of asking specific questions to certain people and receiving specific answers. It is not a question of attending, as usual, a long round table with, then, speakers who will simply answer what they want to answer. I really think we have the right to get very clear answers. That is 15 billion, Madam President! There is no need for a commission of inquiry to obtain specific answers to specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u7	Mr Hedebouw, we have held hearings here in committee many times in the past. There were just questions asked at the time, which were bundled together. We have also always received very precise answers, because the people who have been heard write down the questions and immediately reflect on their answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u8	Madam President, following on from what you have just explained, I would like to make the following point. Mr Hedebouw, you give the impression that by grouping questions, you will not receive a precise answer from the panel present. That's a pretty strong intent process, which I'd rather not be involved in. I propose that, as proposed by the chairman of the committee, the questions be grouped together, as was also discussed yesterday. I also propose that there should not be an introduction by the panel members during the morning, but that we should go directly to our specific questions. I think I can suggest that, if you have not received a sufficiently clear answer from the panel members, you will still be able to receive an answer in a second round of questions to the one specific question for which you apparently remain hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u9	Madam President, Mr Buysrogge, you ask me if I have the impression that we are not answering our questions. I will answer you clearly. Since the beginning of the dossier, we have had that impression. In fact, we are not the only ones in the country who have that impression. We are allowed to consult audits, on which we should not even give anything to the outside world. We therefore have an effective impression that a cover-up is under way, so that everything remains underground. So let us just have a transparent debate. I'm not the only one with that impression.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today for a long and interesting day, which we ourselves have asked for and organised. The generals and colonels are present. I therefore propose that we simply start, instead of having a procedural debate here for another ten minutes on what questions we will be asking, how we will put them and how we will get the answers to those questions. Madam President, I ask you to begin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u11	I give the floor to the Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u12	Madam President, I have three questions. The first question is for Lieutenant General Robberecht. On 22 March, between 10:40 and 11:40, you received a call from the cabinet asking witness Decrop to submit the following sentence: "In the period 16 June and 17 June there were no mail exchanges between those involved and the cabinet chief." Do you confirm this? Second, who made this call to the cabinet? Thirdly, you stated on Friday that General Debaene assisted you in the internal investigation. Do I understand correctly that Mr. Debaene is the boss of General Roelandts and Colonel Letten? So whoever's responsible for the operation of the service has been involved in the internal audit? Finally, is it true that you were asked by a cabinet employee of Minister Vandeput to send a copy of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's e-mails to the Cabinet prior to delivering the results of the internal audit? This is my first set of questions concerning the organisation of the audit. As far as the audit report itself is concerned, I have seen a very interesting overview of mail traffic, of a total of 108 mails. There are two periods that interest me particularly. The first period is the period from 10 May to 19 May. On 10 May, Lieutenant Colonel Decrop sent an e-mail stating that he believes that Lockheed Martin's study of April 2017 is sufficiently important to inform the Minister of Defence and the CHOD. This creates a long series of mail traffic between all those involved that we will hear today and next week. Madam President, if we really want to do our job seriously, then we need to get and see all those e-mails, in order to form an idea whether or not it is true that after that first e-mail through a series of interventions by all the witnesses we will hear, on 19 May a reworked note was issued, which was then summarised by Colonel Letten and others as "unusable" information, that memo of April 2017, is worthless. We want to see that process. I also saw in the audit that between 16 and 18 May there was a series of meetings in the Material Resources department. Did you report on those meetings? I assume that a report has been drawn up on each of these meetings. I also ask that we get those reports to see. At the beginning of February there was a lot of mail traffic. On 5 February I tabled a question which would be discussed in committee on 7 February. I see that on 6 February there is an email from Mr Van Schoenwinkel to Mr Vansina saying that there is much more to this question from Van der Maelen and that this is not an innocent question. He asks the chief of the air force, General Vansina, suggestions regarding the manner of reply. On 6 February, General Vansina sent an e-mail to General Van Pee and forwarded it to Mr Van Schoenwinkel, as guidance. This means that an answer has been given there, which is a guide for the formulation of that answer. Then on 20 March, when the note of 27 April was published, there was an e-mail from Colonel Van Pee to a certain Mr Desert. I don't know his degree. That e-mail says: "Don't let the Minister of Defence change the text of the reply we wrote for him." I want to see that e-mail traffic, too. These are two crucial moments where we can find an answer to the question whether or not the importance of the info from the note of Lockheed Martin of 27 April 2017 has been deliberately manipulated. Secondly, it could indicate what the Minister knew when he replied to my question on 7 February. As far as I am concerned, when Minister Vandeput said at the VRT on 22 March that he could say with his hands on his heart that he knew nothing about the existence of notes that could explain the extension of the F-16's life, serious but serious doubts can be raised about the correctness of that statement. Finally, I shall put my question to General Compernol. Chief of Staff, the latest NATO targets for Belgium from 2030 call for a significantly higher number of new fighter aircraft than 34 to be included in the Belgian fleet. Do I interpret it correctly that the acceptance by the Belgian government of this new target, after a possible first purchase of 34 F-35s, later, for the sake of NATO targets, will oblige us to make another purchase of F-35s?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u13	Madam President, my first question is to Mrs Schoubs. We were able to consult the external audit in the reading room. On Friday, we received the synthesis that was drawn from it. This summary distributed to MPs was important since it was on this basis that the minister communicated for two or three days, until we had access to the external audit. It states that "the investigation showed that, in all three points, the information as described above has no bearing on the current tender documentation for the replacement of the current F-16 fleet". The author of this synthesis is quite assertive. In the external audit that we were able to see, there is something else mentioned. It is a particular exercise not to be able to use something we have all read. I'll try anyway. There could have been the following: I suppose I can do this without having any problems: "Point 2. The memos have no impact on the further course of the ACAP process. Of course, that only applies if the premise of the ACCaP process, based on a certified lifetime of the F-16 of 8 000 hours, is maintained." Of course, what's behind that comma isn't a detail. For a few weeks now, we have been discussing whether this premise is correct. Are we talking about an IT problem, which meant that what was behind the comma was not in the synthesis, or is it a political error? Why is that difference, which is not secondary at all, between the synthesis we have received and the audit itself? After all, do you think it is an effective error that the second part of the sentence was not included in the synthesis itself? With that, we would of course have had a very different debate on Saturday and Sunday. I come to my second question. How did the choice for KPMG as an audit company go? We have already dealt with KPMG through Ms De Block, about the audit of medical homes. However, we are somewhat surprised that this multinational consultancy has often worked in partnership with Lockheed Martin. So I would like to know how this choice was made. A lot of lobbies are involved in this case. Several actors are in contact with the military-industrial community. Therefore, would it not have been wiser to choose another consultancy? My third question will be addressed to you, Mr Robberecht. In the internal audit report, you clearly state: "There is no evidence of the deliberate strategy of senior officers regarding the retention of information against the hierarchy." So you're assertive. You don't write "maybe," but "none, geen." However, when reading the e-mails, it appears that some speakers believe that this is really not the right time to transmit this information "as long as no one thinks that F-16s can fly more than 8,000 hours, because the procurement process is in a crucial phase". How do you link these two aspects: on the one hand, "no indication" and, on the other, a desire not to circulate information that could influence decision-making? I have tried to understand the sentences that are submitted to us and I think I have detected a contradiction. Now, with hindsight, consider that the use of the term "none" was somewhat exaggerated and that you should have resorted to "not so much", "not decisively", etc.- Is that what you're saying? In short, what impression do you get from the audit report? I will start with these questions, Madam President, to avoid being too long and to keep up with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u14	Madam President, I would like to speak on an organizational issue. To my knowledge, the audits were consulted by the various members of the committee. The information they contained was confidential. In my view, it would be appropriate for you to recall that they cannot be disclosed in committee. The questions must remain general. It is therefore out of the question to refer to specific items of the reports that have been consulted. In this connection, I would like to point out that each of the members of the committee present here had to sign an undertaking to respect this procedure. That is why, Madam President, I would like you to remind all colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u15	Mr Thiéry, that is correct, as I said at the committee meeting last Friday. The information is indeed confidential. An instrument of confidentiality has also been signed. I have also noticed here that there is leaking from the confidential notes. I can only point out that anyone who publishes information from confidential notes risks getting a complaint from invited speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u16	Madam President, what is the point of today's exercise if we only have to rely on a partial summary – everyone has been able to see it – which was produced to us in disaster during the parliamentary holidays and which is the truth of the minister? Can we not rely on the texts we have read? We were able to consult the audits yesterday. There are a number of important and serious comments and questions to be asked about these audits. In addition, a series of information is available in the press. These are not leaks, but high-ranking officials who express themselves in them. I think we need to lift this issue right from the start. There is a series of elements of information that do not involve people but rather the operation, decisions, cascades, biases in the examination of the files of future combat aircraft. I therefore think that we should be able to ask specific questions and not general questions. We're not in a living room, we're in Parliament and we're exercising our parliamentary control. There is a series of information that we need to be able to receive. If it is a political money laundering exercise, we must tell ourselves, but then it is no longer an audit exercise. I wish we could do our job properly and seriously. I therefore intend to ask questions which, in any case, are in the public domain today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u17	Mr Dallemagne, I repeat that the information you have been able to access behind closed doors is, of course, confidential. One can ask questions here, but one has to be careful. You also chose to hold a public hearing. That means caution. I assume that the authors of the reports will give an answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u18	Madam President, first of all, I have a number of questions for Mrs Schoubs from the external audit. The picture is being posted that your external audit, Mrs Schoubs, Defence and the Minister, is completely exonerated, but we learned last Friday that you are not actually making a ruling. You do not judge the fact that a number of top military officers have withheld and classified Lockheed Martin's studies and important information as irrelevant. You don't judge that. You're not looking at that. You do not analyse that in substance. That is important because this means that the decision of that small number of top officers to label that information as irrelevant can be contested. We also know from the reports that powerpoint presentations were given from which certain slides were removed if they could nevertheless indicate a possible lifetime extension of the F-16. Information that could roar the purchase and replacement of the F-16 is deliberately held together in as small a circle as possible. The audit does not rule on whether or not that decision is justified. That's essential. That's important. The problem remains. I have some questions for you. Firstly, the external audit report does not quote literal mails. No mails are printed. There's no quoting. There is actually only paraphrasing where the auditors say in their own words what is in a number of e-mails. I find that bizarre because an audit is supposed to put together and reconstruct the pieces of the puzzle so that the Minister and we in Parliament can find out exactly who said what. The external audit report does not allow that. The press has also reported that there has been a contact between Vansina, commander of the Air Force, and Lockheed Martin. Lockheed Martin would have complained or at least noticed that the Belgian Airchief is upset over a possible slope of a lifetime extension. I find it remarkable that the content of that exact contact between Vansina and Lockheed Martin is not literally reflected in your audit report. Secondly, your external audit and the analysis of mail traffic focusses on the period from May 2016 to 19 May 2017. This was imposed on you on 19 May 2017. Why didn't you investigate the weeks after 19 May, since on 19 May 2017 the mail correspondence between the key witnesses was still in full swing between those involved, as the audit shows? E-mails were sent on that particular May 19, 2017. Has there been an answer to that? If so, what exactly was that answer? The further communication with the Defense Department was apparently not investigated by you. Thirdly, exactly how many cabinet employees of Minister Vandeput have you audited? I'm assuming it's going to be a lot of people after all. Fourthly, you audited Colonel Van Pee of the Air Combat Capacity Program Team. Were the other members of that purchasing team also audited? Fifth, were all contacts between the Defence Staff and Lockheed Martin checked during that limited period of May 2016 to 19 May 2017? Sixthly, is it true that you have conducted a forensic investigation into the e-mail traffic on the laptops of a number of key witnesses, a number of those involved, but that you have warned them well ahead of time for two weeks? Of course, that is different from carrying out an immediate forensic investigation and immediately requesting and analysing the laptops of those involved. If there are ten or fourteen days in between, it allows those involved to delete e-mail traffic. It has already been shown from your replies last week that you did not carry out that more in-depth investigation into which e-mails were deleted and what their content was because of lack of time and because the scope might not allow it. That is, of course, problematic. Seventhly, Madam President, you know, and you have also defended it, that last Friday we only received a summary of the external audit from one page. This summary page contains three conclusions. The third conclusion is that Lockheed Martin's studies have no impact on the ongoing procurement process for the replacement of the current F-16 fleet. Period. However, Mrs Schoubs, in the audit report itself, a comma stares at it with another phrase, in particular that Lockheed Martin's studies have no impact on it and do not make a substantial difference to the procurement process, provided that the limit of up to 8 000 hours of flight time is maintained. However, that is exactly what Lockheed Martin has been protesting for years in his internal studies, which were also delivered to the Air Force. Lockheed Martin's studies make a substantial difference and therefore have an impact on the current file. I find it strange that this is not reflected as such in the summary of the audit report that we have received. That's misleading. We were misled on Friday because we did not get the full conclusions of the audit report and the summary. Finally, this question for you. It is a question of detail and I do not know whether you can look up the data immediately. There was a meeting with Lockheed Martin on May 23rd 2016. That was one of the first times that there was talk of a soft or hard SLEP, the possibility of a lifetime extension. Who was present at this meeting? My next questions are addressed to Lieutenant General Robberecht. About the internal audit at the Department of Defense. Lieutenant Colonel Decrop was questioned on March 22, 2018. Who exactly in the cabinet did you receive a phone call asking to add a sentence to the statement of the person concerned, namely that in the period between June 2016 and June 2017 there were no mail exchanges between the person concerned, so Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, and the cabinet of the minister or his head of cabinet? That is, of course, an important sentence, because that sentence is completely out of the question and can even allow Lieutenant Colonel Decrop to be accused of not having directly informed the Minister himself. In the internal audit report of course I will not quote literally any speculation and explain the motivation of Lieutenant-Colonel Decrop to send a number of e-mails. That becomes quite personal: his motivation is put in a bad light. Why is such an almost psychological analysis not made with other stakeholders and interviewees in the internal audit? In my opinion, an internal audit should be business, should combine puzzle pieces and should go into detail in such a way that Parliament, as a supervisory body, can reconstruct, analyse and judge the truth. So I think my question is clear. Lieutenant General Robberecht, I come to my final question for you. Why is there no analysis of mail and telephone traffic included in the report around 6 February this year? There has been a slight contact with the cabinet. In the meantime, therefore, we know that the cabinet was well informed. The Minister had to admit that himself. I note that this is not a problem for the majority; I leave it entirely on their behalf. But we move: there has been a slight contact, the Vandeput cabinet was aware of Lockheed Martin's studies. Mr Robberecht, why was it not further investigated when Minister Steven Vandeput's cabinet employee was informed of the existence of Lockheer Martin's note?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u19	Madam President, I would like to say in advance that it is difficult to ask specific questions if we cannot or cannot quote from the studies. Of course, we will respect the agreements, take into account confidentiality and be cautious. However, it will be difficult to ask specific, specific questions. Mr Robberecht, I have a few questions for you. First, you give an overview of mail traffic in your research. If I consider the comments and titles of the mails, I have to say that a lot of heavy words are used. Have you examined the e-mails yourself? Secondly, you questioned some of the people involved. Have you identified contradictions or inconsistencies in the statements made by those you have questioned? I now come to my questions regarding the Federal Internal Audit Service. You have made a general conclusion. I should like to quote from the summary distributed to the members of the committee last Friday; it is permissible to quote from that. You made a general conclusion, and I take the summary, which was distributed to the committee members last Friday and from which I can quote. "The information should not be forwarded to the level CHOD and MOD." In the following conclusion, you say: "The information has no impact on the current tender file." I'll come back to that later. These are two very essential conclusions. In the real audit we find that you do not appreciate the content of the information contained in the memos. Here you can conclude that the information has no impact on the current file. You will have to explain to me how you draw that conclusion and on which it is based, as the document raises various questions about certain issues. Let me give you an example. At a lecture at the military school they say you can't show slide 18. As an investigator, I would ask what's in that slide and why it shouldn't be released. If you make a substantive appreciation, I would expect you to check on such information. Secondly, you have investigated the mail traffic of certain persons. Did you also check the mailbox of the head of the cabinet and the deputy chief of the cabinet? If you didn't, why not? A third question concerns the timing at which you have actually carried out the investigation. You've been instructed by the Cabinet to do the audit. Do you or do you not exclude that important information has disappeared in the period prior to the assignment? Then I have a question for the chief of staff. Mr Compernol, we can conclude from the documents that there have been regular contacts between the Defence Department and the Cabinet on this dossier and on important investment dossiers. Can we assume that the cabinet was aware of the relevant information from the memos?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u20	Mr Robberecht, as regards the call made during the interrogation of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, did you receive such calls before or during any other interrogation? Mrs. Schoubs, how many cabinet employees of Minister Vandeput have you audited? I have read the external audit and I cannot get rid of the impression that its content does not correspond to the summary we received on Friday. Can you explain that? How do you think that happened? Who made the summary? Did you get the question to make changes in the summary? In view of the comments and the limitations, can you call the audit an audit? I cannot, at least according to the chairman, quote literally from the audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u21	No, according to the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u22	No, according to you, Madam President. For the sake of clarity, I will not quote from it. I'll quote from last Friday's hearing. Mrs. Schoubs, you spoke to me on Friday about examining the mails and the mail files literally about PST files. PST files are Outlook files. You said you got copies of those mail files and that there were also problems getting those copies. I do not see that in the text of the audit. There's an ODF file in there. That's something else. Can you explain that? Mr Debaene, I have a few questions for you about the audit. One of the documents states that Lockheed Martin has already made an estimate of 16 F-16/Block-15 devices before updating. Can you tell me which country that is? One of the documents also states that Belgium can request price information about the lifetime extension of our fleet. How is that consistent with the summary of the documents, which states that the extension is not possible? Can you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u23	Madam President, I feel rather comfortable with the confidentiality obligations that have been imposed on us, not without regret that these documents and audits are not made public as we asked for at length and widely yesterday. I feel particularly comfortable because what interests me and what interests my group today is not included in the audits. That's what we can't see in the dark rooms. These are the questions that we believe have not been asked. However, these issues are the subject of today's meeting and we are dealing at length in the Defence Committee around this EUR 15 billion market. First, we wonder why the three key issues we are concerned about were not raised in this audit. These three questions are as follows. First, has the replacement market for fighter aircraft – which, I would remind you, is a EUR 15 billion market and which engages our country for decades, for several generations – been manipulated or not? We can't find that question again. Second, if it was manipulated, by whom and why? We can't find that question again. Third, was the Minister of Defence's office aware of, or asked if, the market had been manipulated? Did the Minister of Defence know or seek to know? The same Minister of Defence has constantly told us in committee, throughout the last few months and in the answers to the questions asked by all parliamentarians, that the decision on the aircraft replacement contract was a collegial decision of the government. Did the government, one or more of its members, know or have it sought to know whether this EUR 15 billion market, which, I repeat, involves Belgium for several generations, had been manipulated? Nor do I find this issue in these audits. It is challenging not to find these three questions, especially since, as of May 2016, a member of the N-VA was questioning the Minister of Defence. This member was not the least since he was the Chair of the Defence Committee. She questioned the Minister of Defence on secret reports that would circulate and relate to the replacement of the F-16s. On the other hand, several parliamentarians have asked questions about this F-16 market; I was one of them. Many of us have done so for several months. The first question that concerns me concerns the lack of curiosity of the cabinet of the minister, the minister, and also of the whole government, for this EUR 15 billion market. We know that hearings have taken place, even if they are not even in Dutch in the audits. We don't have a list of people being interviewed, either in the defence or in the cabinets. I'm saying "offices." Indeed, I think that the Minister of Defence should not have been the only one involved in the debate for a EUR 15 billion market. Which cabinet members were interviewed? We don't know that either. We have learned that hearings of members of the Defence have been conducted in the presence of the military hierarchy. I find this rather surprising and wonder about their objective, when we know that one of the objectives of these audits was to shed all light, including on the military decision-making chain. It's even more than "understood"; I should say "essentially". The purpose was to know how decisions were made, how choices were made, what documents were requested, and how these documents were transferred to the political world. Indeed, even if the majority is trying to divert the debate, the question here is whether political responsibility is involved. We also have a list of e-mails in these audits, including dates, senders and objects. It's not well printed. However, this is important for such essential documents. We do not have the content of the e-mails, even in the annex. Have you had access to these e-mails or, like us, have you merely submitted an audit report on the basis of dates, senders and objects? How did you get access to these e-mails? Is this unexpectedly on the occasion of a seizure? Did you have access to computers or gsms or did you have to settle for what you were given? Yesterday, the minister spoke a sentence that is very worrying to my group. He stated that the internal audit belongs to the Defence and that the Defence does what it wants. On the basis of these elements, in your opinion, how can Parliament exercise its duty of democratic control over defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u24	Madam President, I would essentially like to address the authors of the internal and external audits. In principle, an audit is an impartial instrument. We rely on technicians, on people who are above the melee, which makes it possible to have an objective truth. This is what we are looking for through an audit exercise. However, I have the feeling that we are far from the point of view in this matter. First of all, I would like to repeat the sequence of the calendar. At the beginning of March, we were told that we could not have an audit until April 18 and, at the beginning of April, at the beginning of parliamentary leave, we were told in the press that the internal audit would clear the minister. That's for the first sequence. The general climate is given. No fault has been committed, there is no reproach to be made to the military hierarchy and to the minister. The team working on the replacement of the F-16 was re-established, without asking whether Parliament has a say and even if the government has a say. All this is done in catini during Easter holidays. Second sequence: last Friday, we are again served a story with a summary. My colleagues have already said on several occasions how biased this summary of the two audits was. I am speaking here, in particular, to the army listener because it is an extremely valuable instrument in democracy. General, don't you feel like you're being instrumentalized in a political money laundering exercise? And I am particularly interested in auditing the army because it is an extremely important and extremely valuable instrument in democracy. Indeed, the sequence, the climate that is installed, the approximations and the counter-truths that are publicly given make it possible to establish the idea that, in the end, there would be no need for debate and questions, or even possible sanctions in relation to how we were manipulated. Don't you have the impression that this is the deviousness of a major defence governance instrument? In particular, I would stress that, in this internal audit, I am absolutely speechless when I read what is called an audit. It's about ten pages. Half of the pages explain the internal functioning of the Physical Resources Department and the Systems Division. I think it's useful because it's important, but there are finally very few pages that make up what we call an audit. I don't know who calls him that. What about the heart of today's question, what happened in the Systems Division? What were the differences of opinion, the differences of opinion, the problems that were raised by each other? This audit does not tell us anything else except that Colonel Decrop at some point wanted the minister, the chief of defence, to be alerted and that he himself felt that this famous Lockheed Martin simulation could have an impact on the date of acquisition of new aircraft. We are not told any of this! We will learn from the external audit that there have been difficulties and disagreements. There's nothing about the content of the messages. On the other hand, there is an attack in good standing aimed at the author of these questions in which he is disqualified from the outset and considered to be uncredible. I honestly find that this is an exercise which is far from what could be called an audit and which I do not think is objective at all. It certainly does not allow parliamentarians that we are to have information about what has happened. Fortunately, once again, there was the external audit to tell us that there were differences in appreciation, that Colonel Decrop had issued opinions that were not those of his hierarchy. We wouldn't have learned it through your exercise. Frankly, I wonder whether we should not conduct a substantive exercise to determine whether we still need to call this an audit or whether it is an instrument – it may make sense, for me, it is not what we are looking for here – either to consolidate the hierarchy or to protect a particular person, but in any case not an audit instrument. This is a first general remark, but I really think that we need to think about it in the future. I weigh my words: it is important that we have instruments that allow us to analyse things seriously, without bias. This partisan side seems totally unacceptable to me. More specifically, it is known that in May 2016, Captain Boeykens is participating in a meeting with other European countries with F-16s, and that it deals with the structure of the F-16s. Lockheed Martin proposes to carry out a study on the ageing state of the F-16 structure, with a view to assessing whether they can possibly exceed 8,000 hours. When he returned, he spoke to his superior, Colonel Decrop. It is Colonel Decrop who makes the decision on this study. Stop me if I'm wrong. Is that him? It is the information that is public: it is he who makes the decision of this study. This is important to know, because when they receive the results of this study in April 2017, it is called into question that Colonel Decrop, who was authorized to commission this study - this is his approach, his initiative - can send an e-mail to different people to alert them to the results of this study. It is believed that he did not have this authorization and that he should have referred it to his hierarchy, particularly Colonel Letten. Is it normal that someone who has permission to sponsor a study does not have permission to disseminate the analysis? This is an important issue, because it has been called into question for this reason. Another question was whether the Minister and the Chief of Defence should be alerted. That seems to me to be a very legitimate question. It's still a serious case. Maybe it bothers some people. We're at the moment when the RfGP was just launched. In fact, Colonel Van Pee obviously intervenes. Is it normal for him to intervene? He calls Lockheed Martin. Colonel Van Pee, who is the boss of the ACCaP, in principle has nothing to do with this story. He intervened with Lockheed Martin to ask them whether it was normal for them to carry out studies on the possibility of prolonging the F-16s, whether this caused disorder, whether they wanted to sell new aircraft or whether current aircraft were being extended. Do you find that normal? Shouldn't your audit have included a remark that it was absolutely not acceptable for the CCAaP boss to intervene on a file that does not concern him, which is also through Lockheed Martin? Third question. This is reflected in everything we've seen in these audits. Don't you think there's some kind of endogamy? We're in a big family, we see it. Lockheed Martin, the US Air Force, the ACCaP, the Systems Division, there is a spirit of camaraderie. Everyone sees each other, is called, etc. Is this not also what is deeply problematic? There's some kind of confusion. It is no longer known whether we are in a position to have an objective judgment on the need to buy aircraft immediately and on the fact that it should be fatally American aircraft. We're family, we've always known each other, we've always been at the same meetings all over the world. We're like "ass and shirt"! I saw e-mails: "Your colleague, why is he launching a study? Yours, why is it spreading this information?" Shouldn't you have noticed in your audits that there was a fundamental difficulty and an impossibility for many of these soldiers to step back? This poses a difficulty when it comes to choosing calmly and objectively whether to buy combat aircraft immediately and whether to buy them from the Americans. These are some of the questions I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u25	Madam President, first of all, I have a number of questions for General Compernol, the CHOD. The third research question of the internal investigation conducted within the Defense Department was who decided not to transmit the information in the hierarchical and functional chain and thus not to inform the CHOD. That's a fair question. In the summary of the answer to the third research question I read that there was an email with technical advice on 10 May. However, we also know that Colonel Decrop's e-mail also suggested informing the CHOD and the MOD. That has happened twice so far, by the way. An e-mail from Colonel Van den Put also raised the political sensitivity. My question is this. This has been stopped as can be seen in the summary. Do you know why it was stopped? The fact that the information would not have been relevant seems to me to be a very weak excuse not to pass the information on, although twice at colonel level it was suggested to pass it on. Do you have an explanation for that? Another important question is the following. Would you rather have been aware of that information? Secondly, the recommendations that we can read in the summary state that the inter-power project group has come together very little or not in the dossier and that it would be appropriate to give more attention and impact to the inter-power project group. Will you do that? What are your plans in that respect? I have another question for General Robberecht. The overall conclusion of the summary states that the whole problem is about the correct estimation of the value and usability of the predictive mathematical model. When I continue to read and base myself on the summaries and on what I was able to look at afterwards, it seems to me that there is a major disagreement between Colonel Decrop and his first hierarchical chief, Colonel Letten. Can you confirm that? Did that disagreement also emerge in the internal audit? Finally, I have one question for the FIA. It is reported that Colonel Decrop downloaded information from DG MR's secure website when he was no longer employed at DG MR. It says: "FIA cannot assess whether such access can still be justified'. Did you carry out further research or ask the people of the Defense Department to investigate that? After all, we need to know whether that was a conscious or unconscious access and whether his account had not yet been closed so that he could still have access to that data. What else did you do with that information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u26	Madam President, I will be brief and I will go straight to the point. Mrs Schoubs, I congratulate you on your 32-page report, which, last Friday, was summarized in both national languages in one page. It was very interesting to read you. In this audit report, you managed to explain how the decision was made not to submit a crucial lifespan report on F-16s to CHOD, Mr. Compernol, and to MOD, the Minister of Defence. Mrs Schoubs, I have a specific question for you. In the unfolding of the actions you analyzed, two dates seem crucial. The first is on 16 May 2017 and the second is on 18 May 2017, that is, the moment when, within DG MR, the various military personnel in charge decide whether or not to inform themselves of the appropriateness of this Lockheed Martin study. Have you had access to the minutes of these meetings? You certainly had access to the e-mails that followed, but your audit report does not linger, as my colleague Wouter De Vriendt said, on the merits of the case, whether or not Lockheed Martin's study called into question the public procurement. Since it was decided at that time and then Colonel Letten informed his hierarchy that this study was waardeloos, worthless, I would have wanted to know if you had access to the minutes of these two meetings. The first meeting, on May 16, was held in the absence of Lieutenant-Colonel Decrop, while the May 18 meeting was held in his presence. It's important because that's where it's going and that's where – and you validate this decision in your audit – Colonel Letten decides to block information about the existence of a memo that says that F-16s can fly beyond 8,000 hours. It was at that time, on technical or even technical bases, that Colonel Letten's political decision took place and, with him, the entire hierarchy of the Air Component of the army. It was decided that neither the CHOD nor the MOD should be informed of this important memo. Furthermore, can you tell us whether Lieutenant-Colonel Decrop took the initiative to request the writing of this memo to Lockheed Martin without warning his hierarchy? The latter, in other words, the military directly above him – I address Lieutenant General Debaene in particular – was she aware that he had taken the initiative to ask Lockheed Martin for this study, which was, moreover, very helpful? Requesting such a study from a manufacturer who is the world's largest arms supplier is not an insignificant act. Was DG MR's hierarchy aware, and how far, of this initiative to request a study on the feasibility of flying these F-16s beyond 8,000 hours? I would also like to ask a simple question to the head of the armed forces, Mr Compernol. General, would you like to know about Lockheed Martin's memo? In view of your function, would you have found it normal to be made aware of the content and conclusions of this memo, of its reading by DG MR and of this initiative to contact Lockheed Martin to see if these F-16s could fly longer, as was mentioned by Lockheed Martin at an international meeting bringing together Defenses from around the world who fly with F-16s, the managers of this material and the aforementioned company, which took place in May 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u27	It is indeed a difficult situation. We have all read those e-mails, but the question is what is being put forward. It's hard to find a balance. Maybe that's easier for someone from CD&V, because we're used to keeping our heads cool in those circumstances and practicing ourselves daily in that art. I would like to express my disappointment at the opposition, which promised a darkroom. I stood there, against my custom, half an hour in advance, and things were disappointing. It was something completely different. We must not always believe the opposition. I'll come to the point and try to respect whatever I signed as a good schoolboy. I do think there are a number of political comments in those e-mails. In itself, that's good news. Some say military are stupid, but they're not. Those military personnel have a good estimate of the documents. There are all kinds of comments that say that this is a politically sensitive matter. I do not read the thesis that is occasionally put forward, that it is a technical matter that the politicians have nothing to do with and that it will be technically cleared up. I read very clearly, without quoting from the e-mails, that people were absolutely aware of at least the political connotation, the political dangers, of that dossier. In connection with this, I wonder why exactly that was not sent up. On the one hand, there is the ACAP, the project group for the replacement of the F16s, where, I believe, it was very explicitly agreed that the information would not be brought up because they wanted to protect the procedures and to keep confidential what was happening, so that it would not suddenly come out and procedural errors would be made. On the other hand, there is the DG MR, the normal structure of General Debaene, where, I believe, that was not the case. But what do I see? I notice that the information did not go up there either, although it was possible in itself, because it was not specifically protected. So the question is, why is that? I can't believe our military respected the law. Again, I'm not looking for sanctions, but between the law and what I called beyond the law, there's a big difference. Then it's about the deontology, the corporate culture of Defense, and I read that there's no deontological code there about the disclosure of information. Does this mean that our soldiers will be left in the dark a little? They must therefore follow the procedure, and if it is not to be brought out, they will not do so and everything will remain confidential. But when does a soldier have to bring out certain information? There is a lack of a deontological code. Lieutenant General Robberecht, what is your view on this? We have to learn from this one way or the other. In the meantime, it is clear to all neutral observers that such facts cannot be repeated and that clear political dossiers must come to Parliament. As a member of the majority, I think that we should have known that and that we should have gotten those notes. How will we avoid such incidents? This requires a deontological code, so that what is perceived by someone as politically sensitive information gets to Parliament. We can discuss this behind closed doors, in confidence. In any case, you can count on us to respect that confidentiality. However, this information must come to Parliament. Finally, I will carefully express myself, read a recommendation in a 2009 military note on the individual aircraft tracking (IAT) whereby each aircraft is monitored individually in terms of flight hours. It's not just about the effective flight hours, it's about what happened to them. After all, there is clearly a big difference in the wear and tear of an aircraft between a wild chase and a quiet patrol flight. That number of hours is converted into equivalent hours and the individual aircraft tracking gives an indication of wear and tear. Of course, public opinion focuses greatly on the question of whether the aircraft can fly longer and whether the bodywork can last longer. However, there is also of course a pendant of individual aircraft tracking. What if some of our aircraft have been flying particularly wildly, do they pass the 8 000 hours, which have been certified by the manufacturer? One may have a fire insurance policy, but that doesn't alter the fact that your house may have burned down. So I'm interested to know if there's a risk to our military, as certain planes aren't being tracked. Only a part of our planes are equipped with trackers. That question is addressed to all the military here. Is there a risk that some of our aircraft may have flown in such a way that they suddenly crash or suddenly have technical problems, because if they were calculated in equivalent hours, they would be at risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good thing that we have just decided to take the questions together, without necessarily provoking colleagues from the opposition. We see that we are repeating ourselves, and this is even more important because of the bundling of questions, we can hope that we will soon have a coherent story in our answer. I certainly look forward to finding out the truth, because that is what we all want. Mrs Schoubs, the impression is given by a number of people, not by everyone, that you are firmly constrained in the space you have been given to act, both in terms of time and content. I would like to address this with two specific questions. Who exactly determined the perimeter of your investigation and was you free to decide for yourself who you were talking to or not? With respect to the dates, it is suggested that everything has been erased and that is more. Did you get a look at everything you wanted to see? Have you been able to catch those questioned in lies? Have you, in other words, felt that they wanted to withhold certain information or certain things from you? Have you been in contact with Lockheed Martin and, if so, with whom and what were the exact conclusions? I also have a rather specific question for Lieutenant General Robberecht. Mr De Vriendt says that we are moving: first there was no contact with the cabinet, then there was contact. It is already insinuated that the memo was also effectively in the hands of the cabinet. In the public document, I read that, in preparing the answer to an oral question, the existence of a document was mentioned orally. The document itself is therefore not a matter for the cabinet. The public document states: "The unusability of the results of the simulation was also explained orally." What exactly is that supposed to mean? Finally, I have a rather general question for the Chief of Staff. General, how will you proceed with the recommendations and conclusions in the various reports?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u29	Madam President, I have had the opportunity to hear from my colleagues from the majority and the opposition. I regret to have heard that the majority was trying to divert the debate. I would like to make it clear here that, as a majority or opposition, there is no point in trying to divert the debate! The debate is here today! From experience, I know that we do not always agree on the assessment of the data provided to us, but the debate is there! I note that, in the minds of some, there is a will to demonize the debate. [[It's even more serious.]] Ultimately, it has become usual – and not only in the field of defence – to systematically try to reach the minister responsible for the facts for which we are trying to create a scandal. I register falsely in relation to this approach. That is not the way we make good policy. I'm even going further. I hear about political money laundering, but there is no question of trying to cover anyone politically. We want perfect transparency. Of course, transparency can be interpreted differently by each other, but it is also normal, when ministers are attacked in front of each other and they are tried to carry certain responsibilities without proof, that there is a willingness to know exactly what happened as a result of the debate, the supplementary information and the audits. I hear it's going to cost the state and taxpayers $15 billion. One specialist, now retired, said in a well-known newspaper: "Over the course of my career, I have had the opportunity to interact with a lot of pilots and I have seen fifty of them disappear in the performance of their duties". This is a fundamental element because, in addition to the amount of investment, our military must be allowed to work in a professional and safe manner. The strikes carried out by our air force are recognized by the entire military forces at the global level. We must consider the safety, efficiency, and above all the respect and integrity of our pilots. That being said, certain issues remain, of course, pending in relation to the audits. Without going into detail, since, as my colleagues have said, no specific element will emerge from what we have read, I have a question for Mrs Schoubs. In the context of the mission entrusted to you, have you experienced any specific pressure on either side in such a way that you have not been able to carry out your work in full transparency and freedom? If so, who were these pressures coming from? My question is very clear, but I would like to receive a very clear answer too. This is fundamental because, if there has been pressure, I can acknowledge that some members of the opposition may be right about the report. On the other hand, if there has been no pressure, there is no continuous criticism of the work done. Criticism without evidence is easy. This is a fundamental element: have you been under pressure and, if so, on whose part? The question has already been asked, but I would like to touch on another point. Would it not have been interesting to interview the previous Chief of Staff, Mr. Van De Voorde? Obviously, he was the basis of the case. He worked on it for three years. Could you give us a reason why this person wasn't interviewed? It is our responsibility that the Air Component has, in this case, worked in a very specific and closed manner. Other components exist, as everyone knows. In all logical sense, at some point there must be exchanges between the components. Everyone needs to be aware of how files evolve, especially those that commit large amounts. Don't you think there's something abnormal about this, a negligent thing? This question is also specific. In the end, it seems that no one is guilty of anything. The information was not relevant enough to go back to the minister's house. It's very delicate. When I am told that something is or is not relevant, as a general rule, I try to find out why. I could ask Mr Robberecht that question too. What do you think are the real criteria, which can be used to determine whether or not the information you receive is relevant, and when it should be passed on to the higher level, or at any given ministerial level? It's fundamental. If there are no objective criteria, we will have to think about it for the future, so that this situation is no longer represented. Then I'd like to ask the Chief of Defence a question. Without revealing the content of the audits, we know that several very specific recommendations have been made. Do you consider them relevant? Do we have to take action? If so, according to what timing? If they are relevant, I would not like to see anything done in a year's time to remedy the problems. Another question is for the Armed Forces. We ourselves, as parliamentarians, have been the target of some form of lobbying on this replacement issue. Personally, and I dare say here, I didn't want to meet anyone. Is it good or not? The future will tell us. In any case, it is certain that it is irreproachable. Indeed, when you meet an interested party, you must of course meet them all. We also know that the information provided by some is not always correct. Therefore, it seems to me that a parliamentarian must seek the information, but not be specifically the subject of a lobby, in order to be able to support his own vision of a dossier and then make a decision in his soul and conscience. Then I ask you the question: have you been subjected to the lobbying of one company, another or all? In this case, and this is a fundamental aspect, if lobbying there has been, it means that it is allowed. If he wasn't, we could blame you for making a mistake. What are the rules on lobbying available to the army to ensure that it does not exceed its right to meet with a particular supplier? It may be a somewhat basic question, but it is fundamental. If these rules have not been established in advance, they will have to be promulgated in the future. And then, to consider the renewal of the fleet, a briefing note of November 9, 2015 was clearly used. I would therefore like to ask a question which seems to me quite logical. To my knowledge, this note has not been updated. However, we continue to work on that basis. Would it not have been interesting to update this note in order to be able to make decisions based on the latest information, be it technical or otherwise? Finally, an annex is attached to the audit. I'm not going to reveal it. This is an analysis of the impact of Lockheed Martin's memos on the timing of the replacement and on the 2015 note I just mentioned. I see that this annex was prepared by Mr. Van Pee. I have a question, maybe a little tricky. Shouldn't we have allowed this analysis to be done externally so that Mr. Van Pee - and I'm not saying there's been any influence - for taking sides for one or the other? This is important because here too, if one finds that there has been a bias, it will have to be remedied for the future. These are basically the first questions I had to ask. Of course, I expect precise answers from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u30	Madam President, I will be brief. I, too, really want to confine myself to the federal audit. I have already asked a specific question in this capacity on Friday, but since we have a little more time here, I would like to come back to this federal audit. As is known, the credibility of an audit depends primarily on the conditions under which it is conducted or authorized. My colleague just talked about pressure. He's absolutely right. I would just like to go back to those conditions. I've done a lot of audits. When I was auditing a service, I came into the service, looked at all the documents there was, and I myself chose the documents that I was going to analyze a little more in depth. Here, in view of the audit and what you said in part also on Friday, we have the impression that the Defence has provided you with a whole series of documents. We specifically talked about the e-mails on Friday. You've had a whole series of e-mails but you haven't had access to all the e-mails, which is a little disturbing. I do not question the quality of your work at all, but rather the conditions under which this work must have been done. My questions are clear again. Do you feel that you have had access to all the documents? Were any of the documents you requested refused you? You confirmed Friday, and that's important, that you didn't have security clearance. The army could possibly have fallen behind this lack of security accreditation so as not to give you the documents. Do you feel that you have had complete and transparent access to all the data? Have you received all the documents you requested? Or have there been any refusals? On what basis? In the end, did you feel that you had control of the file in its entirety when you wrote the conclusions of this audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u31	Madam President, in addition to a few interesting questions, I have heard quite a few suspicions here. We are talking about money laundering here, but that only happens when there is something black. If that is the starting point, then we do not need to hold hearings, because then the decision has already been taken. I think the starting point should be that everything is white, except when it is proven to be black. I will listen with great interest to the answers. I have one more question to add. They are hearings, whereas until now it has actually been a hearing. I shall therefore confine myself to one question to General Compernol. Mr. General, is there a whistle-blower arrangement in the Defense Department? If so, how does it work? Is there any indication in this case that this would have been used?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u32	A lot of questions were asked. I give the floor to Mr Generals and Mrs Schoubs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u33	Madam President, thank you for the opportunity to answer the questions. I'd like to start by sketching the two timelines that revolve around the memo. I think they are important in this dossier and they will answer a large part of the questions. There is a first timeline, which revolves around the replacement of the F-16. That timeline started a long time ago, even with the previous government. In any case, I read in the government agreement of this government: "The government will take a decision that will allow Belgium to maintain a capacity of fighter aircraft in the long term in the light of the announced replacement of the F-16." This declaration in the coalition agreement gave rise to an overview, a document which was transmitted by the minister's cabinet and was discussed in the various working groups, inter-kabinets working groups and parliamentary committees, I assume, in which all the options for continuing air combat capacity were placed side by side. I refer to the November 2015 document in which the extension of the F-16 has been renewed, in which the lease has been renewed, in which the transfer to a mixed fleet has been renewed and in which the purchase of second-hand devices has been renewed. This document gave rise to a decision of the core, a political decision, to replace the F-16s. This is confirmed in the Strategic Vision, the preamble of which was approved on 29 June 2016. The actual document of the Strategic Vision is the policy document used by the Minister to give guidelines to the Defence Staff. That document takes back the importance of air combat capacity, proposes the different scenarios in which we will operate and says that we are going to replace the F-16s. The preliminary draft programme law is adopted on 20 October 2016. The Programme Act sets out the timing and budgets for replacing the major investments and therefore confirms the investments in the Strategic Vision. That is another political decision. Moreover, this preliminary draft law will be adopted in Parliament on 23 May 2017 and is therefore the law for military programming. On 17 March 2017, the procedure for replacing the F-16, following the approval of the application by the government, will start with publication of the RfGP on the Internet. In other words, on 17 March 2017, all decisions regarding the Defence Staff were taken to replace the F-16. The extension of the lifetime of the F-16 is no longer an option for the Defence Staff. Going against that would be political business. We implement the guidelines we get from our cabinet. A second interesting timeline is that of the management of the F-16 fleet. This management of the fleet means that a number of people are working to take the best possible conditions on the aircraft we now have until the end of their lifespan. That timeline starts sometime in May 2016 and has already been discussed a few times with a meeting where Lockheed Martin says they have a model force structure projection and that they are willing to make that model available to the countries that want to use it. In November 2016, Lockheed Martin himself proposed to apply this to Belgium, knowing that we will follow up on our aircraft so that we can determine which aircraft should fly more, which aircraft should fly less, which devices we will use for demonstrations and which devices we will use in operations. In January 2017, it is said that we are interested in this study, because we can compare it with the data we have from the Netherlands Air and Space Institute, which is used for the monitoring of the aircraft. In April 2017, we will receive the memo you have received in the meantime. Indeed, that memo says that from a structural point of view it is translated that in a number of hours of flight time there are still possibilities for the F-16. That memo also says: warning, this only applies when you have all the data, according to the ENSB09001. At the moment, that is of less importance. It is a document that you have been able to look into in Parliament. The document also says: you must have all the data, the whole lifespan, and you must be able to monitor individually at least 90% of your fleet what happened to those aircraft. This information comes from the equipment manager, not in the ACCaP program which, by the way, is already in the process of carrying out the assignment and actually no longer has any contact with the outside world. There is an engineer with more than 25 years of experience F-16, who gets the memo and looks through the glasses of the administrator who has to keep his planes in the air. He is also in a mindset that the political decision has been made to replace the aircraft. Extending is not an option anymore. The procedure has been initiated with a political decision, and in principle it cannot intervene in that procedure. When I look at that memo, I find that it looks at a certain part aspect of a possible lifetime extension. In other words, he only looks at the metallic fatigue of the structure and nothing else. We do not look at corrosion; we do not see whether the F-16s will still be operationally effective, whether radars, communications, etc. will still be suitable. We're not talking about these questions. I am convinced that it is in these circumstances that the colonel in charge of the management of the equipment in question made a defensible decision saying that it is information that he uses for the management of the aircraft, but that is no longer to be used in the purchase of the new aircraft. One might wonder whether a colonel at this level is competent in this matter and whether he has the right to make such a decision. I remind you that Defence is an organization that employs about 30,000 people. She performs various missions. It's bombing over Iraq. She is in the service of the Burn Centre at the Military Hospital, which makes skin transplants. It is demining in the Baltic Sea. She supports the police. She has her own university. All this to tell you that Defence is a very complex organization. On the other hand, after looking at the indicator, I found that 500,000 to 600,000 documents are circulating within Defence each year. If you want to manage such an organization, you have to trust the competent people who, at their level, know how to make decisions and know what to do with the information they receive. If I had known better, I would have liked to know, I would have known, we probably wouldn't be here today. However, that is not relevant. However, it is relevant that, on the basis of the information available to it, the equipment manager has decided not to forward that information further and that I consider that decision to be justified. Mr van der Maelen, you are asking whether the NATO Defence Targets will mean that we will still have to buy aircraft in the future. Now, the NATO Defence Planning Process is a process in which NATO examines the capabilities that countries must have to meet in the future the threats that arise. Agreements are made and capacity burdens are distributed on the basis of reasonable challenge, assessing whether the country can cope with these challenges and whether it is a fair Burden Sharing. Indeed, it is true that some of the targets that Belgium has received reach beyond the Strategic Vision. Its implementation has been studied and we have considered whether or not we can apply these targets in the short or long term. Some of those targets are in the Strategic Vision, some of them are out of it. Whether or not we will achieve these targets in the future is a political decision. I strongly believe that the increase in the number of fighter planes, firstly, as a target, falls outside the Strategic Vision and, secondly, will once again be the subject of a political debate. Mr Dallemagne, I come back to a comment you made. You have alluded to it several times, already last Friday and still today. This "internal audit" is in fact not an internal audit but an internal administrative investigation. It's different. You were able to read in a newspaper, De Morgen, not to mention it, but it was taken up by all the media without wondering, that this investigation had fled and was already in De Morgen. I can tell you that at the time this article was published, the four copies of this investigation were on my desk. There are only four copies at this time, unless copies have been made available. It was still on my desk. De Morgen writes some things, but I don't think we should believe everything we read in the papers. Besides, if you compare the information you now have with the article in De Morgen, you will see that it does not match. There was no leak. The investigation was not distributed to newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u34	Still, people have passed on information to De Morgen to provide a media climate; the one we have known since then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u35	That's what De Morgen says.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u36	This has in any case been a great media success.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u37	The information they provided is not correct information. I believe that by drawing the picture, I have answered many questions. However, there are still some questions about the recommendations. Mr Thiéry, you asked the question, Mr Buysrogge, too. Yesterday I received a letter from the Minister asking me to take action on the recommendations. I can tell you this happened, and we're studying them. I can find myself in these recommendations. In the short term, a number of actions have been requested. These are in progress. In the long term, I must propose, in the coming month, an action plan to implement these recommendations. Mr De Roover, you had a question about the whistleblower status. There is no formal whistleblower status within the Defense Department. We are, like everyone else, subject to the law of 15 September 2013, which says that it is free to have an internal central hotline, but that people should always have access to an external hotline, being the federal Ombudsman. We do have a complaints service where everyone can deal with their general complaints, but if you ask for whistleblower and integrity violations, then I have to admit that this does not exist internally. At the moment, people can contact the Complaints Management department, which may be able to pass on the complaints or ask people to go to the federal ombudsdienst. What we will do, and that is one of the short-term recommendations, is to make that clearer, so that it is clear to people that there is no internal hotline, but that they can go to the federal ombudsmen service. I think I've answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, I have noted that a number of questions that were discussed on Friday have come back, more specifically questions about the distinction between audit and internal investigations, questions about a note to be signed and questions about General Debaene's presence. I answered these questions on Friday and I will give you a reading of my answer, as you can read in the report of the committee meeting on Friday. I also made it very clear at that time, in order to avoid misunderstandings, that I conducted an internal investigation and not an internal audit, which is subject to International Internal Audit Regulations. This may escape a number of Members, but that is an essential distinction. I just said that because Mr Schoubs, with her service since 2 January 2018, has taken over the audit activities for many Federal Public Services. Those FPS don't have an internal audit service in the federal government's organization anymore. We have subscribed to it and have concluded a cooperation protocol. Why the presence of General Debaene? The Inspector General I've been running has been functioning since the beginning of this year. For reasons of efficiency, we opted for a small service. We have not chosen to replace a great service with another great service. The investigations therefore involve the other departments of staff, depending on the nature of the investigation. Depending on the expertise required, that staff department is called upon to play the supporting role. In the present case, it was very quickly apparent that the DG MR would be asked to provide support for this research quickly, on the one hand, because the problem was with DG MR staff, on the other, because of the technicality of the file, for which the know-how was available to DG MR technicians. For reasons of efficiency and speed, because they didn't want a report in three or six months but rather quickly, it was then chosen to ask General Debaene, in consultation with the Chief of Defense, to provide a supporting role in this investigation. There were a number of questions about the signature of a note on 22 March. I think the Minister also replied in committee last Friday. At that time, indeed, Lieutenant Colonel Decrop was asked to sign a note, because it appeared that the question that was put to him was very relevant at that time. The question was indeed asked by telephone contact with the cabinet. Who gave that to me over the phone? The Minister's personal assistant, Mr Mario Engels. However, the very precise question to which you referred was asked not only to Lieutenant Colonel Decrop but also to Colonel Letten. I also said last Friday that I contacted the Legal Service to see what framework I could ask this question which was forwarded to me by telephone. In the context of an administrative preliminary investigation, I was able to reassure this question from our legal service, and I could also have it acted in writing and ask them if they would like to sign it with my message to them that they had no obligation to sign it. They therefore had the absolute freedom to do or not to do so, which is recorded in the declaration. Therefore, as stated in some of the questions, there was not an "exposition" that had to be acted on. No, a question was asked that was written down in writing. The answer to that question was acted on. So it's not about putting statements in someone's mouth. It was insinuated that statements were made on paper that were not made, this is not true. That didn't happen. Furthermore, there was a question about the conclusion that there were no indications. Why did I come to the conclusion that there were no clues? It was not quoted, as was mistakenly said, from the report, because in the summary I gave on a research question, it literally states that no evidence of a deliberate maneuver was found, so you should not pull it out of context to withhold information from the hierarchy. The report, when you read it, gives a little more explanation about the context and the nuances in the question why I draw that conclusion. I can give an example of such a nuance, without damaging the confidentiality of the document. They've been talking about slides from a briefing. Some time ago there was talk of a briefing at the top of the army, in which information was withheld. Well, you can read in the report what briefing it was about, the nuance in it and the context in which those statements were given. So that briefing at the top of the army never took place. Mr De Vriendt asked a precise question about telephone contact. I think I answered that. It was also asked why "this is precisely the reason of confidentiality" the reason suddenly became personal. That's your interpretation. There is an investigation into the reasons for a possible interpersonal conflict that could be at the root of it. The confidentiality of an internal report has been chosen to avoid an inappropriate use that could harm the performance of, among other things, my mission. In the context of an internal investigation, when individuals provide answers that are in privacy, it is not intended to make them public out of context, without nuance. That's why I made the internal investigation confidential. Mr De Vriendt, you asked in a question that you did not see an analysis of the telephone, oral contact on 8 February between Colonel Letten and the Director Budget and MR. That analysis was eventually included in my summary. It was discussed last Friday. If you have more questions about this, you will be able to ask them to the person concerned, in particular what telephone contact there was and what the content of that contact was. Mr Yüksel, you had a very precise question about slide 18. I replied to that question. As regards the inconsistencies concerning the interventions in the various interviews that have been conducted, I have to say that I have not found any contradictions in the end. The way in which a timeline is worked is that a timeline is created. You've been able to see through that timeline. An overview is given. The annex is called 'Timeline' and not 'Repertory of all kinds of mails'. A timeline is therefore being built up so that specific questions can be asked during the interviews. After the interviews a certain reduction and a certain decision will be made, after which additional interviews will be made, to see if the contradiction can be confirmed and also whether the impression is correct. So it is not just on the basis of two interviews that a decision is made and an impression is made, to start writing a report. That would be too easy. In that short period of time of about fourteen days, I did not find any contradictions or explanations from people who contradicted each other. I come now to a question from Mr Top, which I have already answered, in particular whether I have received any other telephones. Eventually, on 22 March, the telephone also served to ask the same exact question, not only to Lieutenant Colonel Decrop but also to Colonel Letten. The days after that, I have not received any phones, to always have to ask certain people. The same question was asked to two people on 22 March. The same question was submitted in writing. Their answer was also laid down. Neither of them signed. That concludes what you wanted to know about March 22nd. I have answered the questions about General Debaene's presence. For the questions whether I received all the e-mails, I would point out the distinction between the audit and the internal investigation, and that I did not conduct a forensic investigation. Mrs Fernandez asks if I have been able to look through everything and if I have gone looking for all the e-mails. But I didn't do forensics, I did interviews. I have asked for certain documents to be made available to me. Those documents were made available to me. At no point have I felt that I lacked information over a certain period of time, which meant that I could not decide. So I didn't request all the e-mails about that period. Forensics does have all the mail files from a to z. I've been asking for information during interviews with those involved. At some point, you were talking about a list of interviewees. That list is in the report. Mr Dallemagne, I have answered the question about the difference between an internal audit and an internal investigation. In my interviews or in my conclusion, you ask me to attack one person, with a certain lack of objectivity. My answer to that is as follows. If you read the report, you will find that I am making a number of observations, but not getting personal. From these findings, I draw certain conclusions. I presented those conclusions in the summary I explained last Friday. So it is not true, what you are implying, that a lack of objectivity with regard to one person directly gives rise to a general conclusion. You're asking questions about an article by De Morgen. In this context, I refer to the response of the Chief of Defense. I can assure you that I fell off my chair that morning when I read that newspaper article. There was no reference to anything in the preliminary report that had just been discussed before. The conclusions were not the conclusions of the report, nor were any of the words I used quoted. Whatever spider the Morning wanted to spread, I'll leave it to the paper. I can only confirm what the Chief of Defense has just said about this. Then I come to your question as to whether Lieutenant Colonel Decrop could send his e-mail of May 10th. I suggest that you ask the question yourself later. In any case, he didn't just send it within his hierarchy. In the report I also mention that he has sent these to several people and that they do not immediately find a direct link. You said the chief of the ACAP agency responded. In any case, he did not give a written response at that time. In connection with the mixing of comradeship of like-minded friends, I refer to a recommendation that I included in the internal investigation, in order to avoid having a single service community. If one uses inter-power project structures, this can be avoided. I would point out that it would have been better to continue to use this inter-power project structure until the end. Mr Vandenput, you asked me very specifically whether I had the impression that there was a disagreement between Colonel Letten and Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. It is also stated that there is a disagreement and that Lieutenant Colonel Decrop does not agree with the conclusions of the internal analysis. That disagreement exists between the people of the sub-section who make the internal analysis, the conclusion attached to it, the responsible of the service, namely Colonel Letten, who takes his responsibility, and the one who does not agree with it. You can ask them for further explanations later. Mr Hellings, I would like to ask you whether there have been any reports of this analysis on the dates 16 and 18 May. I challenge you to check and ask for daily operations in every major company when internal analyses are being carried out in working meetings, where staff are being put together, or minutes are being made of each discussion, each analysis, each working meeting with a secretary, who then gives a written account of the deliberations. Well, there are meetings like this every day. I can imagine that the specialists have arranged a meeting in their agenda and have taken the documents together. I have stated in the report that the analysis, because Colonel Letten was on leave during the period of 10 May and was again available from 16 May, had to accelerate the staff available. That analysis was made and they were discussed when Lieutenant Colonel Decrop was available on May 18, and then finally the content of the mail was determined on May 19. I do not have any written reports on those meetings. You can ask those involved, but I do not think there are written reports of those meetings. In reply to Mr Bogaert's question, the CHOD has already replied to certain questions. You asked me about my view of the deontological code. I believe it is reflected in the recommendations. The recommendations, I believe in the last recommendation, state that, in cooperation with the legal service and, in my view, the Director-General of Human Resources, it is certainly necessary to examine how a certain degree of military loyalty to the organisation, as now included in the regulations, can be translated into an understandable and enforceable deontological code which the military must respect. That is the intention, that is what I interpret as: should one not ensure that there is a certain deontological code, so that one thinks a little bit further than what exists now? The Chief of Defense also alerted me to the fact that there are deontological codes but they are very targeted. Among other things, all staff involved in public procurement must sign a deontological code from close to far away and respect it in all acts. I believe that this can also be done by General Debaene, who will explain this to the question of lobbying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u39	But this is about keeping information in, for obvious reasons: to ensure that it does not leak. My question was: what is your view on this? At some point one has to bring out information. We can say that the military have responded within the context of the decision that was taken. That's right. But we're sitting here with another case. The case is: what should a military do if additional information comes when the decision has already been made? The question then is what is to be done with that puzzle piece. Can we then drive for two or three years and pretend not to see the world? I believe that no such decision will be taken in any organizational culture. If there is additional information, in what circumstances should it, according to the new deontological code, be raised? Should she or should she not go to Parliament? It is difficult to have an organizational structure where, if there is an important new element, if the facts change, I change my mind, is said to be in English; this applies here. It is simply said that a decision was taken two years ago and that the train continues. It can't be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u40	Mr Bogaert, you are right. We may not be able to do so because it is not formalised at the moment. There are rules on contacts with the press and the like, but there are no formal rules on such matters. However, I would like to emphasise that the memo does not provide any new information. The memo actually confirms what was in the November 2015 study. There is no new information, which is why the material manager, based on the document in his possession, says that this is not new information, because it was already in the 2015 study and on that basis it had decided on the replacement. The information is not relevant in time and content for the ACAP program, so it does not send them out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u41	But that is the crucial question: is that new information? In my view, that is new information. Suppose we had individual trackers on each plane, then it was new information, because the two additional notaries of the manufacturer say that they, applied to the Belgian aircraft....................................................................................................................................................................................... If we had a tracker on each aircraft, I would say as a Member that it is a new situation, because it is clear that the aircraft can last longer, in equivalent hours, at least as far as the bodywork is concerned. There are a number of other problems to be solved, but at least with the bodywork there can be five or six years longer. That's worth a debate. I understand that this is not technically new information, but I think that is new information politically and operationally. That should have been incorporated in one way or another in the Minister's replies to members of the opposition who asked a question about this. It should have come to us out of respect for parliamentary etiquette, to put it this way. Then we could still decide very rationally that, since there are no trackers, there is no proof that one can fly longer, because that entails a safety risk. We could have said all these things, including as parliamentarians of the majority, but now someone inside the Defence Department has decided to do so. Again, I do not want sanctions and so on, but I want to build on this and ensure that this does not happen again in the future. This cannot be repeated. It is also not good for the file and the decision taken by the government. It must be possible to introduce a deontological code, which provides an answer to the question of what a military should do with that type of information. Once again, I do not want to throw a stone at those involved, because it is a difficult interpretation, even for us here. I just told you, the military are much smarter than we write and think. However, MEPs also deserve to receive such dossiers in the light of the political etiquette and sometimes difficult balance between Parliament and the executive. We need to get to a new balance. My opinion on this is that more information should therefore be sent to Parliament. We will make the right rational decisions on this at the right time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u42	The recommendation on a code of ethics is part of the audit recommendations. So we're gonna take that with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u43	Finally, there was a question from Mr Buysrogge of the N-VA about a final paragraph in the global conclusions. It is said that oral reference was made to the existence of a document containing the results of the simulation of the evolution of metal fatigue provided by Lockheed Martin. So that was an oral contact. I therefore write that the unusability of the results of the simulation was also explained orally. You asked me what I meant by that. If you would like to know the correct content, I finally indicated in the report that this was a contact between Colonel Letten and the Director Budget and MR. You'll be able to ask Colonel Letten for more information later. I asked him, and that's my summary in the end. So I simply stated that he finally explained the conclusion, which he has already made internally, also orally. That conclusion is, in summary, the unusability. But you can ask him exactly what the content of that telephone contact was.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u44	I have another question to which Lieutenant General Robberecht has not replied. He replied that the call calling to try to include a sentence in the statement of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop and of Letten, from Mario Engels, came from the Minister's military assistant. That military assistant is only responding on the orders of the minister. This means that the intervention from the cabinet does not come from an ordinary cabinet employee, but from the minister. The information I just gave you is important. The question that Lieutenant General Robberecht has not answered is a follow-up. Is it true that cabinet employees of Minister Vandeput, and perhaps again the military assistant, have asked to deliver a copy of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's e-mails to the cabinet? Is it true you got that question? If so, who was the person you asked?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u45	If I recall correctly, we were asked: can you check the e-mails, what General Debaene and I did at that time? We really did not think that was practical in the context of our research at the time, because it would be very time-consuming and we would eventually have other questions to ask. Did I receive the specific question at that time? Rudi, help me. Did I get the very specific question from the PST files at the time? Firstly, there was no time for either technical equipment at that time. I don't remember being asked this at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u46	You start by answering that this requires a lot of work. So you got that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u47	No. I rather think that, since we went through the e-mails in half an hour later, because Lieutenant Colonel Decrop had his laptop with him, we then told him to go through the e-mails and check whether there was any mail traffic during that period. We asked him ourselves if he could check...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u48	At the request of whom did you do the exercise on that e-mail on that Decrop computer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u49	Same person.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u50	Same person. Mario English, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u51	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u52	Thank you. Then we know that Mario Engels asked two questions. First, he tried to include a sentence in Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's statement and, second, he asked, pending the investigation, to deliver all of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's e-mails to the cabinet. Is that called an independent internal investigation? That investigation you conducted, General, does not deserve that name, because there have been two interferences from the cabinet, and not from the Minister's military assistant, that is the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u53	When I reread the report from last Friday's committee meeting, which is a correct reflection of what I said, I already stressed what was asked, namely to ask a specific question, to have the specific question acted on and to have the answer acted on, not what is being insinuated, namely to put a whispered statement on paper and to have it signed afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u54	I believe that Mr Van der Maelen's summary that the cabinet would have asked for the e-mails to be handed over to the cabinet is not in line with what was said. I would like to stress this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u55	What we have learned here, Mr De Roover, and you have to answer me if you think that is normal, is that, in an internal audit by the Defense Department, there are regular interferences by the Cabinet, which, of course, restricts the independence of that investigation. I would also like to ask you, Mr Robberecht, whether you think it is normal for this to happen in the context of an audit investigation? Moreover, there is a third element. We also hear that General Debaene assisted the internal audit. General Debaene is responsible as chief for the proper functioning of people interviewed as part of that internal audit. In other words, there are superiors who supervise the internal audit, there is interference by the cabinet in at least two cases. To what extent can we still speak of an independent investigation here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u56	I would have liked to know the opinion of the main expert and only woman around this table, Mrs Schoubs, with regard to the phone call from the minister's aide-de-camp to Mr Robberecht concerning the addition of a sentence or mention. Is this interference for you? Does this guarantee the independence of the Defence audit, in parallel with yours?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u57	General Robberecht, is there anything you'd like to add?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u58	No, the question is now asked. To Mrs Schoubs to respond to Mr Hellings' question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make it clear that the subject of the audit was an investigation, a forensic audit of an integrity breach, so I would like to check whether the internal procedures proposed today have been followed and whether there have been any infringements on that point. The fact that we have briefly mentioned that Lockheed Martin's information has no impact on the current tender dossier must therefore also be seen in that context. Should this be the case, the current award procedure would be immediately suspended, as there would be interference in that regard. That is also the point we made in the conclusion that was presented here on Friday. It is clear that if the basic condition for that tender dossier, namely whether or not the F-16 fleet should be replaced after 8 000 current hours of flight, changes on the basis of Lockheed Martin's information, the timing of the tender dossier and possibly even the need for that dossier. But on the dossier itself, on the current procedure, i.e. the evaluation of the award criteria and of the tenders, there is no impact. That is also the message you received on Friday. It was also made clear on Friday that if the basic 8 000-hour allowance does not remain in place, the dossier has been impacted on that point. They also asked why we worked with KPMG. The choice for KPMG to support this dossier is part of the fact that today we have a framework agreement that works in cascades and where KPMG was the first partner in that cascade system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u61	Mr Hedebouw, I will let Mrs Schoubs speak out first. You may respond immediately after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u62	Was there an investigation into certain links between KPMG and Lockheed Martin in the past? Or was it just automatically applied by the cascade system?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u63	It's just automatically applied by the cascade system. At the moment when there is such an emergency, we produce a short specifications and send the question to the company that is the first in the cascade. If he is willing to fulfil the mission, that mission shall be assigned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u64	Do you not think that is a problem, in such difficult cases, where there is a lot of lobbying?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u65	We are simply following the law on public procurement and we are following the cascade on that point. I do not think we can afford to deviate from that as an audit service. It's also been said that we're exonerating the Defense Department. We are indeed saying that, according to the procedures in force today, the information should not be passed on. We also say that the decisions have been taken in accordance with the current powers that apply today. We have indeed not made a technical assessment of Lockheed Martin's documents. The only thing we have looked at is the fact that the documents state that there are a number of conditions for concluding that there must be an individual aircraft tracking in the various devices and that there must be a flight recorder and that this is available today on a limited number of devices. When a judgment has to be made whether or not it is valid and whether we can only decide on the basis of those memos whether an extension is possible, that is a decision to be taken by the Defence Department. That is not the scope of the internal audit carried out today. In the recommendations, however, we have said that there should be a formal clear position of the Defence staff on the evaluation of the structural and operational integrity of the F-16 fleet and that a motivation should be given to policy makers. I think this is the basis of the whole discussion. There must therefore be a formal position, that is a recommendation we are making, of the value of the memos. We did not print any literal mails in our report. That's not the way to work either. We try to display what was in the mail. The literal e-mails can be found in our working documents, but do not appear in the audit report. We did the research from May 2016 to May 2017. What's in our report is mostly about that period. The analysis of the e-mails has been carried out effectively for the period from May 2016 to March 2018. In the context of the interviews and what we assessed as relevant for the investigation, we have had contact with a cabinet employee who is still active today and with an ex-officer who has a different position today. With regard to the ACAP team, we have in fact only been in contact with Mr Van Pee, who was the only one mentioned in the e-mails which we have looked at in the context of the investigation and which we have also considered critical. We checked all the contacts of the Defense Staff with Lockheed Martin. We have, in particular, checked the contacts that are relevant to this dossier. The screening of the e-mails also looked at all matters relating to Lockheed Martin. We have limited ourselves only to e-mails relating to this file. There was also a question about how we got the data available and what we did with it. On 23 March we asked for a copy of all the mail files and all the data available. That was on the basis of the persons we considered involved in this dossier at the time. Afterwards, people have joined and the question has been expanded. The copies were taken on 28 March and made available to us on 29 March, so to speak, but the condition was that we would actually look at the files ourselves in the defense. We have then indicated that this was not workable for us because in the framework of the forensic investigation a number of actions have to be carried out which also take place at night and take a long time. In the end, Defense agreed to come back to that; that was on March 30th. On 4 April we finally got the data available via a flash drive. We then did an analysis of the mail traffic from May 2016 to March 2018. How did that analysis happen? We have checked the mail exchange, both outgoing and incoming, between the different persons involved in those conversations. When one sees that there are certain gaps or gaps in communication, it already gives an indication. If there are e-mails deleted with certain people, then there is a problem. We have performed crosschecks and found no such gaps. On the basis of the research we have been able to do, we have not found any such gaps in mail traffic. We looked at this last time too, and I said this to the e-mails that were deleted, but we did not do any real recovery of the files, because the e-mails in question were perhaps already a year old. So there was a lot of chance that that place was already fully compressed or possibly already overwritten. In order to make the investigation complete, it would be best to do a PC investigation, as I told you on Friday. In order to arrive at the first conclusions in this investigation, in order to remain within the specified time frame.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To the question of who was present at the meeting in May 2016, where for the first time there was talk about soft and hard SLEP, I can't answer exactly by heart. I should check it out. We do have that information at our disposal. It was also asked whether we had any pressure during the implementation of this study. I can confirm that we were not at any point influenced or contacted by the Defense Department or the Cabinet to steer the investigation in any direction. We have been completely independent. We have decided who we wanted to see in the investigation, what we wanted to do in it and what questions we wanted to ask. I can confirm that we have been able to act in complete independence. It is also our wish, as a Federal Internal Audit, to be able to work in this way. At the moment when the independence and objectivity of the Federal Internal Audit are questioned, whatever happens in practice, we cannot function. We also explicitly work under the supervision of the Audit Committee, which ensures that we can work effectively independently. Have we investigated e-mail traffic for communication with the cabinet? Yeah, we've effectively checked all the e-mails from an employee. For the other persons, there is always a check with whom they have had contact, based on mail traffic that was in their mailbox. It was also checked to see if there were any contacts with the cabinet at that point. I think our audit in that context was indeed an audit. There was also a question about the fact that we found that Mr Decrop downloaded a number of documents from the MNFP server. We have indeed found that this happened in February. Apparently, those documents were intended for their own investigation or business. I do not want to go into this further. Nor is it part of the audit we have carried out at present. We have merely recommended to Defence that they check whether authorisations to different websites are effective and that people, who no longer belong to a particular group in the Defense Department, should in principle not have access to that information, their authorisations should be taken away in time and should not remain for months. There was a question as to whether there were PV's of the meetings that took place during the period of 16 May 2017. We have not been able to find any CVs of this kind. We haven't received them either. We had to base ourselves purely on the e-mails we found around those meetings and the statements made by the various people present at those meetings. We have always done the crosscheck: is what is being told between the different people who are present there, or are there contradictions in it? I think I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u66	Mrs. Schoubs, you do not rule out the deletion of e-mails before you could put your hand on them. You say that this requires more research, but the time span was too limited to conduct that investigation. That question is important, all the more so because quite a lot of time has passed between the announcement of the forensic investigation, with the application of laptops and the like, and receiving the data you have had to examine. In that time, certain actions could take place. I am not suggesting that they have happened, but it is not excluded either. That's what I understood. I also note that you have audited only one or two cabinet staff of the Minister and only one member of the ACAP team. In the meantime, however, we know that several people from the Vandeput cabinet play a role in this matter. In fact, we have just heard this from General Robberecht: a cabinet employee directly interfered in the internal audit. You wrote the summary, which we received on Friday. That summary gives you the wrong impression and I ask you to explain why. One of your conclusions in the summary is that the information from Lockheed Martin's studies has no impact on the ongoing tender file for the replacement of the current F-16 fleet. This gives you the impression that you have analysed the content of Lockheed Martin's studies and that they do not make any substantial difference. In your actual audit report, however, you are quite right to add much more reservations, as you say: 'if the maximum limit of 8 000 hours of flight is retained'. That is what the debate is about. The summary that we have received has given rise to a certain tone in Parliament and also in the media, as if your audit and internal audit were to exonerate Defence across the board. I would therefore ask you to show some caution in your summary and certainly in your conclusions, as your summary does not cover the full conclusion of the audit report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u67	Madam President, Mrs Schoubs, I would like to clarify and verify that I have understood you correctly. You've examined all the mail traffic of cabinet employees. I asked you a very specific question. Have you analysed the mailboxes of the then head of the cabinet and the deputy head of the cabinet with regard to the file? I just want a yes/no answer to that question. There is a second question to which you have not answered. When we look at your report, we find that in certain places certain information is requested not to be made public. Have you wondered why this information should not be made public? Did you take that into account in your final conclusion? I refer to your third conclusion in the summary, in which you write that the information has no impact on the ongoing tender dossier. In that case, I assume that you have also verified and clarified such matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u68	Madam President, Mrs Schoubs, I would like to supplement Mr De Vriendt. Firstly, how many cabinet employees and members of the ACAP team were audited? Why weren't there any other people? There have already been a number of cases audited? Secondly, I can only confirm what has been said before. It is, of course, dangerous to write in a summary that I quote: 'the information described above has no impact on the ongoing tender file for the replacement of the current F-16 fleet'. That statement is based on the research question, which I also quote: "Does the known information have an impact on the correct course of the ACAP process, subject to..." as has already been mentioned, "if the decision on the certified life course of the F-16s, based on 8 000 flight hours, is maintained and there is no influence on the timing of the future course?'. The scope of the research is limited in that research story. Did you draw up that question and register that line of 8 000 hours of flight time in your scope and research question? Or was this imposed on you or imposed on you? Finally, I remain hungry with regard to the investigation of those mail files. You literally said on Friday in committee that they were PST files. Those are Outlook files. You explained it earlier, you can crosscheck it and look up the gaps and history. I'm going to repeat my question, but I can't quote from the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u69	Do it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u70	Which files did you investigate? I'll tell you: ODF files (outlook data files).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u71	Outlook data files.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u72	Those aren't PST files.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u73	There's PST files in there. The investigation was done on the basis of the PST files we received.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u74	PST files converted into an ODF file. So you've been given other files. Isn't it? Yes or no? Are they other files or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u75	Mr Top, Mrs Schoubs will be answering all the questions that are now being asked in a moment. Do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u76	So, Mrs. Schoubs, you've received ODF files that are listed in the audit report and which have been examined? No answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u77	Mrs Schoubs, I am a little surprised that you see no problem in the synthesis that was submitted to us on Friday. On the one hand, you say that there was no impact in the proceedings. On the other hand, in the audit as such, you must declare that this is only true if you stay within the 8 000 hours. You understand that it was not unusual to place this meeting on Friday, in view of the political weight of the file. In hindsight, do you think you shouldn't have written it that way? "If we stay within the 8 000 hours, then there will be no impact." Politically, this is an important judgment. But I feel like you're not going back to your opinion. This concern is expressed by the opposition, but I understand that some colleagues in the majority – particularly on the CD&V – feel that this is a problem. So this question goes beyond the majority-opposition divide. In hindsight, do you come back to your opinion? I would remind you that the minister made a quasi-industrial use of this sentence in his weekend communication. Do you consider, in the end, that it has been used outside its context or do you think that it is entirely correct? Then, as I understand it, the audit relied on the professional e-mails on which you state in a very offensive way that they are not responsible for any leaks. So, for example, private e-mails were not examined? You assume that a leak could only have left a professional mailbox. On the other hand, but we will come back with Mr Robberecht – who answered only one of my colleague Van der Maelen's questions – is the screening of e-mails in the course of a procedure common in the case of an audit? It's still pretty amazing. Does that make sense to you? In the external audit, were the interactions between the firm and the procedure examined from this perspective? It seems to me that more and more charge elements show that there has been interference. I imagine that during the audit, the firm has to say: "We will not touch anything anymore, we will put everything on 'pause' and let the independent bodies work". Now, if I understand correctly, the phone has heated well. Is it logical, which is more with very, very close collaborators? What is your judgment, as an external actor, and also considering what you have heard here today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u78	Madam President, Mrs Schoubs, I am not questioning your willingness to do the best work possible. Do you not find, however, that, from the outset, your work is undermined by the fact that, the same day you finally receive the USB drive with the mails, appear, in the press, results. I am sorry, but it was not we who used the word "internal audit" but the Prime Minister in plenary. It is the Prime Minister who himself announces an internal defence audit. We learn that today there is no longer any capacity within Defence to conduct an audit and that there is cooperation with a cross-cutting government department. This is a false information that we are given at that time and that we take good account of. Mrs. Schoubs, don't you think you're getting a banana skin under your feet? Finally, you have enough work to do and you are already told what the results will be from a partner with whom you have a cooperation agreement. You tell us: "It's not us..." Obviously, I believe you, but it seems to me even more worrying because it was not the newspaper De Morgen that had an interest in leaking this but a political leader to establish a climate. Despite your will, as several colleagues have pointed out, the summary you gave us last Friday does not correspond to what is in the audit which says very clearly and you say again this morning: "The dossier is indeed affected if we question the 8,000 hours". That's what you just told us this morning. That's exactly what we're looking for. That's exactly what this Lockheed Martin study is looking for. So there is some sort of sophistry in the reasoning we are being given today. We are looking at whether we can go beyond 8,000 hours. Yes, we can! And so the file is impacted! General Compernol, I can't follow you when you say, "We can only go beyond 8 000 hours if we put an IAT for 90% of the life of the device from the start." That's what Lockheed Martin tells us today. But, I'm sorry, the studies that have been transmitted to us contain a whole technical explanation that I won't read here because it is in English and complex. We understand that we should have had the IAT, but that we could have used other models, such as the Crack Severity Index, and that we could have had a fairly precise idea of the extension of life for each of the Belgian aircraft. I still feel like we're being served stories that are gradually changing, with the argument: "We forgot to tell you." I, at least, have read these studies well. At that time, it was very clear that a way had been found to study the possibility of extending each of the Belgian aircraft, despite the fact that they were not equipped with IAT. Additional question. Several of you spoke, including General Robberecht, about the fact that Colonel Decrop had sent these letters beyond his hierarchy. It is interesting to note that, however, when Colonel Letten, his superior, is moved by Colonel Decrop's initiative, he sends letters to Roelandts – aviator –, Ocula – aviator –, Vansina – aviator –, Van Pee – aviator –, but not to his direct superior. No one tells us in the audit that it would have been interesting for Colonel Letten, who is worried about an initiative by Colonel Decrop, to warn his superior, Yves Dupont. He's not an airman, so he's left out. He is not informed that there may be a difficulty. Do you not find it surprising that the only person Colonel Letten should have informed, that is to say his own superior, but who is not an aviator - by the way, he is also the only Francophone - is left behind? I think it might have been interesting to learn it through the audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u79	I would like to come back to what was said earlier. I thank the Chief of Staff for having mentioned the note of 9 November 2015. That is a note that is indeed crucial. I have already suggested, and I hope that this will be possible in the second session of our hearings next week or later, to hear those who, on the basis of this note, have prepared the decision-making process for the adoption of the Strategic Vision, and the launch based on it. We need to hear those people, because it is clear that this note of 9 November 2015 is based on incorrect, or at least incomplete, information. For example, that note states: "The F16s can not fly longer than 8 000 hours." In short, door close to the slope of life extension, door wide open for the purchase of the new fighter plane. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also hear all those who have worked on the basis of that note. But I'm moving on. I listened with great attention to the Chief of Staff's two timelines. We know that information has been available at the military summit since May 2016 that the F16s can be extended beyond 8 000 hours. They had that information. According to the Chief of Staff's timeline, the Strategic Vision was approved on 29 June 2016. Who didn't page about the possibility of extension? The army top! The launch of the procedure for the purchase of new aircraft took place only in March 2017. Who also kept quiet about the possibility of another track, the extension of the F16 until March 2017? That army top right there! In short, the information has not only been withheld from us from 2017 or 2018. No, the military summit has been playing politics since 2016 and is holding back essential information that could have led to a different decision from that taken in June 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, if that note has led us to the slope of buying new aircraft, then we should also examine that note very carefully, because I am sure that it contains a lot of incomplete and even incorrect information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u80	I address myself to General Compernol. I'm glad you gave me such a clear answer. However, I am a little surprised at the content of the answer. You say that the decision to replace the planes was taken at government level, which is true, and that Defence acted on that decision. I understand that explanation, but if we look at the dossier fully, we can see that up to twice two different colonels have reported that there was a certain political sensitivity and that there was a recommendation to inform yourself and also the Minister of Defence about the new elements in this dossier. We now know that those elements are irrelevant and such, but at that time... We will soon hear those colonels and other people who may have stopped this, but this proves that there are people in your organization who do have moving insight. I think it was really appropriate to apply and follow that. In fact, the Minister himself admitted twice in Parliament that he had actually been better informed about that information. You have also made it quite clear that you would have preferred that too. Then perhaps we would not have been here; you said that just now. So I really think that new intel that was stopped, probably by a colonel we'll be hearing about later, should have come to the MOD and come to yourself. That has certainly been a serious error of communication and assessment at a certain level within the organisation. I have a second question for Lieutenant General Robberecht. If I'm right, in the organization, you're directly dependent on the Secretary of Defense. [[Mr Robberecht shakes the head of no]] You're depending on the CHOD? [[Assent]] With regard to the discussion just now with Mr Van der Maelen, can you state clearly whether or not there has been interference by the cabinet about the audit? I still think it's just a half-hearted story. Can you be very clear about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u81	Madam Chair, first of all, I wanted to thank all the speakers. There is one that I wanted to thank in particular, you, General. From the beginning of your speech, and in one sentence, you have brought the debate back to its true scope: that of political responsibility. Don't hesitate to contradict me, but if I understood correctly, the option of extending the aircraft was not studied by the army, because the government's political decision was the purchase of new aircraft. From then on, you obeyed the orders. (Sign of acquiescence of General Compernol). So we could stop the hearing here, because all the debates we might have on flying hours, on the possible extension of the F-16s would be useless. At present, since the procedure for the purchase of new aircraft has not been suspended or stopped, for the army, for the defence, the option of extension is not one, since the government's decision remains to purchase new aircraft. Colleagues, we should debate whether the extension of new aircraft can be an option. Yesterday, I asked the Minister of Defence a clear question about the possible suspension of proceedings. He didn't answer. So I hear she's not. General, thank you for the clarity of your explanations and for your frankness, which I welcome. In one sentence the problem is solved. As some colleagues have said, very serious things have happened. Changes will have to be made in the defence oversight bodies, including the establishment of a D committee in the same vein as what exists for the police. It is important to think about the protection of whistleblowers, because that is what this is all about. My group will also make a proposal to that effect. But beyond that, as long as you tell us that Defence has not studied the extension option because it has responded to government orders... 01.70 (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u82	Did I misunderstand? In that case, I'm waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u83	I just wanted to respond to the Chief of Staff's answers. Mr Compernol, I have two questions. You say that the RfGP took a political decision on 17 March 2017. You say any intervention by the military would mean you're doing politics. We can also reverse the reasoning. By withholding this information you decide in the name of politics. This information is so crucial that we cannot ignore it. She needs to be included in the final assessment. In addition, you say that you have made an analysis and you refer to the November 2015 note. We must remain serious, Mr. Chief of Staff. Before the Easter holiday, I said in plenary that the note to which you refer contains many open questions. I do not think you can rely on that note to make a decision on this dossier. I have the following questions. Who are the authors of this note? Are those the same people who are involved in this file and behind me? Why has this note never been updated? In other words, why have the questions contained in this note never been answered?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u84	I would like to go into more detail about an important statement by the Chief of Defense, because it touches the core of the problem. Mr Compernol, you say that the political decision was already taken. You even refer to the coalition agreement. You're saying an extension of the F-16 isn't really an option. That is very problematic, because within your department there is information available from the producer of the F-16 himself, Lockheed Martin, who contradicts that. A minister can only function if he gets up-to-date information from his department. The Minister of Defence also depends on the information he receives from his department. If there is a gap, then the Minister, and indeed the policy in this country, has a major problem. If, for example, the OCAD decides, on the basis of its own analysis, to raise the level of terrorism, we all expect the government to adapt and take new measures. If Defense has new information from Lockheed Martin, which shows that the extension of life expectancy is a serious reflection, but that information is not forwarded to politics, then politics cannot make the right decision and may not review the policy. Politicians can only function if they get up-to-date information from the terrain, from the department, from the officials. It's pretending that Colonel Decrop didn't e-mail until May 2017 and then beyond his hierarchy. I would like to point out that the external audit shows that Colonel Decrop had been e-mailing about the meeting of Lockheed Martin on 23 May 2016 about the possible lifetime extension and the existence of hard and soft SLEP. On 15 June, so few days after the meeting, Colonel Decrop e-mailed about this, among other things to his direct superior. When that didn't work out, he also, in May 2017, only a year later, e-mailed outside his hierarchy. Defence and its direct superiors were therefore immediately aware of this new information. However, nothing happened to the information. The excuse for this is that the political decision has already been taken. I hope that this way of functioning is changing or has already changed. If this continues, we will face a lot of problems within the Defense Department. If a government takes a decision in a government agreement, which lasts five years, and formulates a piste which is then not respected, we have a major problem in this country. Especially if during those five years all information that appears is considered irrelevant and is not passed on to the political level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u85	The committee started with a few questions to Mrs Schoubs, but it ended in a second round of questions. I would therefore like to give the floor first to Mrs Schoubs, then to invite the generals to answer in addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u86	I would like to emphasise once again, as regards the summary, that it was certainly not the intention to give a message last Friday which somehow gives the wrong impression. As we explicitly reported on Friday, there is no impact on the ongoing tender dossier. In the oral explanation it was stated that the 8000 actual flying hours are effectively a basic assumption that should be preserved. The conclusion in the summary relates effectively to the tender dossier and the procurement procedure in itself. When it comes to the e-mails and cabinet staff, I can report that we have effectively checked e-mails from one cabinet employee, we haven't checked any other mailboxes from cabinet employees. We have, in the context of the investigation we did in mailboxes of other researched persons, checked each time whether there was any mail traffic with the cabinet. That's where the investigation has been carried out. We did not examine mailboxes from other persons, because we focused mainly on what the file focuses on. We have therefore examined whether or not there was an integrity violation of those involved in the flow of information around Lockheed Martin to the Defense Department. I am not aware whether there were effective interventions in March, and questions for mails from the cabinet. Let us say that these issues were no longer part of the investigation either. I do not want to comment on this. I don't know the context in which the e-mails were requested. They were also outside the scope of today's research. We have indeed only looked at professional e-mails. As you know, as a Federal Internal Audit, we can conduct an administrative investigation but not a judicial investigation. So we can't go to someone and ask them to show us private e-mails. If we see certain external communications in the context of the research, we have also examined them, then that is part of the scope. But we can't go to someone and demand that this person issues his or her PC or shows private e-mails. This does not fall within the framework of the internal audit. The e-mails have been reviewed and the people of Defense have explicitly asked to be there. I can formally confirm that there has been no intervention. They've been there as an observer when KPMG's people have screened the e-mails. There's no communication or influence, this wasn't, but they were there as an observer. I can also confirm that KPMG looked at the PST files "ODF" or "PST" during the screening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u87	I would like to clarify something for Mr Van der Maelen. You will be very brief when you say that in May 2016 there was already a knowledge that there was a study, or that we had the information about the F-16's metal fatigue. In May 2016, Lockheed Martin announced that they had a model for making calculations. The first information we have, the first study you have, by the way, also dated April 2017. So after the date I mentioned. It is true, Mr Vandeput, that I said that if we were informed, we would probably not have this sitting. That would have been better. I am pleased to hear that you yourself also mention that the study or memo is not relevant. You used that in your questioning. I would add that the decision was taken by the material manager concerned within his competence. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you have taken over everything I have said, but you have forgotten a little detail: in November 2015, in the famous document which we have already mentioned several times, we have studied several tracks: extension, leasing, used planes, a mixed fleet. All these possibilities have been explored and Kern has made its decision on this basis. Mr Yüksel, if you say that we must remain serious and that the November 2015 study needs to be updated, I can partly agree, but I note that the decisions have been taken. When we read the document we have now received from the SPO, the document that was also available for inspection, I note that it confirms all the conclusions in the area of the extension of the F-16. By this I mean all the conclusions, both on the structure of the airport and on its operational relevance. Who made the document? The questions were asked by the Minister's cabinet to the Defence Staff, to the various specialists. It is then normal for the minister's cabinet to synthesize this in one form or another and put it forward in the appropriate fora. Mr. De Vriendt, you have the intention of always talking about the memo or the study on the extension of lifespan. This isn't about extending the lifespan. It concerns a five-page document, in which one page with signatures and one page intensively left blank that deals with the metallic fatigue of the structure. From this, deciding that aircraft can fly longer is a very short turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u88	Mr Vandenput, you asked very specifically to clarify again what contact there was with the cabinet on 22 March. I refer once again to the committee meeting last Friday. I quote the Minister: "I have indeed asked the Defence Staff to check with the persons concerned whether or not there had been contact with a cabinet. If there had been no contact, I asked for that statement to be signed. That's all it is." I repeat what I said before. I was asked to ask that question in concrete terms, to act on that question and to act on the answer. I also replied to the question of who made the phone calls. Did I feel steering outside that contact on March 22nd? You can read in the report that the internal investigation was conducted from 20 to 29 March, I suspect 22 March was a Thursday. At that time it was apparently very relevant to ask that specific question and to have an answer to it and to be able to act. I have had no guidance from outside, neither before, nor afterwards, nor from the Chief of Defense, nor from the Minister, nor the scope of the investigation, nor the manner in which I was to conduct this investigation. I can be very formal about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u89	Before I open a third round of questions, I would also like to let General Debaene speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have recorded a number of questions to which an answer remains open. Mr Top, you asked which country is involved in what is in the SPO note. I can only read whatever you can read. There's no indication of the nation. Nor do I think it is relevant in the context of the question we have asked. It was only cited as an indication. I also confirmed on Friday that at some point, for the avionics, there was a sum of a billion dollars. That is only an indication of the amount involved. I also mentioned last Friday that it is not just about investment or that billion. There is also an impact on everything we have to do, so the maintenance part. There are also other elements that will have to be addressed if we want a lifetime extension. As far as price information is concerned, no additional price information has been requested because, with the note of 5 April or with the answers we have received, we find that the price indications, as they have been recalled in the famous November 2015 note, are confirmed. So this was only about a billion euros for avionics. We've been looking into it. This ultimately confirms the figures used in 2015 as the basis for the note. Mr Hellings, you asked me if I was aware of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's e-mail. I saw that e-mail for the first time when I sat here with the Minister on 20 March or in the aftermath of that meeting. So I wasn't aware at all that the e-mail existed. Mr Bogaert, you had a question about the risk of a crash. Since 2006, we have been monitoring through 16 recording devices that we can place on 27 aircraft of our fleet, half. We use this data, as indicated on Friday, with the Netherlands Air and Space Institute, to make an extrapolation to the condition of our fleet. We use that data to manage our fleet, not for the purpose of life extension, but for the sake of management, so that when we have to designate a device, for example as a demo device, as happened at the beginning of this year, we logically take the device that is below the median curve. That device is therefore not yet subject to all maximum stress and strains during its life cycle. In one of the documents, which was also distributed by the Minister following the meeting on 20 March, you can even see that there is a unit with a coefficient of 2.2. That device, which we have sold in the meantime, I may say now, was the demo device, just to prove it. A device that will fly in a certain way is subject to greater stress and strain and we need to be sure that we identify a correct device, not a device that is at the end of its life. I would also like to give you the following information, which Colonel Letten will be able to explain later. Since we have known since 2016 that Lockheed Martin has a simulation tool based on a number of data, where our data is not primarily 100 % suitable for its........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u91	General Debaene, that's two important things. You say we have those trackers for about half of our planes. Then there is an obvious question: what about the other half? Isn't there a risk? The standard I read in that document is that 90% of the historical flights must have been measured to be relevant and to conclude that they are safe. These seem to me to be two things that we do not really meet at the moment. What will we do about it? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u92	The measuring device can be placed on board on 27 of the 54 devices. We leave the 16 measuring devices to change those 27 devices at a certain frequency to try to monitor half of our fleet. For the other aircraft, the administrative data are used for, among other things, the type of flight, namely regular ferry flight, an air-to-air exercise flight or a flight where, for example, a training bomb was thrown on Tampa Range in Helchteren. These things are recorded and extrapolated for the entire fleet. For the devices on which no registration is made, there is extrapolation because the initial registration was not there either. This raises the question of why only 27 devices are used for the provisionings and 16 devices are effectively measured. I must remain guilty of the answer to that. The decision, which we are now faced with, was taken in the period 2001-2006. We are trying to get the best out of the data we have and we are extrapolating it for the rest of the fleet. Once again, as I have just indicated, we are now aware of the fact that the individual aircraft tracking system can help us to improve fleet management. If you were to ask Colonel Letten the question later, you will probably also be given the indication that people are seriously considering placing the individual aircraft tracking system on the aircraft, not to prolong its lifespan, but to make the right decisions about the fleet. Every technique evolves, every device evolves as well. The F-16 was conceived somewhere in the 1960s. We put the first aircraft into service in 1979. The oldest device we have in use today dates back to 1983. It is therefore logical that there should be an evolution in this. The word here has been used a few times: moving insight. The same applies to matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u93	Do we have the data, the second-class documentation on aircraft stress, not through individual trackers, but through the method you have just described, since 1979? Have those data existed since 1979 for all our devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u94	No, we have that data since 2006. As I explained last Friday, we carried out the Falcon X programme in 2006, and at that time we decided to take measurements on a particular part of our fleet through that system, not on the entire fleet. That decision was made in the time frame 2001-2006. There are no historical data of that type that can be used to do a projection as the Americans are doing now. As I reported on Friday, our recording device measures differences in or movements of two elements relative to each other, i.e. with stretch strips. The new devices on board, which we should have on board, measure accelerations via gyroscopes in the three axes used in a movement. The measurement there is also completely different. An extrapolation is therefore made from the data that we have continuously measured on 16 devices, up to half of the fleet, as we have only equipped 27 devices. Those data will then be put into a simulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u95	Suppose you had those trackers by individual plane, could you go back in time, as it were? I mean by that whether you could establish historical wear and tear as a factor throughout the period up to the installation of the trackers, or is that not a good method?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u96	One of the two annexes to the SPO document, which has been made available to you, will show that the cracks are being followed and that a history is being recorded. That's the idea. It's not the crack one measures at some point. One records a history and it is that history, which will determine how strongly a device has been affected by those cracks. I can give you a full explanation of how we are trying to follow that up, but we need a history. Hence my comment last Friday, which I still support. We do not have the historical data, so we cannot look back in time either. So that creates a problem. It may be that certain nations do not care and fly without having that historical data. Well, then that's the responsibility of that nation. That is also one of the reasons why I said last Friday that for us the only thing we are currently certain of are the 8 000 actual flying hours. That is what we will use for the moment. Today that has already been mentioned a few times. Is the hypothesis or is it not for ACCaP? For us, the only thing we are 100% sure of at the moment is the guarantee given by Lockheed Martin, namely 8 000 hours of flight time for the aircraft, combined with the follow-up by SPO, but these are questions that you can also ask the Americans this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u97	The dialogue we have now, General, why has it not been possible to take place from the documents? I think the conclusion of what you're saying is pretty clear. In principle, we could have had this dialogue in Parliament and then we could have reached the same decision. I do not think this is a purely neutral technical dialogue. This is indeed about political consequences that are linked to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u98	I think our Chief of Defense replied to that, as did the Minister, last Friday. Would we have liked to know? Probably so, but again, in our view, that has also been demonstrated by the audits and it has been mentioned a few times already by the fleet manager. He's just based on what he knows. If he sees that the end state doesn't change, there's no reason to inform people. That is a discussion which I believe has already been held a few times, both with the people who are here today and with our minister, last Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u99	But you confirm that you would have liked that information, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u100	Mr Bogaert, there are other people who would like to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u101	One last question. You confirm that you would have liked that information, as we would have liked it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u102	I think it is clear that our Chief of Defense also gave that information, and, I think, our Minister last Friday too: had we had that information, we would probably never have been here today because it is actually a non-issue. There was another question from Mr Thiéry about lobbying. Let me be very clear. Since certain events in the purchasing world at Defence, or in purchasing programs within Defence, there has been a strict separation within DG MR between the material managers, on the one hand, and the purchasing service, on the other. The strict divorce is there and remains there. Material managers may contact industry, as they will eventually have to look at what is available on the market. They will have to draw up specifications to be able to launch new markets. From the moment a market is launched, the application is approved prior to the approval of the application, and we launch the market, the responsibility changes and goes to the Public Services Division. There is a strict deontology in which contact with the firms takes place only in the context of current markets and only in the context of, for example, either negotiations, where one normally sits as a purchasing officer in front of someone from the firm, or in the execution of an existing contract. For example, if there is an issue concerning an appeal to security, it is logical that the purchasing officer should address the firm in question. From the number of parliamentary questions that I see passing, I know that there is a register for ACAP which lists all contacts between the ACAP team and industry. I suspect that, under industry, contacts with lobbyists are also meant. We are regularly asked to have access to these contacts. There is a strict register of who has been in contact with and in which domain of the market. The people of the purchasing service work under strict deontology. Contact with the firm takes place only if it has to be in the context of a contract. We are going even further, because we also clearly state in our specifications to the firms that we have a deontological code for our purchasing service and that we want the firms to respect those deontological codes. No more gifts are given and no contact is made if that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u103	I have two brief comments to make. According to an expert I've consulted, there have been stretch strips on every F-16 from day one. So there is a history to compile. I suggest that we discuss this further this afternoon, because then colleagues of yours will come to testify in terms of material management. I would like to show this document to the Chief of Staff: the ASIP review from 23 to 26 May. It says that Belgium, if it so wishes and asks, can allow the F-16s to fly for more than 8 000 hours. That information has been trying to get Lieutenant Colonel Decrop to come up since 2016, but it's stuck with the Defense Department. This led the government to take a decision on the Strategic Vision on 29 May 2016 a few days after the ASIP review of 23 May 2016, not knowing that another track was possible. In March 2017, the government decided, not knowing that the possibility of a lifetime extension was open, to launch a purchasing procedure. The army has withheld crucial information from the political decision-makers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u104	Madam Chair, I had warned that I would continue my intervention after hearing the CHOD's response. I apologize to him, because my intention was not to lie by omission. If my summary was too brief, it was because the exercise was new to me. I'll tell you again. Indeed, after the government declaration, the options of leasing and extension, etc. were studied during 2015. The result was the strategic vision endorsed by Kern. I may sum up a little, but it seems to me that, in the main, I am not lying. This strategic vision consists of the document that has politically sealed the government's choice to buy aircraft. I therefore resume my speech where I had left it earlier. In this case, we are talking well about a political choice. As soon as this strategic vision was defined and approved by the Kern – which you yourself have confirmed, I think – any option of extension was therefore excluded in the eyes of the Defence. Whatever documents were transmitted, whether they were known or secret reports, as the chairman of the committee mentioned, by questioning the Minister of Defence in plenary session. As a result, I confirm my remarks: the government's option (which has not changed since the Defence Minister did not reply yesterday to the question of the suspension of the F-16 buy-back procedure) is now chosen and assumed. This government's political option commits Belgium to a EUR 15 billion market without paying a euro under this legislature (which is important to remember) for several generations, while other options are currently possible. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what I said earlier: I intend to attend all the hearings, because I think they will reveal other problems that are wider than those relating to the F-16 file, but all the elements that can be said here as to whether or not the F-16s will be extended will have no interest until the government's political option has changed. Yesterday, the minister did not confirm that the political option had changed, despite the new elements that we learn day after day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u105	Madam President, we have been here for some time and the essence of what we have heard up to now may be lost in words. That is the essence of course that if we had known the document we are talking about, a document that was originally thrown into the market as a game changer, then perhaps we would not have been here, because it is an irrelevant document. That is, of course, the basic message of what has been said so far in terms of content. I thank the panel members for that clarity. It is therefore not about a note on the extension of life. It is about a note on metal fatigue which, as Lieutenant General Debaene said, is used to manage the fleet. From the opposition, therefore, a lot of misunderstandings have been spread about this document in order not to use another word. It is good that this misunderstanding has clearly been overcome here. I have one final question. Since efforts are being made here to undermine the credibility of both notes, the internal and external audit, I have one question for both parties. Do you have the impression that if you had more time, you could have come to other and more relevant findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u106	Mr De Roover, I have a different feeling than you do. Above all, we can decide on the following. In the context of a clear political decision, the military summit says that all the other information that was available was being muffled away, because there was already a political decision. It can't be. This means that if new elements emerge, for example the lifetime of our F-16s, a political decision cannot be reviewed, cannot be discussed. That is also what I hear from colleagues from CD&V and Open Vld. Stilan only stands the N-VA if she believes the army summit and thinks it can happen that really important information is pushed aside in order not to have a political debate. That's bad. That's what this is about, ladies and gentlemen. That's today's discussion. It is an important point of today's discussion. It happened for political reasons, although certain soldiers, and we are probably going to hear them today, have themselves stressed that there was a political problem, because it cannot be said that it was not seen coming. Mr Bogaert is right. It was seen in the army that it was political. And yet it was decided to keep information in the house. That is a really important problem. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard that during the audits the cabinet, and so let us be clear to the Minister, even if the minister still has a little control over his cabinet, has directly intervened. They called to tell me the e-mails had to be checked. That's just said here. That's bad. That is a second very important point. Third point which I think is important: Mr Compernol, you started by saying that there are so many documents, five to six hundred thousand, that we cannot verify them all. Mr General, these are fifteen billion documents! I understand that many documents are circulating within the army, but these are the few documents that eventually call into question a decision to invest fifteen billion public dollars! I say to you, having been through a lot of debates in Parliament, that for 15 billion we can do a lot of things. On behalf of a few billion, the Parliament is justified by cuts in pensions, social security, etc. The majority of us have been holding this speech for years. And you ask us to accept here that there are five or six hundred thousand documents... no! Let us be clear, General, these documents were of particular importance! These were documents that demonstrated the possibility of extending the use of F-16s. I don't think you can hide behind the huge number of existing documents. I believe that a political decision was not to want to see these documents and that you said to yourself "policy has decided and, we, we close our eyes", despite the fact that some of your colleagues have warned you that this may be political information. That, in my opinion, is the lesson that should be learned from this morning's auditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u107	Madam President, I have two brief comments. Firstly, with regard to the investigation, the internal investigation and the audit. I find it incomprehensible that not all the mailboxes of important persons in this file have been examined. The research assignment was to bring out the truth. If this does not take a deep look at the mailboxes of the minister's closest staff, then there is a problem. Secondly, Chief of Staff, I greatly appreciate and respect you. However, you state that the decision not to renew has been taken on the basis of the November 2015 study, which states in several places that this needs to be further examined and a feasibility study carried out. If you put that study forward as the basis for the decision, it is the conclusion that services such as DG MR and others, which take over the management of the fleet, have at least sent an incomplete file to the Cabinet. New studies may prove that today, but at that time this document was not validated externally and not updated. That's gonna keep me in trouble. I hope that in future the Chief of Staff will monitor the validation and updating of large and important investment files and that such errors will not repeat themselves in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u108	Madam President, I must confess that I would not have spoken again without this somewhat incomplete conclusion of my colleague De Roover. Of course, these documents and information should have been provided to us at that time. I think that parliamentarians can hear arguments, can understand situations that are complex and that they should not be oblivious to information, on the pretext that they would be "headless ducks", or what I still know, and unable to understand certain files. That's a first point. The second is still very important, and my colleague Mrs Fernandez is right. As you have told us, General Compernol, that the political decision has been taken, some senior officials involved in the matter have therefore preferred crucial information at the political level, because it would have "damaged" the political decision in question. I think it's very serious. Indeed, this decision, as you recalled, had been taken on the basis of elements that had been analysed in November 2015. And you are also telling us today that this new American SFP simulation did not exist at that time. It was only developed in 2016. It is therefore a new tool for analysing aircraft structures that were not in the possession of the army or, a fortiori, in the possession of political decision-makers. This new element should, of course, have been incorporated. It would clearly have been necessary to give the alert by saying: "Attention, there is a new element that needs to be assessed in the context of the acquisition of new fighter aircraft." In my view, a mistake has been made with regard to crucial information, and I maintain that the documents available to us contain calculations for each aircraft (even without knowing the complete history of each aircraft) which have been carried out in a precise manner through a whole series of technical elements and allow us to verify on a case-by-case basis whether or not it is possible to extend flight hours. We can then discuss whether or not to do so. But in my opinion, it is incorrect that this information was known. They weren't. They should have been passed on. They were new and indeed re-evaluated whether or not to purchase fighter aircraft immediately. This seems obvious to me in all the elements that we have mentioned, and I regret that as we gain technical knowledge on this issue, we are trying to make ourselves believe that it does not matter. Of course it did!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u109	Madam President, I note that some Members, not to mention Mr De Roover, wish to move on to the order of the day as soon as possible. By the way, they use exactly the same terminology as the officers who wanted Lockheed Martin's studies as little as possible, namely: "They are not relevant." I would like to point out that Lockheed Martin's studies were made on the basis of an analysis of the Belgian F-16 fleet. So it wasn't a theoretical exercise. They conclude that, since the intensity and load of the use of our appliances is lower than theoretically assumed, the service life can be extended by six years. Straight to body and load, can do that. We will discuss this later with the material managers. But once again, purely to body and load, that is possible. That is a first point. I hope you have read all the notes yourself. However, there is something wrong with the reasoning. I'm addressing the people of Defense. As the methodology of Lockheed Martin, which is already known from 2009... I have here a 2009 note explaining that a distinction can be made according to the intensity of use and that therefore one should not simply add up flight hours. This has existed since 2009. If it is decided in 2015 that we will not extend the lifespan of the F-16s, why is Lockheed Martin asked in 2016 for a projection to see to what extent the lifespan of the Belgian F-16 fleet can be extended? So the methodology is already known. Since 2009 you know that Lockheed Martin effectively builds up such a reasoning, namely: to distinguish between simply adding flight hours and looking at their load. In 2015, there is the IKW note and the political decision not to extend the lifespan and buy new aircraft. If Lockheed Martin's methodology is so irrelevant, why is there an assignment from the Defence Staff to Lockheed Martin to continue their methodology and make a projection for the Belgian F-16 fleet? Moreover, the outcome of that projection is very clear. This is only reflected in the February 2018 note, the analysis of the entire Belgian F-16 fleet, with the result "without talking about an operational lifetime extension" that we can continue for six years taking into account the minimum load of our F-16s.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u110	Mr. General Compernol, like you, we would have liked to have the information. In an ideal world where we usually operate in the Defence Committee, your services are mobilized to answer, day after day, our questions sometimes about the modernization of a barracks at a cost of 20,000 euros, sometimes about the training of the military at a cost of 50,000 euros. In short, in the Defence Committee, every week and on a very regular basis, the minister responds on the basis of answers that your services draft and that relate to modest budgets. Here, the amount at stake is colossal. We haven't seen a public market like this in Belgium for decades. When the information arrives in one of your departments, the minimum is to share it with the policy that decides: the prime minister and then the parliamentarians who check what the minister decides according to the information that everyone can have. In this case, and this is the suspicion that must be raised absolutely, Lockheed Martin's memo remained in the Defence structure just below you, in the Air Component. That's where it's worrying because all the senior Air Component officers knew this memo. Of course, the suspicion that needs to be raised here and in the coming days concerns the reasons why this has remained strictly in the Air Component. I hear your arguments that 600,000 documents are shared annually within Defence and that professionals must be trusted. Yes, but how would it have changed anything if this information came to you? How would things have been different if this information had rightly been considered politically difficult and had led you to take the initiative, together with all your generals, to transmit it to the minister and that, in peace, either in the Military Purchases Committee or in the Defence Committee, there had been an open debate with all the arguments, among others recalled by Lieutenant General Debaene, on the advisability of extending it? I do not agree with that, but I can hear the arguments. What is being criticized today for the Air Component and the Defence in general, so you, Mr. Compernol, and the Minister who both cover the Air Component, is that this information could not be shared. As a result, the democratic legitimacy of the decision to invest 15 billion in 34 fighter jets could not be democratically validated. We're not calling the purchase into question here. That's not the point. We question the way in which this purchase was decided. I think it was necessary that this memo be transferred to you, my general, to the minister and therefore to us. We could have democratically validated that decision. In fact, this has been repeated many times: if this memo had been transmitted, we would not be here today. The debate we have on the substance would have taken place in an hour and a half in the Military Procurement Committee, unfortunately in camera.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u111	Madam President, I note that many statements have been made, but there were no additional questions. I therefore believe that everything has been said and I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic866x.u112	If no one else from the panel wishes to respond, I will close the meeting.
