ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u1	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have asked you several times to express my concern about your plan to remove several scientific and technical laboratories across the country. Recently, the mayors of the province of Hainaut, alerted by your rationalization project, sent you a letter expressing their fears of loss of operationality and performance for all police services in the province. In this letter, they recall the usefulness of the local police services being able to continue to benefit from professional and rapid support from the federal police, both from the laboratory and from the RCCU (the police services specialized in the analysis of computer systems and telecommunications at the regional level). Among other things, they warn you of the risks that this loss would create for the work of the police. Under the guise of budgetary rationalization, you would seriously undermine all the investigative and research work of our local police. Today, thanks in particular to the support of the criminal raid team of the Mons-Tournai PJF, the police services have also gained professionalism in this complex investigative work. It is therefore essential, Mr Minister, that the achievements of the 1998 reform should not be sacrificed on the altar of budgetary restrictions. The safety of our fellow citizens depends on it. Minister, what follow-up have you given to the mail of the mayors of the province of Hainaut? What guarantees do you give them to maintain a technical and scientific support service, effective and professional, for the investigation work of local police?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u2	Mr. Thiébaut, I'm going to be pretty brief. The letter from the mayors of the province of Hainaut, to which you refer, has of course received my full attention. It is being analysed and will be the subject of a detailed response. For the rest, I have already replied several times that we are in the process of seeing how to reorganise these laboratories. Our reflection led to the following conclusion: make a distinction between the front office and the back office of the laboratories. The back offices of the laboratories, I have already told you several times, are grouped into five laboratories for the whole territory. We are going to ask for Europe's recognition of these five laboratories. The fourteen front offices will be maintained. It took a little time to make this decision. We're going to keep the front offices in every borough. The tasks that are managed by these will remain close to crime scenes, but data will be transferred to back offices. I think this is a good compromise between efficiency and local approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u3	The mayors are getting a little impatient because the mail was sent around March 15th. Being myself a mayor of the province of Hainaut, I am aware of what they think. I therefore invite you to reply as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u4	Mr President, Minister, a recent study shows that the presence of illegal weapons in our territory remains a worrying problem. It shows, in particular, that organized crime remains highly equipped with various weapons and is leading new supply chains, particularly from Libya, Sudan and Ukraine. This situation is all the more worrying given the links between terrorism and great banditry. Minister, what are the police measures taken to dry up this arms trade? What means are deployed to dismantle the weapons supply circuits of great banditry?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u5	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, as you point out in your question, illegal arms trafficking is a phenomenon that has long been international or even transnational. The threat from countries that so far constitute hotbeds of conflict is well identified. Like the war in the Balkans, at the end of the last century, there is a latent risk that these regions will become, for decades to come, sources of proliferation of all types of weapons in the criminal environment. This problem requires a multi-national and multidisciplinary approach, Belgium has committed itself as a co-pilot and leader of actions within the European Union project EMPACT (European multi-disciplinary platform against criminal threats) involving joint actions by the Member States of the European Union in order to limit this threat. In concrete terms, local law enforcement services are strengthening their capacity, local order is being restored and legal instruments are being developed to enable the exchange of information and intelligence with these countries. With the support of Europol, Frontex and the Internal Security Fund (ISF), profiles are also developed on the basis of an in-depth risk analysis in order to prevent or, at the very least, obstruct the transport channels of the arsenal within the European space. The integrated and information-led approach via Europol remains, of course, the driving force behind reducing or disrupting international arms trafficking. Under the National Security Plan (NSP), an ongoing multidisciplinary programme promotes the in-depth search for illegal firearms at the national level, the international component of which coordinates active participation in all joint EMPACT actions and operations. As far as resources are concerned, the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organized Crime has a Weapons Section, which currently has four GTFs, including the PNS firearms programme manager. This section also fulfils its commitment within the EMPACT-EU Policy Cycle. It provides strategic image, provides expertise and operational support in the field, executes firearms tracing and implements operational coordination of international requests. I would add that, thanks to the successful optimisation exercise of the current Commissioner General in the federal police force, work can be more important with less resources. At the deconcentrated level, each PJF has investigators dedicated to the execution of specialized information and instructions, including proactive research. Finally, each local police area has a firearms referendum that is useful primarily for the registration and control of legal firearms, but also provides a link to the supra-local and specialized level, an important element for the optimal flow of information. This is evidenced by the success of accompanying the problem of firearms within the framework of the Canal Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u6	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u7	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Ben Hamou's 25180 and 25185 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u8	The operator of the #3 reactor at the Tihange power plant has just announced – that was when I tabled my question of course – an extension of its closing period until June 30th. A review process began on 30 March and was originally scheduled to be completed on 15 May. It appears that civil engineering work has been identified as urgently needed. Can you tell us, first, what work is involved and, second, why this need had not been discovered before? Thirdly, what about any other reactors? Because after Doel 3 we have Tihange 3: are the other reactors possibly also concerned? Fourthly, for Doel 3 AFCN had pointed out the lack of maintenance, was it also the lack of maintenance for Tihange 3?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u9	Mr Nollet, at the beginning of October 2017, during a planned stop planned to perform a maintenance of the Doel 3 reactor during an inspection, a concrete degradation was found in the Doel 3 bunker. This bunker houses second-level backup systems, such as emergency pumps and binkerized diesel generators. As indicated in my answer to your question No. 21932 following this discovery, it was intended that special attention should be paid, at the next scheduled stop, to the premises housing the steam valve trains of the other reactors, since they are not accessible in operation. However, know for your information that these premises are systematically inspected at each stop planned and that, depending on the results of these inspections, repairs are carried out if necessary. The operator therefore carried out this inspection as part of the planned stop at Tihange 3. This revealed damage to the concrete of the bunker building's ceiling at the valve vapour escape spaces. The operator forwarded the results of its inspection to the safety authority, which subsequently visited the site to conduct a reactive inspection, in the presence of concrete engineers from the Wallonia public service who had already participated in the inspection at Doel 3. The initial conclusions show that the extent of degradation in Tihange 3 is significantly less than in Doel 3. However, repairs to the ceilings are necessary and will be carried out during this planned stoppage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u10	Thank you, Minister. I see the type of work. These are the same problems as Doel 3 on a smaller scale, of course. It can also be seen that this is related to use, i.e. aging, and that this was not planned. My question was also about the other reactors than Tihange 3. What is the situation for these? Everything left Doel 3, which prompted the verification for the other plants. However, I remember that during our exchange on Doel 3, you said that we would check this when a complete closure would take place, but at first sight there was no problem elsewhere. Now, we see in Tihange 3, that there is a complete closure, that there is a real problem as well. I therefore ask myself the question about the other power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u11	For the other power stations, I have to say the same thing. At every stop planned, we do the inspection. It should be noted that concrete degradation is never critical and can be repaired. That is why we are not stopping the other power plants. But it is clear that during each planned stop, the concrete inspection will be planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u12	And for Tihange 3, is it like Doel 3, a lack of maintenance that is pointed out? For what had bothered me about Doel 3, is that you intervened – via AFCN – saying that it was problematic because the origin was in a lack of maintenance. I guess we can have the same reasoning about Tihange 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u13	I cannot confirm this, but I will shortly provide you with the answer to this question. Preventive maintenance is also done when a plant is shut down. What does "preventive" mean? We do an inspection of the concrete and we see that we have to maintain it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u14	But on Doel 3, they should have intervened earlier; that was what had been said at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u15	That's right. As we had to stop the Doel 3 reactor, we decided to inspect, which is a preventive action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u16	Yes, but as on Doel 3, AFCN says we should have seen him earlier, intervened and been more proactive, I think that on Tihange too, they should have reacted earlier and corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u17	I don't have this information here, but I'll provide it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u18	President: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u19	Mr Minister, West Flemish prosecutor Frank Demeester pointed out in various media on Tuesday 3 April the increased workload for the West Flemish police forces through the actions against illegal migrants. This year alone I mention the figures that were known to me on April 3rd.The police found 1 233 people without valid residence papers in West Flanders, of which in March 2018 nearly 800 transmigrants. That's twice as many as two years ago. The coordinated actions, with increased results, can only be achieved by increasing the workload of the police areas concerned for these tasks. According to the prosecutor, the administrative handling of the case, such as fingerprinting, taking photos and descriptions, can take several hours. As a result, these shifts may not be available for other tasks. In addition, the prosecutor believes that time and information is lost due to the current working methods. The prosecutor therefore calls for the establishment of a central processing centre in West Flanders. The police tasks could be carried out there. The fact that both the Justice and the police are operating in a single place would facilitate cooperation between the two and improve the fight against trafficking in human beings. The West Flemish police zones would already be a requesting party to such a central handling centre. In response to the communication of 3 April, your spokesperson stated that you were open to the idea of a central handling centre. For the time being, mobile processing teams are being chosen to be deployed from Brussels to help deal with the illegal migrants who have been arrested. This method was chosen over a central processing centre, because transmigration is not a purely West Flemish problem. Finally, your spokesperson announced that the next few weeks will see how the police can be better supported in the administrative tasks. Mr President, first of all, what processes could be speeded up if we could work together in a single central processing centre? Which services would be best involved? Secondly, have talks been held in the past to set up a central processing centre in West Flanders? Can you tell us for what reasons that has not yet been introduced? Thirdly, your spokesperson said that the problem of illegal immigrants is not an exclusively West Flanders problem. Can you provide figures of the number of transmigrants taken since 1 January 2018 per province and per month? Fourthly, how many people are these mobile handling teams? Are these teams assembled with federal police or local police? Fifthly, what is the annual cost of the current mobile handling teams? What would be the annual cost of a central processing centre? Sixth, at which locations did the mobile teams provide assistance in 2017 and in the first months of 2018? Seventh, have there been any discussions with competent West Flemish authorities about this center? Eighth, what concrete support for administrative tasks will you offer the police zones? Which police areas are eligible for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u20	Minister, at the beginning of April the West Flemish prosecutor repeated his plea for the establishment of a central processing centre in West Flanders. The aim is to make the long and time-consuming administrative handling of arrested migrants more efficient by centralising everything. Policemen could search there organisedly, record fingerprints and draw up files. You responded to this call by saying that you were open to this idea, but that this might not be the most efficient approach. Mobile handling teams are currently working. In particular, you called for better support for local police in administrative tasks and for mutual assistance where necessary. You also said that the transmigrants are no longer a purely West Flemish problem. This would be why the national Task Force on Trafficking in Human Beings would work more intensively. The intention is to put together the intel from the police and the parquets. Yet the problem also remains in West Flanders persistently because of the numbers of transmigrants, people without papers who were found and arrested. We also read some nuance about these figures in April. Doctors of the World say that these figures are too high because they would often be the same group of 30 to 60 people who are being arrested over and over again and for which pvs are being drawn up over and over again. As a result, this figure is higher than the effective number of people arrested. Mr Minister, first of all, has there been any consultation on a central processing centre in West Flanders? How do you see things? Secondly, to what extent and where have mobile handling teams been working in recent weeks and months? Thirdly, can you explain your intention to achieve a more intense functioning of the National Task Force on Trafficking in Human Beings? Fourthly, in order to get an objective view of the claim that the problem is moving inland, can you provide figures on the number of transmigrants arrested for some critical zones, for example for the period February-March 2018 compared to the period February-March 2017? Fifthly, what is your reaction to the Doctors of the World's thesis that the figures should be related, because they would often be about the same people?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u21	Mr President, I will first answer Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's first question and Mr Vermeulen's questions 1, 2, 5 and 7. The theme has already been addressed several times by local authorities and the governor, mainly with regard to the location of the central processing centre and the format. I would add that we have organized a central processing centre in Veurne during the dismantling of the Calais camps. This means whether or not a permanent occupation should be provided for, integrated or not. Due to the many targeted actions and the presence of numerous transit migrants, prosecutor des Konings Demeester has put the concept of a central handling centre back on the agenda. The establishment of a central handling centre depends on certain critical success factors, such as the possible permanent capacity of police officers, whether the centre is federally organised or integrated with local police and finding a suitable location with the agreement of local administrative authorities. After all, when serving the order to leave the country, the transit agent must be exempt from service at the place of service. This means that all transit migrants found in West Flanders in that one municipality or city will be exempted. If joint work could be carried out in a central treatment centre, the administrative handling of the migrant found could be facilitated. It concerns, among other things, the monitoring, the execution of the triptych, the conduct of the interview and the transfer of the migrant. The federal police, the local police, the Foreign Office, the Voogdij, the parish, the local authorities and interpreters are involved. The cost of a central treatment centre depends on several factors. On the one hand, there are staff costs, which will have to be calculated according to staffing and the period of occupation, either permanent or non-permanent, and on the other there is a logistical cost. We are thinking of a suitable and equipped building, equipment and equipment for staff, vehicles, maintenance and reception on site. I now answer Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's second question and Mr Vermeulen's sixth question. To date a total of 33 mobile handling teams have been delivered. The mobile handling teams provided assistance in Antwerp 1, in Nivelles 2, in Brussels 2, in Tournai 3, in Leuven 4, in Dendermonde 3, in Ghent 10 and in Bruges 8. In your third question, you refer to the task force on human trafficking, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. That is the task force for transmigration, which was created by an initiative of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. At the request of the Minister for the Interior, the Task Force initiated a very close cooperation between the Federal Police Executive Board and various checks on transmigration and monitors developments throughout the country. The framework paper of the "Integral Security" government states that the various checks on transmigration must always take account of the smuggling of human beings, which goes hand in hand with it. Since we do not have specific figures per parking lot, I give you the interceptions carried out by the road police. There is a decrease in 2018 due to the supervision of the private security company. For example, during the period February-March of this year Brabant's road police intercepted 53 transit migrants. During the months of February and March 2017, they intercepted 87 transit migrants. The Hainaut Road Police intercepted 37 transit migrants in February and March 2018. During the same period, 57 transit migrants were intercepted in 2017. The East Flanders Road Police intercepted 68 transit migrants in February and March of this year. In 2017, there were 103 in the same period. Transit migration is not just a West Flemish problem. For example, 420 transit migrants were intercepted during the first three months of this year in East Flanders. In Flemish Brabant there were 365 in the same period. In the province of Antwerp, 255 transit migrants are involved during the first three months of this year. 206 transit migrants were intercepted in the Brussels-Capital Region. In the Walloon provinces the problem is much less prominent. I've got the numbers by county, too. We shall have it added to the report. You can see in those documents that a total of 867, in February 619 and in March 983 transit migrants were intercepted in January. Indeed, the figures do not refer to unique persons. However, it concerns more than 30 to 60 people. For the first three months of 2018, more than 65% of the undocumented persons intercepted was a unique person. This means that there are about 800 people out of a total of 1 233 intercepts. Whether it is the first interception or yet another interception of the same person, the workload for the police remains the same. Time and again, the administrative handling process must be completed and reception provided for pending the decision. At these moments, the capacity of the police is mortgaged. The mobile handling teams shall be composed of 9 staff members. For this purpose, 40 staff were added to the effective of the central reserve of the federal police, which includes MATTA. The cost of the mobile handling teams includes 40 staff and investments for live scans and bus, among others. Finally, the police areas can count on the support of the MATTA. They can provide support by taking fingerprints, carrying out searches, monitoring persons and possibly transferring persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and the extensive figures you have provided. I will certainly look at it later to draw some conclusions from that. The proposal of the West Flemish prosecutor for a central processing centre is understandable. However, it is equally understandable that the funds will be used as efficiently and effectively as possible. If one considers that such a centre is not yet possible or is not yet the best thing to do for the best results - you have referred to the permanent occupation and integration between the federal and local police, especially the location - then this is something to be found. If it works with the mobile handling teams now, that's fine. As long as this is done efficiently and effectively, it is not the means that is important to me, but the result. The presence of illegal immigrants is, of course, not an exclusively West Flemish problem. We are proud of our province, but we do not want to say that there are more burdens and problems in our province than elsewhere. However, I would like to make it clear that the illegal immigrants are not just here. The fact that they refuse to apply for asylum and therefore do not want to stay here means that they want to go elsewhere. It is known that the destination is Great Britain. One can take a plane to Great Britain, but most of the illegal immigrants want to go there with a truck or a boat. The figures you have already given me in reply to a written question show that illegal immigrants are mainly arrested when entering the port of Zeebrugge, but hardly in the port of Ghent or Antwerp. There are also a lot of illegal transmigrants in the Maximilian Park and the Brussels-North railway station and in the highway parkings. You referred to it yourself. They want to go either through Belgian ports to Great Britain or through the Netherlands or France. I call for the greatest possible commitment so that the problem does not escalate. We have said before that we do not want to escalate the problems, let alone create a second Calais.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. What is not quite clear to me is whether the thought trail of a central processing centre is now completely deserted, or whether it is still on the table? You say that a number of critical factors still need to be examined. If I interpret your body language correctly, will that instrument be examined further? We will follow up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u24	Mr President, Minister, you will recall that at the committees of 29 November and 13 December last, I asked you about the transposition into Belgian law of the recommendations of WENRA which already date from 2014. You acknowledged with regret that the AFCN was lagging behind in this matter. You also stated that the objective was to have a draft text by the end of March 2018. We are now in May. Minister, where are we on this file? What are the next steps and timetable? Can we receive a copy of the project that is or will be submitted for consultation with the stakeholders? In your answer, you stated that it might be necessary for Electrabel to consider new events that could lead to sometimes significant changes in the installations, in particular Doel 1 and Doel 2 and Tihange 1, namely the oldest power plants. The press also reported on the difficulties our power plants face in meeting the new standards of being able to withstand combinations of seismic or critical hazards. Do you confirm that? What is the transition period offered by the PSAN to operators to get in order? Do you confirm what you said in your response on November 29, that work on managing a cumulative earthquake at certain other events will have to be done anyway before the end of 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nollet, with respect to your questions regarding the status of the regulatory project, I can inform you that a first version of the work to amend the Royal Order of 30 November 2011 on the safety prescription for nuclear installations has been finalized by the AFCN. As planned, it was forwarded at the end of March 2018 for consultation with stakeholders, ENGIE Electrabel, which is the only operator affected by the amendments. His comments are expected by the end of May. Comments and discussions with this stakeholder could lead to clarifications in the proposal. The developed version will then follow the formal submission path to the various advisory bodies. This is likely to happen in the second part of 2018. Subsequently, this project will be submitted to the federal government for approval. It is not customary to distribute copies of the preliminary work of new regulations to Parliament. If you wish to obtain the working version completed by the AFCN, I invite you to send your request. Regarding the possible impacts on older nuclear production units (Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1), there is no change from the answer given to your question no. 22442. For transition periods, at this stage of the process, they will depend on the changes required to meet the new requirements. This is one of the points to be addressed in consultation with the operator. For Doel 1 and 2, seismic reinforcements are actually planned by the end of 2019. These are checks and reinforcements linked to an approach based on successful paths and the occurrence of an earthquake in the long term of another accident (?). But I would like to point out to you that the new requirements for the seismic resistance of a nuclear power plant go beyond what has been requested within this time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u26	Thank you, Minister. I will ask the Agency for the text, as you invite me to do. However, with regard to the last part of your answer, I am a little concerned because it suggests that some of the amendments could be translated into concrete terms beyond 2019. I am all the more concerned that a document has circulated saying that Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 should be brought into compliance by 2025 at the latest. 2025 is the closing date of the power plants! That doesn't make any sense. I wanted to make sure that we were set on 2019 as the maximum date. And you show that this could be done at a later date. I ask you not to accept this kind of derogation from the principle and to set 2019 as the maximum date. I would remind you that it was in 2014 that WENRA issued these guidelines. I will return to this issue once I have analysed the text that the Agency has forwarded to me. But I am already asking you not to compromise on the period of completion of the work and not to go back to formulas of the kind that we highlighted in these internal negotiating or discussion documents mentioning implementation by 2025, which makes no sense, except that of cynicism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u27	Mr Minister, BR2 is one of the most powerful but also one of the oldest research reactors in Western Europe. It has been the subject of an audit mission on the management of its ageing. The findings of the audit were far from positive and many requirements related to non-compliance with the latest IAEA standards. Many avenues for necessary improvements had been identified. At our exchange at the end of November last year, you announced that a detailed report would be published at the beginning of 2018 and I announced that I would come back at that time to see where we would be. Could you give an overview of the content of this report and the improvements made to the BR2 following this IAEA audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u28	Mr Nollet, from 7 to 14 November 2017, on the initiative of AFCN, an IAEA mission took place in Belgium. During the workshop, a team of experts audited the ageing management of the BR2 research reactor. The IAEA team made a series of recommendations and suggestions to strengthen the management of the ageing of this reactor. Immediately after the end of the mission, the main findings of this audit were published on the AFCN website. The detailed report is now available on the AFCN website. In 2017, ENSREG also organized a Thematic Peer Review on the Management of Aging of Power Reactors and Research Reactors. AFCN published a national report on this issue at the end of 2017. In this national report, the operator of BR2 was asked to take steps to improve the management of ageing, including the follow-up of recommendations made by IAEA experts. A conclusion drawn on the basis of the Thematic Peer Review and the IAEA mission is that the ageing management of the BR2 reactor is advanced in comparison with other research reactors in Europe. Nevertheless, certain improvements are certainly possible, for example extending it to a number of ancillary installations for the production of radioisotope, experimental equipment and construction structures with a safety function. This is why a new action plan has been drawn up by the SCK.CEN and this will obviously be followed by the AFCN. At the end of February 2018, a first meeting was held between the AFCN and the operator on this action plan. In mid-April, this action plan was submitted to the Agency for validation. The Agency has recently made two comments, but the plan should be formally adopted in the short term. The operator, proactive, has also begun to implement some improvements to this plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u29	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u30	Mr President, Minister, at our last discussion on the subject at the end of February you announced to me that ENGIE Electrabel would finally have a full file in the course of March. I therefore come back to you hoping that you will be able to close the case permanently and hope, of course, that you will reassure us completely in this matter. Has one of our nuclear power plants been, through subcontractors, an indirect customer of Kobe Steel? What are the components that may be affected? Have you received all the guarantees that direct falsification - particularly on steam generators - and indirect falsification - via subcontractors would not pose any risk to our plants and therefore to workers and residents?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u31	Mr Nollet, before answering your question in detail, it is important to remind you that the overall impact of this issue on security has so far been limited. Kobe Steel's latest public information indicates that a total of 688 Kobe Steel customers have been identified as having received non-compliant products. For 96 per cent of these, the security check was carried out. In no case has a suspension of use or an immediate recall of the products been required. As I have already told you, AFCN has asked ENGIE Electrabel, as soon as the falsifications and frauds within Kobe Steel are revealed, to determine whether certain components of Belgian nuclear power plants are involved. ENGIE Electrabel has initiated in-house actions to verify whether they are directly sourced from Kobe Steel and from each of its suppliers of large nuclear components in order to determine whether Belgian power plants are affected by this scandal. Two months ago, I explained to you that ENGIE Electrabel was able to confirm very quickly that Kobe Steel was not one of their direct contractors and that the three major subcontractors (now four since the separation of Areva between Framatome and Orano in early 2018) having supplied, since the 2000s, large components to nuclear power plants did not supply directly from Kobe Steel, with one exception, but for which it could be shown that the equipment was not fraudulent. For several months, these grade 1 contractors have asked all of their subcontractors to verify whether they have purchased from Kobe Steel. Obtaining complete responses from subcontractors from these suppliers takes longer than expected. All of Orano's and MHI's information was received, which confirms that the metal parts supplied by these companies are not affected by this scandal. Framatome and Westinghouse received 95 and 90 % replies respectively from their subcontractors, confirming that the documents they provided were not affected by this file. Subcontractors whose complete replies are still awaited did not announce that Kobe Steel had identified them as being affected by this case. So far, no falsification has been detected on a nuclear metal piece, either in Belgium or in the rest of the world. Although this case is less serious than announced in the first information messages, ENGIE Electrabel is still waiting for a few subcontractors from their suppliers to confirm that they are not concerned. Of course, the file continues to be closely monitored by the AFCN. We are coming to the end of a rather complex process, including many stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u32	Minister, thank you for reminding you of the retroacts. I didn't take them back, but it'll always be useful for the readers. Then you continue to provide us with reassuring information and that's so much better. There are still some data that have yet to be received. Previously, you announced the month of March as a useful date to question you again. In your opinion, what would be the possible time frame for a new question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u33	We have four major subcontractors. Two of them received 100% responses, while the other two received 95% and 90%, respectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u34	Can I ask you again at the end of June?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u35	Let us say at the end of June, hoping that the complete answers will be received.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u36	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u37	Thank you, Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, on April 16, 2018, you presented to the press the first results of the implementation of the PNR (Passenger Name Record) Act, which came into force on January 15, 2018. On this occasion, you have officially set up the Belgian Passenger Information Unit or BelPIU and some information on the results generated by this indiscriminate method of collecting personal data has been disclosed by you. 173 matches were detected on the basis of a watchlist. Where, minister, my six questions. 1. Knowing that at this stage, only air traffic NRPs are collected, could you give me a detailed picture of the number of these matches that affect – respectively – possible terrorist acts, suspicions of human trafficking, armed attacks, sexual exploitation of children or other potentially criminal acts? I ask you this question, because the reason given for this system was, of course, the fight against terrorism. 2. Could you explain how the profiling of the 241 other matches was obtained? That's what you announced at your press conference. With which other federal databases – or other – have PNR data been correlated to obtain these profiles? 3. Unless I am mistaken, during the lengthy discussions at the time of the PNR vote, it has always been said that the 19 personal data are transferred at least 24 hours before the plane takes off or the train, boat or bus starts. From the discussions that took place during your press conference, it appears – it is the press that reports – that there is a 48-hour delay. What is the current time frame for transferring this information and does it respect the spirit and letter of the PNR Act? 4. The Decree of 18 July 2017 on the obligations of airlines exempts "air carriers which do not operate flights on a specific schedule and which do not have technical infrastructures enabling them to use common data formats and protocols". I'm learning it. This is therefore an important exception. How much, in percentage, do you estimate the number of these flights in Belgium? 5. A pilot project to collect PNR data from Eurostar passengers was announced during your meeting with the press. This project concerns a country outside the Schengen area today and will soon be outside the European Union. Could you tell me where you are in your consultations with your other European colleagues and the commercial companies concerned for the implementation of the PNR system for high-speed trains, boats and buses? Will you maintain for them the possibility of buying tickets at the last minute, what the common market imposes on us? 6. Have you been formally informed of the application by a number of associations to the Constitutional Court for annulment of the PNR Act? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u38	Mr President, Mr Hellings, it is important to stress, as was done at the press conference, that not all the matches highlighted by the application that we use and which was developed to be extremely precise have necessarily given rise to concrete action. Of the 173 matches detected on the basis of a correlation with the extraction of a data bank, part of them were classified as false positives, which means that the identified passenger was ultimately not the wanted person. Other passengers, on the other hand, are real matches and have been the subject of more in-depth research within the unit. Even in these cases, it was noted that a number of affected passengers cancelled the flight just prior to departure or that no specific measures were useful. It is possible to correlate each match with one of the phenomena of serious crime and terrorism retained in the scope of the law of 25 December 2016 in its article 8. All matches come from profiles or matches that have been established to combat these serious offences for which the Passenger Information Unit is competent. I do not currently have the correlation figures for each of these matches with a specific criminal phenomenon, but these statistics will be the subject of an annual report from me to the House of Representatives, as mentioned in the law. Searching through criteria, contrary to the confrontation of the passenger database and the extractions of databases directly accessible by the relevant IPU services, involves the search for persons not yet known by the law enforcement agencies and who may have a link to the category of criminal facts for which the profile was drawn. The figure of 241 matches obtained through profiling does not mean that 241 passengers were considered suspects but that in 241 cases a flight pattern considered suspect was identified and a more specific search was carried out. This research has only been deepened and enriched in some of these cases, where necessary. In our debates on the PNR law, we are discussing a transmission of passenger data via a push that would be carried out within 48 to 24 hours before the plane takes off. This concept was specified in the Royal Decree of 18 July 2017 implementing the PNR law for the air sector which establishes that the first push must be carried out 48 hours before the departure of the aircraft. It is supplemented by a second push after the end of the boarding procedure. This timing choice was made within the framework of the intensive consultation procedures that took place with all stakeholders at the time of the design of the Royal Decree. It obviously respects the spirit of the PNR law in the sense that it was carried out with the aim of maximizing the effectiveness of the fight against serious crime and terrorism, which is of course the objective of the processing of passenger data. The unregulated air carriers to which you refer are indeed in the viewfinder of the PNR law but are an exception with regard to the common data formats and protocols defined in the European Commission Implementing Decisions (2017/759) of 28 April 2017. The reason is simply that they are small companies whose IT infrastructure is not comparable to that of regular airlines. We are currently working on the development of a technical solution adapted to them. I do not have precise figures on this niche in the air sector, but it concerns the transport of a very small number of passengers. Under Belgian law, passenger data are also collected from the international high-speed trains sector, the international bus sector and the international maritime passenger transport sector. Belgium is very active in the European debates on the NRP. Although the European PNR Directive only applies to the aviation sector on a mandatory basis, it opens the possibility in its preamble to extend these provisions to other sectors. Belgium has chosen the option of including other international modes of transport in the aim of the law and other Member States also wish to involve other means of travel. It is therefore natural that we should work together and develop common approaches to these other sectors, particularly between neighbouring countries. In the area of international high-speed trains, a task force has been set up to bring together Belgium, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom. The Task Force has adopted a series of common guidelines for the implementation of the joint PNR project within the ST sector, in consultation with the sector itself. The objective of such an approach is, of course, to neutralise the commercial impact on the carriers concerned, for example, not to eliminate the possibility of issuing a last-minute ticket. This possibility has never been called into question. We have also consulted the international bus sector since the beginning of our work. Our next meeting with this sector will take place at the end of May. I very much hope that it will also be the subject of a transnational approach. It will therefore depend on the respective priorities of our neighbours. As far as the international passenger shipping sector is concerned, our consultations also started at national level last summer. We are aware of the interest of several European states in implementing PNR in this sector. A common approach has yet to be implemented. I have, of course, been informed of the application for annulment lodged by the ASBL League of Human Rights with the Constitutional Court as soon as it was filed last July. At present, the procedure is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u39	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The first question was about the figures. I will pay close attention to the follow-up when you forward this report to the House. The reason why you took this very intrusive measure for privacy – nineteen personal data – was obviously for the fight against terrorism. It should not, after a reasonable period of time, be found that the NRP has led to the discovery of criminal phenomena, although serious, but not as serious as terrorism. This is therefore the question of proportionality, which the Constitutional Court is asking today. We'll be very careful to see what we found out from this NRP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u40	For example, the traffic in cigarettes that you will probably discover with this NRP is something very annoying but it does not justify taking into account such intrusive measures for privacy. On hearing your answers, I note that we have moved from an exception to two exceptions. The first known exception is the train. As you repeated in your answer at the moment, it is always possible – and it will probably always be possible – even if a PNR for trains is introduced, that people can buy a last-minute ticket. The reason you extended the PNR from planes to high-speed trains is because Ayoub El Khazzani, the terrorist currently awaiting trial, entered the Brussels-Midi station to carry out an attack in the Thalys. I'll remind you that Ayoub El Khazzani bought a last-minute ticket. I mean, if the PNR system had been implemented when Ayoub El Khazzani entered the Thalys, that terrorist would not have been discovered by the PNR. No, since last minute tickets...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u42	If there had been a PNR at the time he entered the train at the Midi station, the data concerning Ayoub El Khazzani would not have been transferred to the BelPIU 24 hours in advance, and you could not have correlated the presence of this terrorist in this Thalys. I hear today that you are maintaining this exception. The objective to be achieved, which is to create a bundle of information about potential terrorists through the NRP, is therefore not achieved here. That was your security goal. I now understand that there is a second exception, namely that for aircraft, carriers that do not have an adequate computer system should not transfer PNR data. This means that today there is a second hole in the net that you have launched in search of these terrorists by capturing the personal data of all passengers. Belgium is a country very connected by various means of transport. I repeat that this is why we consider it disproportionate to collect passenger data, whereas you should rather just try to better capture crucial information about dangerous people. I also hear that the train pilot project is being launched with a number of neighbouring countries, with the exception of Germany. It is therefore confirmed that Germany, and Deutsche Bahn in particular, which is an important railway operator in Europe...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u43	Mr Hellings, may I ask you to keep it brief in your reply? It's about a reply, not a second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u44	I am not asking a supplementary question, Madam Chair, and I am finishing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u45	Your reply should be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u46	You agree with me that the minister interrupted me. I conclude, Madam President, Mr Minister, by noting that Germany is still not part of your pilot project, which means that there is a real distancing on the part of an economically and politically important country, an ally of Belgium, from your initiatives to include the bus, the train and the boat in the European PNR system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u47	You know, Minister, that technological progress cannot be stopped. The access of data ensures that we can quickly retrieve information with all possible devices, but also send emails from the location where we are, make payments and so on. In order to provide good and rapid service to citizens, public administrations must also respond to the new technologies. This is where the Blue Light Mobile story fits the police. You have now ensured that 6 000 police officers receive priority communication when conditions make normal mobile traffic difficult. Blue Light Mobile can also be used for other applications. There is the possibility to request number plates, consult databases, run identity checks and even draw up reports. Through the ASTRID network, secure information can be provided to the troops on site. Mr Minister, are there any applications used by police forces besides traditional calls? If so, what applications? Are there any police or police areas that draw up files through this possibility? Is it being considered whether Blue Light Mobile can be integrated, for example in the ISLP?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u48	Blue Light Mobile is already being used to provide access to central applications of the integrated police, i.e. access to the databases of the national police and office applications of the integrated police such as Mail SharePoint and social network and to devolved police applications or locally developed applications. That's already operational today. About thirty police zones use Blue Light Mobile to access devolved or locally developed applications. In this way, they do indeed have the possibility to use ISLP, which enables them to draw up minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think we're gonna have to go further down this road. It is good that the police can be close to the citizen in this way. If we are aiming for larger zones, this could be a good step towards ensuring proximity to the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u50	President: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u51	Mr President, Minister, two years ago, in 2016, I already raised the issue of the misuse of parking tickets for people with disabilities. Since then, I have called several times for a solution. I advocated, among other things, that community guards and other parking guards should be given the power to act against such violations and also access to DG Han's database in order to verify the validity of the cards, as the police can already do. You replied positively at that time and thought that was a good idea. I have asked a few questions about this, the last time in the autumn of 2017. At that time, you informed us that you were working on a bill and that this would come soon. That bill would also give parking guards and community guards the power to identify those infringements. It is now May 2018. You said there would be an adjustment by the end of 2017. Why isn't there an adjustment yet? Is the government still working on that or not? What's the status? When can we expect this to be approved here or in another committee? When will it enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, the draft law was adopted at first reading in the government. The Council of State's opinion is in. The adjustments have been made and I think that we will achieve the approval of the Council of Ministers at second reading in the very near future and submit the draft to Parliament, after which it will be in your hands to get it approved. I would, however, like to make it clear that the decision-makers can only check for the presence of a valid card, without being responsible for the management of the data of the persons to whom such cards are delivered. The latter is, after all, the responsibility of the FPS Social Security Office. It is the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities who, in addition to the delivery of the cards, also manages them. I hope to get the draft by the government at second reading in the very near future and then he can come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u53	I have already asked her the question that falls within the competence of Mrs Demir. Again, I follow the file regularly. It is really the intention to find a solution. She'd be a part of that, too. I hope so. It said earlier, in its policy paper, that it was in favour of this proposal. So I don't see any problems. I note that it is taking a while, but I hope that we will be able to approve it in Parliament before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u54	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 25225, 25238, 25361, 25362, 25363 and 25367 by Mrs Jadin have been postponed. Mr Flahaux was due to arrive later. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne moved to the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u55	Mr President, I would like to turn my question No 25402 into a written question, if it is appropriate for the minister or his staff to transmit the answer to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u56	That will be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u57	Mr President, thank you. Minister, the country's oldest nuclear reactor was unexpectedly shut down on Monday, April 23rd in the morning. Since I tabled the text of my inquiry, we have already had a subcommittee on nuclear safety on 23 April. So I had a series of clarifications. Your collaborator was also present in the subcommittee. Nevertheless, many questions remain about this new incident and the lessons to be learned. On the problem itself but also on the communication around it. I remember that you yourself pointed out in plenary as one of the problematic elements in this dossier, the way in which the communication was organised. The information that surprised me most in the subcommittee on nuclear safety is that it is still 6,000 litres of radioactive water that have fled. I did not expect such a figure in the subcommittee. Official communications, either through the spokesperson, Ms Scheerlinck or the head, Mr Moens, referred to "a few litres". But in fact, at Doel 1, it was 6,000 liters of water that fled. In 36 hours, it's not nothing! This is the information given at the sub-committee on 23 April. My package of questions therefore goes back to communication. Why, on April 23rd, is Electrabel talking about a simple maintenance problem? Electrabel, and this was confirmed in the subcommittee, was already aware of the fact that it was a problem of leakage. And this in the most radioactive part, which is more. So knowing it's a leak, why does Electrabel tell us about a maintenance problem? Not only, I agree with you about what you said about the time limit for communication – that's what you said in plenary – but the very content of the communication is misleading since it is a question of maintenance and not a leak in the radioactive part! My question also relates to the fact that the Federal Agency itself is informed that this is a leak, but that it does not communicate immediately. We have talked a lot about this in the subcommittee, but I would now like to take a political look at it with you. Do you find it normal that the Agency, once in possession of the information that there is a leak in the radioactive part, does not immediately communicate and warrant that it communicates five days later, citing the fact that the media pressure was too strong? You may recall that we have already had discussions on this. In my view, this attitude of the Agency is not acceptable because it means that it is sufficient or necessary to put pressure on the media to start communicating about a situation that potentially legitimately alerts people. It must therefore be considered that, for the Agency, a leak in a cooling system in the nuclear zone is only a problem if the press speaks of it. Minister, why didn't the Agency communicate until Saturday, five days after the incident? It's still late. If TVO hadn't revealed the information in his report, who would have? Mr President, I am a little longer than usual, but this is an inquiry and not a question. For once, I'm going a little deeper. This is all the more necessary after the information that has been transmitted to us in the subcommittee. As far as the incident itself is concerned, can it be said with precision and certainty today that the leak occurred on 23 April at 06:00 and not before? Can we be sure that nothing was already leaking unless it was identified before April 23rd? I would also like to know when the last similar check which could have detected this leak and which did not do so because it did not exist or because there was a breach. Has this leak been detected by an automatic system? Can you tell us exactly where the leak is? Could you locate it on a schematic? Let me now ask you a question that you may not be able to answer because it is not included in the text that has been tabled. Was the container that received these 6,000 litres large enough or did it have to be pumped to empty it regularly? What is, in fact, the capacity of this receptacle, of this leak collector, which, fortunately, has proved to be functional? What is the capacity of this holding pool? What is the exact origin of the leak? Does it result from a lack of maintenance or a delay in the necessary investments? Can we fix the pool? Have you been informed of this? Or, since the pipe is probably still buried in the concrete, will it be impossible to repair it, so that we will not be able to restart the Doel power plant? How can we ensure that technicians who come to close the leak will not be affected by radiation? I must point out that the subject of my inquiry has already been dealt with in the subcommittee on nuclear safety. At that time, we had not received a truly acceptable answer. How is it that an accident with such a high risk is classified as INES 0? We were told that this was the usual classification. However, there is some room for manoeuvre. My colleagues who spoke then considered that this was not normal. Smaller incidents are ranked 1 on this scale. Our neighbors also wonder. Six thousand liters are in the nuclear part. It is said that this is the first time this has happened. In any case, we were unable to identify the problem immediately. Fortunately, the leak was limited, but if it had been wider, the pattern would have been identical to the Three Mile Island incident. Frankly, I don't understand the INES 0 classification. In conclusion, since this is the first time that a leak has occurred in the nuclear part, I went to the archives and came across an accident that I consider to be similar, on 18 June 1988, at Tihange 1 plant. I'm curious to see if you'll answer me that this is the first time - and the only one! - that this kind of incident occurs. In short, many questions remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u58	Mr Nollet, on Monday, 23 April, at around 0600 hours, Engie-Electrabel - the operator of Doel 1 - found a leak in the reactor primary circuit, of the order of a few litres per minute. As required, he sought to confirm the leak using other methods. In addition, he informed Bel V, AFCN's subsidiary, of this event. At approximately 1140, in accordance with the reporting requirements for this type of occurrence, the operator informed the AFCN of the leak and the fact that the Doel 1 reactor will be shut down manually in order to locate the leak and make the necessary repairs. The operator communicated on 23 April on this Doel 1 judgment via the Engie Transparency website and by press release. Systems designed to compensate for water loss have worked perfectly. Therefore, the risk of the primary circuit emptying or losing the reactor refrigerant was excluded. The safety authority, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) and Bel V have since closely monitored the situation. While the reactors were at a hot shutdown – this is the situation of a shutdown reactor in which the pressure and temperature of the cooling fluid are maintained at values close to those of the power operation – the operator attempted to locate the leak. However, he failed to do so and had to put the reactor to a cold shutdown. The pressure and temperature of the cooling fluid were therefore significantly reduced in the afternoon to intensify this research. The cold shutdown had already significantly reduced the flow of the leak. It was no longer a matter of a leak, but of a few drops that escaped from the circuit. On Thursday, 26 April, the operator successfully located the leak using endoscopy. It was a crack at the level of a weld on a pipe of the upper-plenum-injection system connected to the primary circuit that is used to supply the reactor with cooling fluid in certain emergency situations. The water in this pipe is water from the primary circuit. The welding in question is located on the pipe segment, between a valve and the reactor tank. Welding is located in a hard-to-reach location where the radiation intensity is high, which complicates repair operations and prolongs their duration. For example, a complete discharge of the reactor is necessary to achieve these. However, the safety analysis for water loss has not been modified. Due to the location of the leak, the Safety Authority will monitor the course of the repair operations as well as the analysis of the causes of the leak with attention. The operator therefore decided to move forward with the revision, which was due to start on 29 May. This is a thorough maintenance. The end of this revision shall be maintained on 1 October. I should like to add that the Safety Authority does not decide on a restart date, which is the responsibility of the operator. However, on 23 April, the leak had not yet been located, which was finally done on 26 April. On 23 April, the operator apparently considered that the leak could be located and repaired in the short term. If the leak had been discovered in another place, this hypothesis could have been quite correct. Only after the discovery of the leak, i.e. Thursday, 26 April, in the afternoon, did additional information arrive. The Security Authority was informed of this discovery on Thursday, 26 April, in the afternoon. As part of the monitoring of Belgian nuclear installations, the Safety Authority regularly visits the site. In addition to regular monitoring, monitoring and inspections, the Safety Authority pays particular attention to events and incidents. In the case of Doel 1, Bel V, who follows up on this event in close cooperation with AFCN, went to the site to discuss this event and the actions put in place by the operator on Thursday, 26 April, before it attracted media attention. The existence of a leak is detected and monitored by a combination of several automatic and manual monitoring devices such as humidity and air activity measurements and continuous monitoring of the water inventory balance. Each means thus has a different precision, working area and settings. The manner in which the leak was detected is fully consistent with the leakage flow. The fact that the reactor was manually shut down and the reactor was not automatically shut down shows that the operator took the necessary action on time and that it was still a safety margin before an emergency stop occurred. In addition, every night, a precise long-term meeting is held to measure water inventory balances with great precision. Therefore, it is possible to state with certainty that there was no leak on Sunday, April 22. As mentioned earlier, the leak flow rate was initially a few litres per minute, but when the reactor was shut down cold, it was almost zero. The leaking water is water from the primary circuit. It will always have some activation and will therefore be slightly radioactive, but, as confirmed by the Safety Authority, the latter is below the applicable limits. It is also important to point out that such leaks are collected within the reactor building itself and therefore do not in any way lead to a release to the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u59	Do you have any details on capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u60	No. I know this is a fairly limited flow that lasted several days. The water will be purified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u61	It was explained that there were a total of 6,000 litres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u62	I'm not a specialist, but in my opinion a total of 6,000 liters went through the circuit, but there were never 6,000 liters in the circuit at the same time. The operator will investigate in detail the cause of the leak. The part of the pipe concerned must first be removed and then analysed to determine the cause of the leak. On this basis, the Security Authority will, if necessary, request additional actions from the operator. No worker was contaminated by searching for or discovering the leak. During the repair work, the operator will have to take all necessary measures and precautions to avoid contamination of the workers involved and to limit the radiation dose to the maximum, while respecting the legal limits. This event was classified at level 0 of the INES scale (communication tool to facilitate perception). The INES scale has seven levels. The operator complied with the technical requirements and time limits for the actions it had to undertake. The security functions have not been impacted and have been guaranteed at every moment. The incident did not have any impact on the safety of personnel, the population or the environment. AFCN's communication policy is to communicate an incident at a power plant when the INES scale classification is set, unless of course there is a risk and the expectation can harm the population, workers or the environment, in which case the communication is immediate. If this is not the case, the information is published as soon as possible, but you need to understand that the Agency needs time to receive detailed information from the operator and to define this INES classification. A distinction should be made between when an event is notified by the operator to the AFCN or other competent authorities and when the event is classified on the INES scale. The latter was carried out on the basis of a documented analysis carried out by both the operator and the Safety Authority. To properly classify an event on the INES scale, according to the INES manual, several data must be collected. These operations require some time. A delay of several days between the occurrence of an event and its publication on the AFCN website is therefore fully in line with the usual publication deadlines for INES events in other countries. It should also be noted that, in general, it is the policy of the PSAN to communicate actively only on incidents classified on the INES scale at level 1 or above. As a result, the AFCN does not usually communicate with INES 0 events because they have no impact in terms of nuclear safety. This practice is in line with the IAEA guides on the communication of INES-listed events. However, the Agency is still available to respond transparently to questions from the press and the public, which has been the case since 23 April and the notification of this event, during which time the Agency has not hesitated to answer questions on the subject. The AFCN may, however, make an exception to this principle. That's what was done at the Doel 1 event. It was classified at level 0 on the INES scale. In spite of this, the AFCN decided to communicate transparently on the subject, even before the classification on the INES scale was fixed. Personally, I am convinced that many concerns could have been avoided if the analysis of the INES had been carried out within the time limit, even if it was a preliminary classification. I also communicated this to ENGIE Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u63	Thank you, Minister. With regard to this communication, I understand that the AFCN normally communicates as soon as there is an INES 1, 2, 3, etc. classification. It's normal, but when you're in the nuclear part and you know it's a leak, you can't accept that the communication elements are wrong, not the AFCN elements, but those given by the maintenance operator. The Agency must react at that time. On the other hand, since the information that the reactor is shutting down is given to the market, I think it is not bad for the Agency to recognize that the problem is taking place in the nuclear part but that it is under control. In this case, for some time, there was silence until the media asked questions. Regularly, the Agency does not respond but here, as the pressure is too strong, as it indicates in its PowerPoint presentation, we communicate. We have to change that! That part needs to be changed. As you say and as I said in the sub-committee, we can have an interim communication which gives the state of play and which provides further additional communications, in particular on the INES classification at level 0, which can, at that time, be reassuring. I repeat that the first communication must arrive faster when it concerns the nuclear part. We cannot wait until it is media pressure that imposes communication, especially when it comes to correcting something that the operator, voluntarily or not, miscommunicated when talking about maintenance. I hear the exams are still in progress, and that's normal. We don't know if it's repairable. This remains a big question mark. It's a file to follow. It makes me say that the nuclear phasing out has begun, without having the law. If we do the sum of the plants today at the stop – Doel1, Doel 3, Tihange 3 – we find that there are more reactors at the stoppage than if the law had been respected. This is paradoxical in relation to those who would like to prolong nuclear power. I'm targeting you, but I'm aiming for others. In this case, I think that respecting the original timetable would have led us to less worries and problems. Doel 1 is an old central. I am not surprised that such an incident has occurred. I will conclude by addressing two elements. First, there is necessarily a need for clarification on the INES scale. If only because there was a communication problem in the head of Electrabel, and you made it known what you thought. In my view, it would deserve an INES 1 classification, at least, because there was a problem and because we are in the nuclear part. Secondly, I agree with what the new Director General of the Agency said in the sub-committee, namely that this incident is a well-known warning. This must really make us reflect on the old and aging of these plants and on other problems that may arise. I also believe, Mr. Chair, that since the answer is as complete as possible, I will not table a motion. There remains one point on which the minister did not have information, but we will find it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u64	I take note of the fact that no motion has been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u65	Mr President, Minister, for several weeks now, a "Mesta Fusion" type radar is in the test phase in Bouge, near Namur. This one, already used in France for several years, has the specificity of being behavioral. In other words, it helps to identify the behaviour of motorists by analysing a range of variables. In concrete terms, it is capable of simultaneously controlling 32 vehicles running in both directions and on eight tracks. In addition to speed, it can detect prohibited exceedances, respect for safety distances between vehicles, crossings of white lines, etc. Its objective is, of course, to reduce road mortality. According to the Walloon Road Safety Agency, 30% of fatal accidents are caused by excessive speed. In other cases, inappropriate behaviour is often involved. This means that they can now also be monitored. At the moment, this radar is, as I said, in the test phase and the controlled drivers are therefore not verbalized. Minister, do you already have the first results of this test? When will this phase end? Is it already planned to order one? If yes, are there already plans for a number and time frame for commissioning?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u66	Mr Flahaux, to date, this material has not been approved for the Belgian market. As a result, the police services do not use it. The police, however, remain attentive to the development and approval of this type of equipment for the Belgian market, which is a competence of the legal metrology department. Where appropriate, the police will consider whether it is appropriate to acquire it and, above all, to determine the framework within which it can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u67	Minister, do you have any idea the duration of the test?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u68	No, because the device is not yet available for the Belgian market. It is not because France takes a decision that we follow it immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u69	All right. So I'll wait a little longer. However, it seems to me that this type of radar is interesting. It doesn't matter whether it comes from France, Great Britain or the Netherlands, what matters is its effectiveness, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Coster-Bauchau has converted 25287 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u71	Mr President, Minister, my question was a written question from a few months ago, which has not been answered, which obliges me to put it orally. However, the question is more appropriate as a written question. In the meantime, questions have already been raised in plenary, with many elements of reply. However, the total answer has not been given. At the beginning of 2015, the Federal Road Police announced that it wanted to significantly increase the number of alcohol controls, from 240 000 to 250 000 controls to 420 000 controls per year. More efficient controls and a quick sniffing test were needed to ensure that the number was reached. At the same time, the checkpoints had to move faster. However, there was no increase in staff to get the figure. The federal government agreement aims to achieve the State-General's target for road safety. This means that one in three drivers will be checked for alcohol, drugs and seat belts and 40 million vehicles will be checked for speed. In reply to a parliamentary question of 9 September 2015, you stated that an increase in staff was necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, you saw the feasibility of achieving the objectives by 2017 or 2018. That is why I have a number of specific questions. Firstly, how are the figures for the number of checks kept? This is necessary in order to determine whether or not the objectives set have been met. Secondly, how many alcohol controls were carried out in 2015, 2016 and 2017? I would like to have a split between the number of checks carried out by the federal road police and the local police. It may be a problem to have the local police figures. Nevertheless, I look forward to your answer to the question. Was the objective of 420 000 checks per year taken from the federal road police? If not, how far is the police from that number? Was the objective of checking one in three drivers per year achieved? If not, how far is the police from that number? What do you think are the reasons for achieving the objectives? Thirdly, how has the use of samplers or sniffers evolved in recent years? How many devices have been purchased at the moment? What proportion of the controls happens to those devices? I would like to have a split between the number of planes in the federal road police and the local police, should those numbers exist. Are the devices ensuring the expected efficiency gains? Is it intended that the devices will be used at each inspection? By when do you expect this to be the case? How many additional controls will this allow? Fourthly, how has police capacity for control actions evolved in recent years? I'd like to have a split between the federal road police and the local police. How much additional capacity is needed to achieve the objectives of the coalition agreement? How many additional resources do you plan to register for this? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u72	Mr Van Hecke, you rightly turned your question into an oral question. I therefore apologise for the fact that your written question has not been answered. I think everyone is convinced that that is not the custom in my cabinet, but this was the exception to the rule. Apart from the annual bobcampaigns, we do not have centralised figures for the local police zones, because the current way of working requires a double understanding. The VCLP is a requesting party for a simplified registration, so that an accurate picture can be sketched for the number of tests throughout the year. This simplified registration means, inter alia, that the data can be automatically exported from the breath test and breath analysis apparatus. The figures for the Bob campaigns have already been emailed to you: in 2014 there were 235 000 controls during the Bob campaign in the summer, in 2017 there were 319 000. For the Bob Campaign in the winter of 2014-2015 there were 321 000 controls and for the year-end 2017-2018 439 000, a serious increase thus. The federal road police do have the number of alcohol controls throughout the year. In 2017, it carried out 221 252 alcohol controls. As mentioned in question 1, the number of checks for local police is not systematically taken by all zones throughout the year and is therefore not possible. For the federal road police, figures can be provided: in 2015 there were 257 000 checks, in 2016 255 000 checks and in 2017 221 000 checks. As you can see in the table, the federal road police failed to achieve the ambitious goal of 420 000 drivers to be controlled. This is due, among other things, to staff shortages in the various provinces. In 2017, the federal road police faced a general staff shortage of around 30 percent. We do not have all the figures to answer your question 2c, as the number of checks is not systematically monitored by the local police zones. The samplers allow a smooth and quick screening of the drivers. The devices may be actively used on site since June 2014. Many zones have therefore purchased these devices and are actively deploying them on site. The Federal Road Police has been equipped with 155 sampling devices since the end of 2017. Once a driver has positive sample, the normal control procedure with the classic breath test and breath analyzer should be started. It is therefore expected that the sniffing tests will increase the number of checks in the coming years. The number of samplers purchased by the zones shall not be centrally monitored. They can decide independently whether or not to buy these devices - in whatever quantity - or not. A survey of all areas in the country should be organised for this purpose. Like I said, road police have 155 planes. The samplers are deployed within the road police. However, we do not see whether all local areas are dealing with this in the same way, but we do see the number of controlled drivers in the Bob Campaigns increasing every year. For the bob campaigns, figures are provided by the local zones. The increase is largely due to the use of the samplers. This can be concluded from an analysis carried out by the management of the federal police police police police's police and ICT resources during the evaluation of each bob campaign. I come to your fourth question. The KB of 16 October 2009 adds traffic as the seventh basic functionality of local police. That Royal Decree stipulates that 8% of the capacity of the corps must be devoted to traffic. Some areas do this in the form of a separate traffic service, others integrate traffic into other services, such as intervention. The 8 % standard has remained unchanged since the adoption of that decision and is therefore still applicable. The States-General of Road Safety has set the objective of 1.2 million drivers to be checked per year. The ratio for police services is calculated according to the 80 local/20 federal key. Federal police control 240 000 drivers, accounting for 20%. The 80/20 key has always remained applicable. Over the last two years, the police and security services have been confronted with events such as the attacks, which required a lot of capacity. Nevertheless, we have continued to focus on traffic and we see that the annual targets for bob campaigns are being met time and time again. I am therefore pleased to announce that the figures for the 2017-2018 campaign were very favourable. No less than 438 800 tests were conducted, of which 2.1 % was positive. So it turns out there are more and more bobs on the road. As we have no idea of the total number of directors controlled by the local police, it is impossible to make a ruling on this. The full occupation of the organic road police tables makes it easy to achieve the target of 240 000 controlled drivers. However, the actual capacity is below that foreseen standard. It is therefore not possible to comply with this. We have carried out 221 000 checks instead of the planned 240 000, so the gap is not so great.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, it is rare or never that a written question remains unanswered with you. I need to come back to some of your colleagues on a more regular basis. Once an unanswered question, that can happen. I want to replicate on a few elements. The samplers can indeed be a very efficient way of increasing the number of checks by the same capacity and within the same time frame. I regret, however, that we have hardly any figures from the local police, although that is crucial information. Now we are discussing whether or not local police areas have sampling devices, whether or not these devices were purchased and how many checks are carried out. The lack of such information complicates policy work. Can we ask or impose on the local police to make a minimum registration? There are also campaigns at local level. There are not just some drivers being checked wildly on a Saturday night once a month. The information on the number of checks must nevertheless be recorded. An application in which, for example, the number of checks is reported weekly could be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u74	Mr. Van Hecke, allow me to interrupt you for a moment. You're absolutely right. We are currently working on the application Focus. That app was developed by the local police of Antwerp. All teams are equipped with it. It is a mobile application that is installed on a smartphone and records their activities. In Antwerp, that application is already operational, up and running. By the end of this year, if I am not mistaken, ten other police areas will be equipped with it in a pilot project. Before rolling that federal out, there might still be technical issues. The aim is to roll out Focus uniform across the country, as part of iPolice. Such registrations may also be reported in that system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u75	I think this is important, regardless of the composition of the government or the majority. There are objectives, but we have to see that we cannot control them. All we can do is find out how many checks the federal police are doing, but we have no idea what the local police are doing. As a result, we do not know whether the local police are carrying out the agreed share. Perhaps it is also an idea to purchase the samplers by means of a framework contract. Purchasing through framework contracts takes place for a lot of material at federal level. This could also help the local areas. I will look at the figures again, but I believe that we need to step up our efforts to achieve the overall objectives. Better registration will certainly help to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u76	Mr President, Minister, the Federal Computer Crime Unit recently came into the news because of a lack of staff. The unit has 44 agents, but currently barely half of them would be at work. I read that the number would fall back to 13 staff by September. I must not convince you of the importance of cyber today in our society, including in crime and terrorism. A high-performance computer crime unit at our police forces has thus become indispensable. Firstly, can you give some explanation of the figures that appear in the press? Secondly, what is the reason for the undercrew of the unit? How many vacancies are currently open at the Federal Computer Crime Unit? Do you think that the monthly premium of 180 euros is a stumbling block? The employees do not get this premium, while their colleagues from the regional computer crime units would receive it. Can you explain why this difference in monthly contributions exists between different services of the same organisation? Thirdly, what will you do to address this shortage of staff? At what time do you plan to attract the required number of employees? Finally, what budget has this unit had since 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u77	Mr Yüksel, I will answer your first, second and third questions globally and your fourth question more specifically. First and foremost, I confirm that the fight against cybercrime and investing in better cybersecurity are indeed important priorities for this government. The release of substantial funds for federal police computer crime units, 800 000 euros for the one-off purchase of hardware and software, as of 2019 300 000 euros recurrent, as well as staff credits and the creation and further development of a strong center for cybersecurity Belgium, are witnesses to this. Unfortunately, despite these efforts, the police fail to find the necessary staff for the CCUs. Not the lack of a budget is the problem, but the completion of the open relations. It is also true that of all the CCUs, the FCCU, the federal one, is facing the biggest personnel problem. The theoretical staff framework for the FCCU provides 44 staff, 36 of whom are operational, i.e. people with police status. The staff framework has been updated on paper for 50%, i.e. 22 employees, 17 of whom are operational. In the short term, even more staff are at risk of leaving, making the service severely deficient. The personnel problems at the FCCU have multiple causes and cannot only be reduced to the simple difference in remuneration. After all, this is only an element. Often it is the combination of a number of factors that lead FCCU staff to switch to an RCCU or prevent the FCCU from recruiting new staff. The lack of a vision of the future regarding the functioning of the FCCU, a better remuneration in the private sector, the high workload, the desire to work closer to home and, finally, the lack of operational remuneration, which one does get from the RCCU, are all considerations that play a part. In today's mobility, a position is open to the FCCU, namely that of engineer with a specialized profile. In the past, several operational sites were opened up, but almost all interested candidates eventually dropped out. As far as the monthly premium is concerned, this is a remnant of the past which served to cover through a lump sum the small costs borne by detectives in the performance of their duties. That right was entered into the police reform in the Royal Decree on the legal status of police officers of 30 March 2001. The Ministerial Decree implementing certain provisions of the aforementioned law of the police lists in Article 11.13 the services which are granted this operational compensation. The FCCU is not included in this list, but the services are currently considering whether and how the right to compensation for the FCCU can be opened, albeit without prejudice to the principle of the extinct nature of the premium scheme within the integrated police, as planned for mid-2019. Because of the precarious situation of the FCCU last week, consultations were held between my cabinet, the cabinets of my colleague of Justice and of the Prime Minister, the federal prosecutor and the police. There a number of slopes were discussed which should lead to a short- and medium-term solution. I have already spoken about compensation, but, as has already been said, compensation is only an element, a small part of the solution. There is also a need to improve recruitment and training. These must not only be faster to respond to needs, but also consider the extent to which the increased recruitment of specialised civilian personnel can form part of the solution. I gave the order a while ago to have the police recruitment department seriously vetted. What we see here before the FCCU also applies to other services where the necessary budgets are provided, but where they fail to fill the vacancies. I've had the impact of this screening today. In addition to a serious reorganisation, it is also proposed to revise and simplify the recruitment process. For example, a shorter lead time is proposed. After all, many people are lost because the selection process takes so long. So this is being dealt with thoroughly. The police must become more attractive as an employer. In other words, the image of the police as an employer should be improved because I think it is already quite attractive to work for the police. It is also important to work on a retention policy. How can the recruited Chief Inspectors with special specialisation in computer science be led to continue to perform their specialised tasks and not leave after a few years for intervention services or other operational services where their IT knowledge is lost for the organisation? However, recruitment and selection by the police are not only problematic for the specialised profiles. So, some time ago, I ordered the audit I was talking about. Finally, I would like to stress that the deficit in the FCCU did not lead to a change in cybercrime. The RCCUs, mainly those of the courts of appeal, have the necessary competences and resources to carry out this task, with or without the support of the FCCU. At the FCCU, the smallest unit of the six, there is a large shortage of staff, but if one looks at the whole it is somewhat nuanced. As regards your fourth question, the general operating costs such as personnel costs, vehicle costs, individual equipment, furniture and classic user material are not included in the amounts given below. The investment amounts mentioned are therefore directly related to the tasks specific to the FCCU, including investment in specialised formations. For example, a specific budget of EUR 89 000 was earmarked for training in 2017. I'll give you a table of the CCU operation, the global investment bugdet. This concerns specialised investments for 2015, 2016 and 2017. In 2015, the budget, completed, was 540 000 euros of which 87 000 for the FCCU and in 2017 it was 1.1 million of which 200 000 for the FCCU. I'll get you the detailed numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u78	Minister, you have raised a number of points. I think it is particularly important to make the job more attractive in general. The fee is only one element. I am pleased that you stress that this element is an important element in the fight against crime and terrorism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u79	Mr Minister, on 30 March 2018, the Council of Ministers adopted the draft Royal Decree establishing the National Emergency Plan to deal with a criminal incident or terrorist attack using chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear agents or CBRN. This is an implementation of the EU action plan in this area. The main objective of the chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear action plan is to minimise a threat of CBRN incidents. Indeed, the risk of a criminal or terrorist incident involving CBRN funds is real. I have the following questions, Minister. Could you give me some explanation on the National Emergency Plan? Can you explain to me why in the Royal Decree the abbreviation CBRNe is used? Can you tell me which bodies and organisations are involved in the emergency plan today? Who coordinates interventions in the event of accidents? Are there regular exercises today or in the future in order to be able to respond as best as possible to all possible scenarios? The experience of the attacks two years ago has taught us that this is not an unnecessary luxury. Is Belgium committed to this within the European Union? Will Belgium cooperate with NATO on this? What does the government do and plan with regard to public information? Can you tell me what budget the federal government has released for CBRN since 2015?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u80	Mr Yüksel, as regards your first and second questions, a CBRN plan was drawn up in 2007 by the National Crisis Centre in cooperation with all relevant departments, in particular Public Health, Defence and Civil Protection. In view of the adoption of the Royal Decree establishing the National Emergency Plan to address a terrorist hostage or terrorist attack of 1 May 2016, the CBRN Plan was updated and adapted to the specific management structures provided for in the KB-terro. Taking into account the possible use of explosive substances in combination with CBRN substances explains the addition of the acetamide. By the way, that term is used internationally and is actually more correct than CBRN. Specifically, the CBRNe emergency plan provides for a coordinated response to the following situations: a criminal incident or a CBRNe attack abroad with a possible impact on our country, the threat of a criminal incident or a CBRNe attack in Belgium or a criminal incident or a CBRNe attack in Belgium. Your third question asked which bodies are involved. Several bodies are involved in the emergency plan: the General Directorate of Crisis Centre, Defence, Civil Protection, the Public Health Office, the Food Agency, the FANC, Sciensano* The new name for the Scientific Institute for Public Health, the Integrated Police, the relief zones, the Federal Public Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutor General. You also asked who coordinates the interventions. At strategic level, they are coordinated by the management cell. At operational level, this is done by the operational cell. The management cell shall be jointly managed by the Director-General of the Crisis Centre and the Federal Prosecutor or their delegate. All decisions on responsibilities and powers, both of the judicial and administrative authorities, must be taken in consultation. Very urgent decisions can be taken without delay by the joint Presidency, without the entire management cell being called together first. In such cases, decisions shall be confirmed by the entire management cell immediately upon meeting. The management and operational coordination of the operational cell shall be entrusted to Discipline 3, which is the police. It concerns the administrative DirCo or the local police chief, designated in the application of Articles 7.1 to 7.3 of the Police Office Act, without prejudice to the powers of each of those authorities and each of the departments forming part of the Operational Cell. He is assisted by a deputy from another discipline. In reply to your fourth question, I will give an overview of CBRN exercises in the past and in the near future. In November 2011, there was a joint exercise with the FANC and Defense for the specialized labs. In November 2013, there was an exercise of the Defense Labs with SIBCRA of Sampling and Identification Tools. In April 2016, there was a chemical tabletop exercise. In November 2016, there was a radiological tablet on exercise. In November 2017, there was a biological tabletop exercise. In June 2018, so next month, there will be a Biogarden or limited tabletop exercise under the plan. As regards commitments within the European Union, I can tell you that European research projects and exercises involving Belgian actors are being developed in the framework of the European CBRNe Action Plan. In the past, for example, the Belgian operational actors participated in the GIFT project, focusing on forensic research in the event of a CBRNe emergency. On 18, 19 and 20 June 2018, the European eNotus project, aimed at cooperation between CBRN training centres, organises a CBRN exercise Biogarden - to which I referred earlier. In addition to tests of Belgian detection, forensic and laboratory capacity in the event of a biological threat, the interaction with the different management structures is foreseen. In the future, similar projects and exercises will continue, including from the CBRN Expertise Centre set up within the scope of the Crisis Centre. This centre, which aims at cooperation between emergency plan coordinators and operational experts, knowledge centres and training centres, is established to facilitate, integrate and help coordinate the preparation for CBRNe emergency situations under the national CBRNe emergency plans. Belgium participates actively in the various working groups within NATO, within the Civil Emergency Planning Committee, the CEPC. One of the working groups is the Civil Protection Group. This group covers, among other things, CBRNe and exchanges of information between the different countries. Belgium also participates in the annual exercise of the EADRCC, Euro-Atlantic Disaster Response Coordination Centre, in Serbia in October. One of the risks that is being practiced is CBRNe. At the Washington Summit in 2016, NATO Heads of State or Government expressed their commitment to the civilian dimension for stronger individual and collective resilience in the event of an attack, not necessarily military but possibly hybrid. Hybrids include aspects such as cyber defence, the use of chemical, biological and radiological and nuclear capabilities, fake news, etc. This involves, on the one hand, deepening and professionalising in the matter, developing a relevant and sound national and international network, participating in exercises, projects and so on. Both the contacts and follow-up of ongoing projects within the European Union, which has been very active in this area in recent years, and NATO are crucial. With regard to information to the public, I can say the following. Informing the public about risks and appropriate behaviours to increase resilience is a key task of the Crisis Centre and its partners. This is why the website www.riskinfo.be was launched in 2015. This website contains information on various risks including nuclear, radiological, chemical risk and terrorism. The website is constantly evolving and contains information on how citizens can prepare for an emergency, what they need to do during an emergency and also has guidelines after an emergency in the recovery phase. In addition, there are annual information campaigns on specific risks such as the Seveso campaign in 2017 and the nuclear campaign in 2018. I come to your questions about the budget. I have here all the details I'll get you. In 2015, there was expenditure through the Federal Terro Fund for 1.4 million euros, in 2016 for 660 000 euros through the Terro Fund and through the Seveso Fund 1.3 million euros. I know that Minister De Block also provides for purchases in the medical sector in the form of vaccines and antidotes. As regards your question on the EU budget, I can tell you that the Crisis Centre has registered for a European call concerning the CBRN Expertise Centre.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u81	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'll read it quietly. I am pleased that our country is taking part, both at European level and at NATO level. The creation of that CBRNe Expertise Centre is very important. That still has to be established, or is it already in existence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u82	That still needs to be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 25345 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u84	Minister, we know that the use of social media has increased enormously. Many citizens always and everywhere have access to social networks such as Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram. Police forces have also evolved in today's social life. The police can use the social media to provide information to the population, but also to request information and even to screen shady persons or shady networks. However, the use of social media is not so non-binding. The last few weeks there has been quite a bit to do around Facebook and privacy. Social media can be a serious breach of private life, especially when the data has not been properly obtained. However, many police and police areas have received training on the correct use of social media and deontology. However, important questions remain when looking at and using messages on social media, not only by police officers, but also by the police leadership and in the employer-worker relationship and when using them in certain procedures. To what extent does the line between work and private life border and to what extent can the Chief Constable or Chief Constable make use of data obtained through social media? At the end of May, the EU GDPR Regulation will enter into force and public services, including the police, will also be bound by the new privacy regime. Minister, are there general guidelines for all police personnel for posting messages on social media, on the one hand for work-related use and on the other hand for private use? When can a message on social media be used in disciplinary files? Is it okay for a chief of police to control staff through social media? If so, are conditions attached? Where is the boundary between work-related and private life? Can a police department chief order an investigation into a staff member's personal account, even for messages in private groups? If so, under what conditions? Can a police officer order a disciplinary investigation when a member of staff responds in any way to a message posted by a third party? If it turns out that a police department is targeting staff members and instructs them to constantly check on social media, then I wonder if that is not a form of stalking. Are measures possible against this? If not, are you considering drawing up guidelines to prevent abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u85	Mr Degroote, I will answer your first and sixth questions together. Since 2011, there has been a vision text for the integrated police on the use of social media. This vision text was extended in 2013 with a framework note for the federal police, which defines certain basic principles to improve the quality of communication. This framework paper aims at three target groups, in particular the organisation, management and staff of the federal police. In other words, certain principles are common to those three different target groups, whereas specific principles are more applicable to one or two of those target groups. The note also covers some anchor points of functional, operational, deontological, legal and organizational order. Given our police structure, I do not have a central view of the guidelines issued in the various local police forces. It is important that on top of that framework paper there is a charter on the thoughtful use of social media. That charter is available to the members of the integrated police on the website poldms.police.be via the intra- and the internet. In addition, specific support measures are provided for employees at all levels, including managers, who use social media and who are often unconsciously confronted with problems and difficulties at the deontological, legal and functional level. They are sensitized to deal with social media properly as a member of a police department via information magazines and through the education 'Social media: how do we properly deal with it as a police officer?', which has been given by the National Police College since 2013. Within the general management of the judicial police, staff for whom disciplinary files or operational notes have been drawn up are invited to attend that training. The use of social media is also covered in the basic training given to new employees. I do not therefore foresee any specific regulation on the use of social media. In my view, the text of the vision and the Charter should provide sufficient guarantees to enable us to issue directives at the level of the corps, taking into account our integrated police structure. However, I am currently reviewing the disciplinary law together with my colleague in the Justice Department. It contains sufficient guarantees to guarantee the rights of defence of the staff. You refer to the EU regulation on GDPR, which reflects the general framework on privacy and is currently being transposed into Belgian law. Following this, our services will look specifically at the implications for the security services, knowing that Europe will give Member States the opportunity to issue a specific DAPIX directive for the security services, taking into account the specificities of the security chain. DAPIX stands for data protection and information exchange. Here too, we are working out a proposal. But as you may know, this is about using the police databases and the privacy rules herein. Then I'll come to the rest of your questions. In general, the vision and framework text describe the role of the supervisor as stimulator when it comes to the use of social media in the organisation, for example public order at events, and as a regulator when it comes to the use of social media by employees. It is therefore a good thing that police chiefs are selective, so targeted, following closely the possible problem behaviours. That's part of the risk management. As in many cases, there too, the principle of proportionality is of legitimate importance. In this context, reports on social media may indeed give rise to the initiation of disciplinary proceedings where the content of these reports is contrary to the disciplinary law, in other words where the facts may constitute an infringement of the obligations of the profession or jeopardise the dignity of the post. In this context, and this is also reflected in the judgments of the Council of State, it should be pointed out that the right of freedom of expression also applies to police officers, but that this right is not unlimited. It can therefore be restricted. These restrictions are motivated, inter alia, by the duty of discretion, the duty of loyalty and the duty not to harm the interests of the service. Police officers are therefore expected to be sufficiently discreet and loyal when posting messages on social media. Disciplinary authorities can learn about the content of the messages on social media in different ways. Either it is an open profile that anyone can consult, or it is a closed profile or the messages were placed in a closed group. If the disciplinary authority is not part of this group or is not friends on Facebook or other social media with the staff member posting the messages, it is therefore dependent on the information provided by third parties. In practice, constant monitoring of all external channels of social media seems neither feasible nor desirable, given the capacity such monitoring would require.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. This is of course a matter that will have lasting importance, given the increasing attention to privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u87	President: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 25361, 25362, 25363 and 25367 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thoron's 25373 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 25385 will be converted into a written question. Mr Thiébaut asked for his question to be postponed. 25386. Debates of the European Parliament The amendments tabled by Mrs Ben Hamou and Mrs Pas are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 25395 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Nollet's 25402 was postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u89	Minister, you might have expected questions on the subject. A recent report by Amnesty International shows that not only ethnic minorities, but also police people themselves indicate that ethnic profiling is a reality, which is still not being given sufficient attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u90	Président: Brecht Vermeulen. In the report "You never know with people like you," half of the police people questioned admit that ethnic profiling is happening. I think this is important, because after numerous discussions on this subject, policemen themselves admitted it in an investigation. The police would not be given sufficient instructions, which would put them on the basis of the gut feeling at checks. Amnesty also points out that there are no statistics on the number of checks carried out, by whom they are carried out and why, where, with what result, and the background of the controlled people. However, in other countries such as Spain, this results in a halving of the number of controls, while increasing the chances of catching them. Ethnic profiling not only puts an end to discrimination, but it is also an exercise in significantly improving the efficiency of police work, according to results from other countries. We hear from the press that you think the findings are exaggerated. You deny that ethical profiling is one of the police practices. I understand that that is not a policy line, the word you quoted. I would indeed be surprised if you were to say the opposite. At the same time, you deny that there would be a problem in this area. You declare to work on the basis of trust and rely on internal social control to deal with or report errors. In the recommendations of the report, for example, to introduce a registration system, you see no good. However, this is not only the standard procedure in Spain, but also in Britain, for example, with the so-called stop and search forms. After a study of Cambridge and large-scale pilot projects, the London Metropolitan Police, for example, purchased a bodycam for all 22 000 agents. The cams are good for a reduction in the number of complaints against the police by as much as 93 %, due to fewer false complaints and less police violence. Hence the following questions, Minister. Firstly, is it true that you deny and/or find exaggerated the findings on ethnic profiling in Amnesty International's report? If so, what are you basing yourself on? Secondly, will you take steps to have ethnic profiling investigated to confirm or reject the findings of this report? If so, which one and when? If not, why not? Thirdly, how do you feel that there are no statistics on the number of checks carried out, by whom, why, where and with what result? Fourthly, given the positive results in terms of both discrimination and efficiency of a registration system abroad, will you take steps to do so in our country too? If so, which one and when? If not, why not? Fifthly, you have recently had the legislation amended to allow bodycams to be used here in the context of insults to the police themselves. Will you follow the findings abroad and use these bodycams as standard in order to better assess the possible ethnic profile and complaints about possible police violence? If so, in which police areas could this start? What's the deadline? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u91	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the hypothesis and circumstances that allow members of the police forces to carry out an identity check on a person are set out exhaustively in the law on police officers. Moreover, the Act of 30 July 1981 prohibits any discrimination on the basis of certain protected criteria, such as ethnic origin. This law also imposes criminal sanctions on any public official or officer who discriminates against a person on the basis of one of the protected criteria. This is specifically about Article 23 of the anti-discrimination law. An identity check based solely on the assumed ethnic origin of a person is therefore prohibited in the light of applicable regulations. On the other hand, the Police Office Act allows administrative police authorities to introduce systematic checks in order to maintain public security and to ensure compliance with the legal provisions relating to access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals. The establishment of systematic checks implies that any person who is within the circumstances defined by the administrative police authorities may be the subject of an identity check. However, in some cases it is practically impossible for the police to control 100% of these persons, which is why the controlled persons are selected at random, which may create the feeling that they are wrongly endorsed by certain controlled persons. It is also the case that the members of the operational framework of the police services are sensitised both during initial and continuing training, e.g. a course of Behaviour Detection Officer or BDO. Various modules of the general study rules provide for teaching in matters relating to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Some training places emphasis on local community knowledge and efforts towards minorities, religious communities, young people and disadvantaged groups. In this context, diversity and respect for everyone is being called for. I'll deal with your second and fourth questions together. I do not intend to force you to register the controls, or even to take steps to investigate ethnic profiling. I work on the basis of trust in the police. I will not impose additional administration because I also fear a perverse effect. If we are going to impose registration and administration on a type of police mission, and then we can be called upon to do so, then I fear that this will be avoided, which will lead to less efficiency. I will check with my colleague in Spain how things are going there. I take note of the recommendation in Amnesty International's report, in particular that instructions should be learned in basic training on a regular basis. I'll do that. Thirdly, contrary to what you claim, statistics are available on the number of checks carried out by the police up to the level of the police units. In addition, it is possible to take note of the results of these checks. However, the available data do not allow an analysis of the problem of ethnic profiling. Precisely because we don't profile ethnically, I can't tell you how many brown, yellow, green, black people were controlled. Indeed, the data currently stored in the police database do not indicate the ethnic characteristics of the controlled persons. Even more fundamentally, the concept of ethnic origin is not clearly defined by the police, which makes it impossible to store data in this context. Fifth, there has indeed been a change in the legal landscape of camera use, including with regard to the use of cameras by the police, recently, by means of the law of 21 March 2018, scheduled for entry into force on 25 May 2018. Thanks to this law, the bodycam will become a clearly regulated tool for the police. The police officer's law, which now includes provisions on police camera use, states that the decision in principle to use bodycams should be made by the chief of police, the DirCo or the director of the federal police requesting department. The operational decision to use bodycams is also taken by the competent police officers. The chiefs, the DirCos and the directors will therefore decide whether or not to work with bodycams, after making the necessary impact analyses. But I agree with you that the systematic use of bodycams can solve unnecessary discussions. So I will encourage the use of bodycams, but the final decision we made in the law with the hierarchical superior. I should also like to comment on the reason why we do not register. Policemen have received training and one must have some degree of confidence in them. Trust is good to some extent and control is also advisable, but that is the task of the superior superior, the immediate chief. They must ensure that police officers remain within the limits of their duties. That is the task of management, of the immediate superior, and so we place that responsibility there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u92	Minister, it is a very important issue. You have had several questions about this in the past. I understand that this is not easy. You're right to say that the law forbids it. That's right. You are right to say that it is addressed in training. We must also have a lot of faith in our policemen. That is correct, but the question is, of course, how to control it. One can say that one has confidence and that one will examine the complaints when they come. How, however, can one investigate them? You also know that there is often very great frustration among certain sections of the population, rightly or wrongly, because they feel that they are more frequently endorsed or systematically controlled. How can we monitor or investigate these matters today? You yourself say that there are statistics on the number of checks, but that ethnicity is not controlled. In the end, it is difficult to ascertain today, even after the event, whether or not checks have been properly carried out on certain people. So there is a problem with the control, whether there are complaints or not. You say you don't want to register. I understand that it is not obvious, but I would like to mention two examples. I am glad to hear you say that you will be asking in Spain how it was done there. There may still be countries where they work with them. I also refer to a city in Flanders where a system has been put in place, namely Mechelen-Willebroek, where you are also in the majority, with a mayor who we cannot suspect is not doing well with the police or his people. He's a good mayor. So that's what he did. The system consists of telling the dispatcher that a check will be carried out. The police officer must therefore not fill out a registration form, but inform the emergency room for what reason which person will be checked. It might be interesting to check the results in that police area. Has it led to changes? How is that evaluated? Minister, I am sorry that you say that you will not do so immediately. I would like to hear you say that you will check this and inform about existing systems at home and abroad, in order to get to know their usefulness. Take the figures and results obtained in Spain: this can also be a step forward for police work, it appears. Let us be open to that. Your answer disappoints me a little, but you also give me a little hope by leaving the door open for research into the Spanish approach. Perhaps we should take a look at this in our own country. The Netherlands has also experimented with it and we can learn from it. In addressing this complex problem the bodycams can help. We must somehow get rid of frustration, whether the suspicions of discrimination are justified or unjustified. That's gonna make us all better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u93	Mr Minister, the Brussels-North police area has recently announced that it has joined forces with the Mira Foundation, which is responsible for the training of assistive dogs, in order to acquire one of these animals. The goal is to provide emotional support to victims. Indeed, there has been a lack of support for victims during the sometimes lengthy and painful judicial process. This concept, unprecedented in the Belgian police community, has already been used for several years in certain social services and hospitals. The dog is known to play a positive role, both psychologically and physiologically, in reducing stress and anxiety. It can also relax the atmosphere during the hearing of the victims. This animal will also take part in outreach activities organized by the police zone. Minister, what is your position on this initiative? Is it already planned to extend it to other police areas in case you already have a positive assessment? If so, would it be appropriate, in the long term, to set up a specific training centre at home or at least to develop a specific section in the centres that currently train police dogs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u94	Mr. Flahaux, in this case, the idea of acquiring a dog of emotional support arose from two key elements of the approach to community policing within the PolBruno area, namely a constant desire to improve victim assistance and a curiosity for new initiatives emanating from networks of foreign police partners, in the case of the Quebec intersection network bringing together Quebec police around the theme of community policing. This project in the PolBruno area has been developed on an own funds basis and a staff member will soon be specifically trained in this new approach. A concrete operationalization of the project is planned for early 2019. The evaluation that will be carried out will show whether these assistive dogs prove to be a real added value for the different police missions. If so, I will certainly support the extension of this project, and I will ask to examine the extent to which the federal police dog support service can contribute. The evaluation of this pilot project will allow us to see what we can get out of this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u95	Minister, thank you. I know your proactivity. If I dare say, I will follow you to see the results. Everything that can be used to improve the police and everything around them, including the problem of victims, is obviously very positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u96	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I have asked you a number of questions about neighbourhood information networks in recent years. Figures showed that at the beginning of 2018 1 087 BINs were active in Belgium, which is more than a doubling compared to 2012, when there were only 520 BINs. The establishment of a BIN follows a fixed procedure. The FPS Home Affairs also offers a starter package via the website www.besafe.be. After going through all the steps, the mayor, the chief of police and the BIN coordinator sign a charter. The agreement is checked by and at the General Directorate for Security and Prevention of the FPS Home Affairs on the basis of a checklist. Only after the charter has been declared compliant will the BIN be recognised. Important changes also need to be acted on by the same stakeholders and reported to the Home Office. It is important that there is a proper follow-up, including with the mandated police officer, and a proper evaluation. The besafe website also provides a powerpoint presentation to show which points of interest may be useful in an evaluation. The charter should also indicate the frequency with which a BIN will be evaluated. That should be once every three years. However, it is recommended that they be carried out annually. Now it turns out that a lot of different BIN's are no longer active or even stopped. In a reply to a written question to my colleague Conseil Degroote on 19 January 2016, you stated that there is a chance that other neighbourhood information networks will be active in Belgium whose charter was not delivered. I have a number of specific questions about this. In what way will the Home Office be informed that the evaluation has also been carried out as stipulated in the charter? Does the FOD itself follow the agreed frequency on.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is the contents being checked? Do you think that adjustments should be made on how the evaluation is reported to the Home Office? Do you have a visual on the number of bins that are no longer active? From the answer to a question from a colleague, I have learned that there is really no way of looking at it. Can you possibly give figures of the number of BINs that are no longer active? In what way is this made known by the police zones, by the BINs or by others to the FPS Home Office? I also found that the City Council of Lokeren was debating the termination of a BIN. How many BINs have officially been discontinued? Can you tell me what these are and why this happened? Do you think there should be more active communication with the Home Office to report an inactive or discontinued BIN? If so, how do you intend to remedy this? Finally, do you think there are still BINs operating in Belgium that have not transferred a charter to Home Affairs? I ask this question because we find that the number of BINs has increased significantly in recent years? If so, what will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u97	The Home Office will not be informed if the evaluation of each BIN has taken place, as mentioned in the BIN charter. It is the local police zones and the BIN mandates, more specifically those responsible for the periodic evaluation of each BIN and the processing of this data. The FPS Home Affairs does not keep track when each BIN has to keep its evaluation, nor does the FPS Home Affairs send a reminder to the partners to still have an evaluation moment. We want to degreas the state. However, the charter, signed by the Mayor and the Chief Constable, states that each BIN should organise an evaluation on a regular basis. There is an opinion that this happens at least once every three years. It can be noted that these evaluations are usually carried out every other year and generally take the form of reports of consultation and statistics. The purpose of the evaluation is to assess the efficiency of the BIN by examining the extent to which the objectives of the BIN have been achieved. Here again it is the BIN mandates of the police zones that organize and follow the evaluations. To date, there are no reports of evaluations of the different neighbourhood information networks to the FPS Home Affairs. The final responsibility lies with the police zones. The Home Office does not have accurate data on the discontinuation of existing BINs. Although the charter stipulates that all changes to the operation of the BIN must be passed on to the FPS Home Affairs, this is often not done in practice. In order to know how many BINs have been stopped over the years, contact should be made with the different police zones. They have that information at their disposal. Within my administration, we are looking at methods that can lead to a better central follow-up of the discontinuations that are taking place on the ground, so that an accurate figure of the existing BINs is available at any time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic899x.u98	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I fully agree with you that neighbourhood information networks should not be centrally managed from the Home Affairs Office. It is more than preferable for all work to be done at local level, as the local level is the beneficiary of it. The tools are provided by the FPS Home Affairs, but the work and the importance are of course at local level. The disadvantage is that the creation of a neighbourhood information network is reported and a charter is drawn up, but your answer shows that you do not have an overview of the number of inactive or even officially discontinued BINs. However, the charter and the regulations say very clearly, as soon as there is a significant change, that this must be reported to the Home Office. It attaches great importance to the mandated police officer. Of course, over the years there is usually variation in this. People pass on that job sometimes. There is, however, nowhere really checked whether the mandated police officer is doing well. Of course, there would be no harm in providing for follow-up.
