ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u1	Mr President, Minister, it is perhaps no coincidence that such a recent judgment makes many Members of Parliament ask questions about its content and its consequences. It is almost impossible to follow all judgments in the airport file. The judgment obtained by the five municipalities of Grimbergen, Machelen, Meise, Vilvoorde and Wemmel is, in my view, particularly clear and clear in its condemnation of the federal state and of the federal policy on routes since the entry into force of this government. The judgment sets out, with dates, the measures which the federal government is obliged to adapt or withdraw and, in fact, all the measures taken by the current government in recent years need to be reviewed. All this must be completed within a period of 90 weeks, which means that the procedures for modification must now be started. I do not ask my questions about that with great joy. However, I felt obliged, even as mayor of a northern border municipality, to go to court, even though I know that this is about the last step in a democracy. However, the successive measures taken do indeed have a concentration effect of nuisance for the Noordrand and also ensure that the support for the development of the airport is melting very quickly. I am most concerned about the latter. Minister, the judge is very clear: you need to reduce these measures. The judge is also very clear about the political steps to be taken. You must establish a State General by 17 September this year at the latest. The court also makes it very clear who should be at least part of it, including public authorities, the airport itself and other interested parties. Mr President, first of all, what political conclusion do you draw from that judgment? Secondly, what steps will you take to set up that State General? Thirdly, will you make provision in the budget for the financing of the huge periodic penalty payments, EUR 50 000 per infringement, in order to be able to finance them effectively, should you not get the homework that the judge imposes on you in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u2	I agree with the questions put by Mr Hans Bonte, in the sense that the Dutch-speaking judge of the Brussels court has made an assessment of the routes above the Noordrand. I do have some additional questions. I am a resident of the Oostrand and I am talking about the municipalities of Sterrebeek, Tervuren and also Steenokkerzeel, towards Leuven. What does not come from one side must come from the other, unless one wants to organise additional flights over Brussels, but in Brussels there is also a lot of controversy about this. The court's ruling is what it is, but a solution will be particularly difficult without hindering other people. I think that the judge is a little out of his jurisdiction by saying that on 17 September there should be a state-general with all the interested parties to have that discussion there. I'm a former warrior in that file. I've been through Durant's period. The night flights then went in the direction of the Noordrand. There was then, a huge action in the Noordrand against those night flights, which were concentrated above the Noordrand. Then came the plans of Bert Anciaux and Renaat Landuyt. The only person who, in my opinion, acted correctly in that file is Etienne Schouppe. He stayed as close as possible to the historical use of jobs. He has also done a lot for the use of low-noise aircraft. The work of Schouppe was subsequently cancelled by Mr Wathelet and Mrs Fonck, who changed the direction of the routes so that the IKEA route was established, over Nossegem, which led to a large concentration of flights towards Oostrand. Minister, you are making an effort, but you are not serving the judge's judgment either because you are clearly choosing to reduce aircraft noise in a particular region. Where do you stand now with the flight bill? How can we achieve a fair distribution, which, however, takes account of historical routes? It is impossible for a new plan to create a great deal of new obstacles, because that is a dead end. Minister, I look forward to your answer on this very difficult dossier. A balanced distribution is a good concept, but one must be able to translate it into concrete routes and jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u3	Minister, I have already pointed out to you in previous statements on the routes of flight that the longer an agreement between the federal government and the regions will not be reached, the more procedures will be put in place. Unfortunately, you ended up in the same path as Minister Landuyt at the time. Each statement ensures that there is less room for manoeuvre and that other routes become impossible. In a previous ruling, there was a strong cheering in Brussels, because they felt that they could shift flights to other routes. So there will only be a solution if a global agreement is reached. A solution is only a solution if it is a solution for everyone. I warned you at the time that rewarding regions that go to court and staying deaf to regions that do not do so would sooner or later break you down. Today there is a new ruling, in which many things are challenged. It concerns the policy of the current federal government, but it concerns, among other things, two changes to routes in 2012 and in 2013, so I think there is a little more going on than that. I think you should go back to the agreements that were made in 2008 and 2010. The basis of those chords was good. Although these agreements are far from perfect, there was broad support for them. From that basis we have to leave to come to a further broad agreement. I know that at the time, some Members felt that a ruling on the Channel Route in Brussels had to be taken into account, and the obstacle had to be removed as quickly as possible. Today's picture, however, looks very different. I think that only a global agreement can save you and us from this, and save mainly the airport, which is what it is about. Mr Minister, my questions are of course in line with the questions put by my colleagues. Can you give a brief overview of exactly what needs to be changed within the 90-week period imposed by the court? What steps will you take to organise the States-General of Brussels-National Airport? What is the current state of affairs in the formulation of a global agreement to achieve a fair and equitable distribution of the nuisance, as we will never resolve this issue without such an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u4	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said. The Dutch-speaking court in Brussels therefore considered that the overflight routes on the northern periphery of Brussels should be adapted under penalty of a penalty of EUR 50 000 per infringement. Minister, can you tell us more about this court's decision? Does the government intend to appeal? What steps will be taken as a result of this judgment? Having said that, Minister, you have been asked about the problem of the overflight of Brussels and its periphery every fortnight or so. Fifteen days ago, following interventions by colleagues from the majority, party presidents, including the Open Vld, you said you had no interlocutor at the government level. I am therefore a little surprised that the members of this government say we have to work when, for your part, you regret that, whenever you ask for interlocutors in the different parties, none come to you. It is therefore a little difficult to work under these conditions. At the same time, you stated that you would not work until there was an impact study. However, the latter is not even attributed. Minister, I would like to hear from you about this judgment, even if, as you said, we will not get away with it. After this judgment, there will be another, and then another, etc. Are you going to review your timings and try to move on? I repeat that, for us, the important thing is the security of all citizens. But the concept of population density is also fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u5	We have no news of Mrs Karin Jiroflée, who was to complete this florilege of questions. I therefore give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Botte, Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Wollants, Mrs Lalieux, your questions are in themselves an illustration of the complexity of the dossier. The President of the Court of First Instance indeed delivered an interim ruling in the file on 30 May 2018. The judge orders the State to withdraw six of the seven phases from the Wathelet plan. The only phase that remains spared is the phase that gave rise to the moratorium following the July 2014 judgment. The judge also recommends the organisation of a State-General on the issue of flights, laying down its composition, the agenda and the order of business. This judgment is still under consideration by our lawyers and, of course, also by my firm, because it is of great complexity. It is therefore too early to decide on the options for appeal and implementation of this judgment. I cannot give details about the States-General at this stage either. However, I have always argued that a solution would not result from judicial decisions. The court has already ruled in the opposite way. Sometimes statements are also reactions to other statements. It is therefore not possible to find a lasting solution to the problem. In this dossier there is a need for a global solution covering all its dimensions, in particular the economic aspect, the technical aspects, the legal positions and so on. I tabled, more than a year ago, a draft comprehensive solution on the table, but without the interlocutors agreeing on it to start the discussion. The division is at all levels: between the Regions, between the neighborhoods, between the associations, between the trade unions, between the employers' organizations, between the mayors relaying the concerns of their own commune, and even within the parties. That is the reality in which we live today! I have always said that the solution should be comprehensive, equitable, that is, fair and balanced. That's the solution I've been working on. The last two judgements are totally opposed. They are the image of all the interlocutors who are around the table and who have the file in their hands. If I combine the economic opinions, the environmental opinions, the legal opinions expressed publicly by everyone, you will easily understand the extent of the task. My table is large and open to anyone who wants to sit there. I look forward to the answers of all the actors and technical, political, administrative, trade union and business interlocutors. My address is 1 Ernest Blerot Street. I'll wait for them whenever they want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u7	Minister, I have been in this Chamber for some time, but I have never received such a clear answer. It was very clear, in the sense that you said that you were nowhere on the subject, that you had not yet had time to read the judgment, that the positions were opposed and that it was a difficult and complex matter. You also said that you invited everyone to seek a consensus, that you proposed a draft law a year ago, but that no one would even agree to your invitation to discuss it. Mr President-in-Office, all this is happening, regardless of the environmental problem, at the heart of the economic strength of the region and the country. The lack of clarity continues. The lawsuit's gonna follow each other. And now you're here to say that you haven't been able to study the judgment. You insist on a consensus despite the fact that no one agrees with your invitation to talk about your proposal. We have to do it. [[!]] Minister, it seems to me that it is time for you to see the line. You can then fall on your back and say that it is now up to someone else to deal with the file. Take responsibility, Minister. I would like to respond to what Mr Van Rompuy said. He ruled the judge has gone too far. I believe that the judge has given a very clear signal to seek consensus, to organise a state-general, but above all to provide legal certainty on the basis of a balanced distribution. The judge has ruled that there is currently no balanced distribution. I can assure you that this is also the reason why five municipalities went to court. After all, there is an uneven distribution of the burden. The judge calls for a consensus on a balanced distribution. In this respect, the States-General can play a role, but you have not said anything about it either, Minister. It is therefore to wait until 17 September to establish that there is nothing to be gained at that point. Finally, it is very strange that in addition to the five municipalities, the Flemish Government has also taken part. At a time like this, people end up in a game of hypocrisy. We have very often called on the Minister of the Flemish Government, Mr Weyts, from the Noordrand congregations, to invoke a conflict of interest and to engage in a debate with the federal government in response to these measures. In this way, a consensus could have been sought. However, this has not happened. Now the federal government, of which one is a member, is being accused from the N-VA that no listening ear was found. We also want Flanders to assume its responsibility and that the Flemish Government, following the judgment in which it was agreed, tries to tackle the matter on the basis of an interministerial consultation. This can be enforced with a conflict of interest. Otherwise, we may have to live on with the uncertainties and perhaps also with the unfair concentration over the Noordrand municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u8	Mr Bonte, let us not turn this into a party policy game. I have experienced the periods when Bert Anciaux and Renaat Landuyt respectively were responsible for the airport and they too have not made any progress. The file has for years paralyzed Belgian politics by the contradictions. Planes over Brussels are different from planes over the North Rand. In addition, there are several routes above the Noordrand, as well as over the Oostrand, where Leuven is taken straight through or takes off from runway 19 to Sterrebeek and so to Tervuren and Overijse. The interests vary according to the municipality. They never got out of there, and I am extremely pessimistic about that. I've been following that file for over 15 years. During that period I have always been ships in the municipality of Zaventem. People always try to pass the nuisance on to others. I support the Minister's view that at a time when historical routes are being taken into account, we must dare to consider the whole. The municipalities that have now lodged a complaint have historically been burdened with processing. If one reduces this burden by taxing other municipalities in the Oostrand... One job has shifted a bit, Leuven Straight ahead, and the result is that there is also an action group in that neighborhood. Mrs Van Hoof, you are also here to ask a question about this. However, this will never be possible. I'm very pessimistic. There will be municipal elections and that is a huge thing in Brussels. That is also with us and in the Oostrand and the Noordrand. It will be very difficult to draw a red line. Moreover, according to the government agreement, preference for employment cannot be changed. That's literally what it says. Mr Bonte, you cannot just come here and argue that the solution must come from the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u9	I'm asking the government for a solution, but she's not answering.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u10	Nor can it provide an answer, because the interests at present are too contradictory. That way one will never get out. I can only give the Minister one piece of advice: stay as close as possible to the use of historic jobs. During the period 2008-2010, Secretary of State Schouppe was very close to an agreement. However, the elections could not bring this to a successful conclusion. Then the cdH with Wathelet and Fonck among others started with new jobs and routes. It then went completely wrong, because the judges of Brussels also interfered. I also had to go to court myself to destroy the IKEA route. There was then a whole discussion between the federal and Flemish governments with a conflict of interest, which could not be resolved, because the government had fallen. In any case, the government cannot be blamed for not finding a solution, because it cannot find a solution, as long as everyone chooses for their own interests. The noise at one is simply passed on to the other, so it will be very difficult. I am not so pessimistic that the airport will no longer exist, because I have heard that for 15 years now, while the number of passengers last year has only increased again compared to previous years. We are now almost back at the level of 2001, above 20 million. So we should not be too pessimistic either. The most sensible thing is to learn to live with the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u11	It is clear, Minister, that a great deal of progress will have to be made before we reach a solution. I have not learned much about the steps being taken today, but I would like to say a few things. Firstly, I do not, of course, follow the dossier as long as Mr Van Rompuy has. I have been following the dossier closely for 13 years and I have to say that I have seen a great deal. I hear a lot of talk about the historical use of jobs. More than that, every population in our country is asking for a return to historical job use, but that moment lies somewhere else in time for everyone. For some, this is a return to job use in the 1960s, where people flew straight across Brussels; for others, it is a return to the use of the Durant period, and for others, it is a return to the use of the Schouppe period, on which, by the way, a fairly broad agreement had been reached, if only because it would be easier to make an agreement as long as it was not implemented. Wathelet has made some serious mistakes and wrong decisions, but a number of proposals that Schouppe had put on paper have just as well been challenged and then undermined by the parties who were at the table and who had signed them. A mere return to the Schouppe agreement is not an option, but I think it is sensible to find a solution based on the balance that Schouppe was trying to achieve. That's the way we should go, I think. It's just... it's all too slow. That is easy to say, because a solution is not up for grabs. The fact that you have been the 10th Minister since Durant faced with the problem does not make it any easier. Everyone's in a hedgehog setting. I stand by it: if you want to move forward, everyone must sit at the table and concessions must be made in all directions. Anyone who comes to the table without wanting to take up some of the inconvenience can leave the table again, as far as I am concerned, because that is never the way to find a solution. You are right: legal procedures will not lead to a solution. However, if there is no willingness to compromise, the problem will continue until it is. We will then have serious problems with the airport and we will then suddenly find that the courts make it impossible to reach an agreement. That's what I'm afraid of. I can only urge you to do so as soon as possible. You do not even have to wait until September to invite everyone around the table. That can be done if necessary in a public meeting, I do not care, but let it be clear that we want to move forward and that we should stay home without concessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u12	Minister, indeed, your answer does not teach us anything. As usual, you say that the interlocutors disagree. I can hear him. It's been years! I would remind you that after the Wathelet plan, the MR made all his election campaign in Brussels to say that you were going to take responsibility. You took them. The MR has been in charge of Mobility for four years, and for four years now it has been stationary in terms of overflight and law as regards the overflight of Brussels and its periphery. That is the reality! As a responsible minister with mobility skills, it is not up to you to take on your responsibilities. If you made a proposal a year ago to the government, I don't understand why the government is not discussing it. The reason why he does not argue, you have revealed it in the press: no one sends you interlocutors! You said it in L'Echo, two weeks ago, and you said it in your answer here. Today, admit that the blockage is first at the level of government and that you cannot bring solutions to this level, because the partners do not agree. In the meantime, nuisances continue for all the populations overflying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u13	Mr President, Minister, we have learned from the newspaper De Tijd of 5 April 2018 that the head of the port of Antwerp, the CEO of lnfrabel and the Flemish Minister of Mobility have decided to meet in order to negotiate the transfer of 1,000 kilometres of railway lines to the port, i.e. a regionalisation of infrastructure currently owned by a federal public undertaking. Minister, have you or yourself been informed of the organization of this meeting? Does the government approve the sale of railway infrastructure in the port of Antwerp? Has the board of directors of lnfrabel been consulted in this regard? Who participated in this meeting? What came out of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u14	Dear colleague, my office was not associated with this meeting. A telephone contact of the members of my office with a person in charge of the port of Antwerp took place after the meeting in order to find out more about the nature and content of the demand. In any event, this contact clearly revealed that the port of Antwerp is not an applicant to arrange a transfer of the tracks located in the port. The port of Antwerp and, by extension, the other ports intend to examine with Infrabel how to set up a more efficient organization of the transport of cargo within the ports as well as at the departure and destination of the ports. A working group on the subject had therefore been set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. What surprises me is that you have guardianship over Infrabel. It is pleased that no regionalization of Infrabel or SNCB is planned. I do not think it is right that these meetings should be held without you even being informed of them. It is completely incorrect on the part of some of your partners (the N-VA) and other members of your government who take the initiative to organize a meeting without even keeping you informed or inviting you to do so. I hear that there would be no sale of railway infrastructure, and that reassures me. I hope that, in the event that this will is displayed, you will firmly oppose it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u16	Mrs Lalieux, you have the floor for your question No. 25456 on the status of the Director of DGTA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u17	Mr President, with regard to a personal case in which I am going to disclose a certain number of data, I would ask for a decision to be taken in camera.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u18	Would you like us to do it at the end of the session?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u19	I can give you the answer or we can do it afterwards - perhaps everyone is interested - on the sole condition that the content of the answer is not made public and will not be the subject of the annals or the summary record. As soon as this is a personal individual case, I would like to make transparency with regard to Members, but I still ask for compliance with the rules on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u20	What does the President decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u21	It is not the Chair who decides whether or not there is in camera, but it is usually the committee. I don't know if there are any closed doors on questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u22	We do not have a quorum anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u23	Mr President, we are not going to blow because today's agenda is very busy. Minister, I suggest that you look at what the Rules say about personal cases. I do not think that we can order a closed session in committee in the context of oral questions, even if I can understand that. We are not going to have a procedural debate here. I suggest that you continue with the other oral questions. I'll think about it and see you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u25	Minister, this has been a long-standing issue and, at some point, we would like to see it clear in relation to the DGTA. Mr. Chairman, continue the meeting and we will see what we decide,
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I regularly come back to this committee at the Leuven station, because I often come there and I get a lot of questions about it. The number of passengers in Leuven has increased in recent months, including through road works on the Brussels tunnels. Two elements give rise to concern. Work has been going on in the station for a long time, both on the platforms as well as on the underpass and the cafeteria. Also on part of Martelarenplein passengers are hindered to easily reach the platform. In a previous reply, you indicated that these works would last until May. Platform 1 is now accessible again and the good news is that access to the cafeteria is also possible again. A second recurring problem is the defective escalators and elevators. That is certainly a chronic problem for which no solution can be found. No escalator worked today. For people who are less mobile, that means a very big problem. In a previous reply you indicated that the lifts and escalators are maintained systematically. You said that the escalators and elevators are maintained about six times a year and tested four times a year. Well, that maintenance plan doesn't seem to be enough. Almost daily there are lifts or escalators defective. Very often, especially less mobile passengers can only reach their platform with great difficulty. The defects sometimes drag on for weeks and it's a recurring problem. Several parties in the local media regularly raise the alarm. What progress has been made, Minister? Has the current phase of the works been effectively completed, as you mentioned in your previous reply? The faulty escalators and lifts are a structural problem in the station of Leuven. The current maintenance plan is not enough. How can we ensure that escalators and elevators continue to work properly in the future? Are more checks possible a solution? Should new materials be provided? What other solutions do you see?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that the works on the platforms are progressing as planned. The works on platform 1 were completed. At the moment work is being done on the passage between the station and the signal house, on the connection between platform 1 and the Martelarenplein, and on the technical block near the tunnel on the side Tienen. It is expected that these works will be ready for the start of construction leave. This means that the tunnel on the side Tienen will also be accessible again. At the moment, the works on platform 2-3 are also being started. According to the plans, these will last until spring 2019. SNCB will also renew the guardrails and the lighting of all the stairs to the tunnels on the sides of Brussels and Tienen. SNCB acknowledges that the availability of the lifts remains absolutely inadequate. The framework agreement with Schindler states, inter alia, that the company guarantees an availability of 95%. SNCB has written to this company several times before. The cause is due to two fundamental problems. First of all, the door blades are too heavy for the door construction itself. In the meantime, SNCB has asked the company for a study and a bid to strengthen these doors. Secondly, the oil from the pistons gets overheated in hot weather. To this end, SNCB asked the company for the possibility of providing additional cooling. The escalators in the underpass, lace Tienen, are highly outdated. Spare parts can only be custom made. SNCB is currently analysing a bid for a thorough overhaul of these escalators.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u28	Minister, it is a good thing that SNCB is aware that it cannot go on like this and that the company is being questioned. The causes are known, both as regards escalators and elevators. If it drags on any longer, I will ask another question about this. One has to fail the firm. It cannot be that in a station where hundreds of thousands of passengers pass, one cannot reach the platforms when one is less mobile. I've been asking questions about that for two years now. If things don't get better in the next six months, the company's notice of default must be carried out and new tenders must be issued to ensure that passengers can get to the platform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u29	Mr President, Minister, on Tuesday, April 17, a train stationed at the station in Tournai started moving when there were no staff members on board. The train then began a descent. Fortunately, the train did not take a main track and ended its race in a cul-de-sac by heeling a needle. There were no injuries. The worst was avoided. Minister, do you have any information about this incident? How come this train was able to get on its own? What material damage has it caused?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SNCB informs me that the rolling stock was without power supply following the lowering of the pantograph. In such a situation, after 90 minutes, the power supply provided by the batteries stops and the parking brake is released. At the location where the equipment was stationed, the low gradient was sufficient to cause its movement and drift. SNCB states that drivers are regularly made aware of the issue of keeping rolling stock stationary and immobilizing and that a change in the parking brake control has been developed and tested. Its implementation is scheduled for the end of 2018. To prevent such an incident from endangering train traffic, both tracks are separated by a derailment needle. This needle is intended to protect traffic from drifting rolling stock. So here she played her part perfectly. Infrabel informs me that the material damage was minor. Only one shutdown was damaged. All necessary checks have been carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u31	Minister, thanks to the needle that avoided a whole series of possible problems. Admit it's still a little amazing and stressful. We already have in Tournai the Ramdam festival of the film that disturbs. I hope that this will continue to be science fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u32	Questions Nos 25479, 25533 and 25541 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u33	Mr President, Minister, we will therefore continue to ask you questions about the overflight of Brussels! In response to a topical question asked in the plenary of the House about two weeks ago, you indicated your intention to take steps soon to change the wind standards for take-offs and landings at Brussels Airport. This causes legitimate fear in many Flemish and Brussels residents. Indeed, if your initiative were to materialize, it would move some of the nuisances currently suffered by the Oostrand towards the Noordrand and the densely populated communes of the centre of Brussels. Thus, you would move the problem of nuisances without dealing with it structurally, contrary to what you have always claimed, just as you have just done, about twenty minutes ago. Minister, this project is a one-off measure. When do you finally plan to present us with a general plan to reduce the nuisances promised since you took office and, before you, by your predecessor? According to a November 2016 ULB study on air routes, landings on the so-called straight-line 07L runway cause nuisances in 285,486 Brussels and Flemish residents. In addition, a possible intensification of landings on Runway 07L by all types of time and safely requires that this runway be equipped with a satellite navigation tool called Required Navigation Performance or RNP. As you reminded me in response to an oral question I asked you on 7 June 2017, "the 07L track can currently only be used in good visibility due to lack of equipment or proper procedure". Is Runway 07L now equipped with an RNP system? If so, how long? Are you considering giving instructions or have you already instructed Belgocontrol to publish an AIP amendment to allow the use of this RNP procedure? If so, when? Finally, last summer, the Brussels Court of First Instance ordered the State to stop the violations of the Brussels Region's "Noise" Order. For the so-called Canal Road, the judge asked you to cease the offences for the day as for the night. However, your project would intensify an overflight for this take-off road. How, then, will you respect this judgment? What is the status of the impact study called for by this judgment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u34	Mr President, Minister, my question goes along with Mr Hellings'. You'd be working on the interpretation of wind standards. To date there has been a variation element in it to allow the airport and traffic controllers to organise themselves to fly against the wind. It concerns the standard of 7 knots, for which some clearance is provided, in order to be able to respond more effectively to changes that are there. What is important is that if this were to be established at those 7 knots and only left from there, this would not provide 100% security for safety. On the contrary, it would be less certain than if that variant were given. It also runs counter to the government agreement, which stipulated that the 2010 and 2008 rules would be retained. If one leaves with a larger backwind than 7 knots, one also causes more noise and pollution, as opposed to the situation where one changes orbit faster because of the changed direction of the wind. Moreover, it is sometimes said in the press that it means a spread, about Brussels, about Wallonia and about Flanders. The impact of a measure such as this once again gives rise to an additional tax on the Noordrand, which is already receiving more than 80% of the flights. The little rest that could be caused by changing the direction of the wind is also being taken away. Wind directions cannot be dictated, but it is important that we take the interpretations with us in a correct way. Minister, what is the state of this arrangement? Is it possible to make it very clear to the municipalities around Brussels as well what the impact of this measure might be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u35	Minister, the subject of the question is the same. A lot of points are similar. You are planning to adjust the wind standards to stop using the two-button margin. This means that we must not change anymore, as long as the backwind component of 7 knots has not yet been reached. We know that, according to the government agreement, the airport agreement of 2010, which we have already mentioned, remains the basis of the policy. It is quite clear that this tolerance must ensure that jobs can be changed smoothly. You seem to be leaving that slope now, despite the fact that the same government agreement states that wind standards are maintained and would be legally anchored. This leads to a number of questions, supplementary to those of Mrs Becq. Firstly, what are your specific plans for wind standards? What will they look like, knowing that one of your predecessors fought quite a fierce feud with then Prime Minister Peeters on just the interpretation of wind standards, as adapted by Mr Wathelet? Secondly, Belgocontrol has already indicated that changing jobs takes time. If you have to do that very brutally, you have security implications. From a safety point of view, it is absolutely essential to avoid doing so too brutally. How do you reconcile that with a proposal that would remove the tolerance, which would require more changes at the time when the wind force is around 7 knots? I look forward to the answer on your approach and your plans in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u36	Yes, it's the same acabit as the previous one. My proposal is based on the conclusions of the audit on the use of the PRS at Brussels National Airport, which I asked the Director-General of Aviation. All the actors, who have also come to this committee, asked for clarification on the applicable instructions. On this basis, I have continued to work to present a dossier with more clearly defined standards which should enable air traffic controllers to work in a more clear and secure context. The current confusion between past instructions and standards must be eliminated, which leads to sometimes difficult airway choices. The multiplicity of instructions creates a situation in which today, auditors are questioned by an investigating judge on their choice of leads. In practice, my proposal maintains the use of preferential runways and therefore the airport's preferential operating logic for longer. My proposal clarifies the wind standards. Indeed, there must be more than 7 knots of backwind to deviate from the PRS. For the definition of wind blows, I take over the rules of the International Civil Aviation Organisation ICAO, which are international standards. I would also like to link this clarification to a new take-off procedure which will reduce the impact of noise on the ground by achieving higher altitudes more quickly. A similar procedure could also be introduced for landings, in particular the continuous descent operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u37	In addition, with all these measures, each Region will benefit from measures to mitigate nuisances. This proposal has not yet reached a consensus. Discussions continue and I ensure that the solution benefits the people of all regions of the country, in any case those surrounding the airport. The establishment of the PBN (Performance Based Navigation) in 07L is an international negotiation linked to an improvement in security imposed by the international authorities. The PBN has been well placed on 07L since the work of 01 which took place in the summer of 2016. I would point out, however, that the use of 07L is non-preferential and secondary, and must remain so. I am currently studying the procedural obligations that would be required in this case. As regards the environmental impact study, the contract was awarded. However, I cannot say any more because we are currently in the standstill period. This means that all those who have submitted an offer are informed, but nothing can be publicly announced, to allow each party time to decide on the follow-up to this award decision, the standstill period being two weeks. I would also like to reply to Mr. Hellings, who said that the clarification of wind standards would intensify an overflight on the Canal route. It should be noted that the clarification of these wind standards would reduce the number of aircraft landing on Runway 07L by more than 30-40%. I would remind you that when you take the Canal route, it is in a much smaller proportion. When 10,000 aircraft take off from Runway 25R, about 4,600 to 4,700 of them depart from the Noordrand, 4,200 from the Oostrand and the rest from all other roads. But compared to that, there may be 3 or 4 000 fewer people using Route 07L, which crosses Brussels from one side to another to land. So, when you compare the proportions, compare the numbers. I don't know exactly how many planes go through the Canal route, but it's about a few thousand. So it's about 1 or 2 per cent. For Runway 07L, that's a lot more. I hope you understand the reasoning. If you clarify the wind standards, the preferred tracks will be those that are used mostly. So, proportionally, Brussels is overflying much less on its central part, but much more on the periphery areas in Brussels. If we clarify the wind standards, we have far fewer aircraft taking off by Leuven, for example. And we know that when we take off, planes make a lot more noise than when we land.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u38	Minister, you are Minister of Mobility, not Minister of Economic Activity at the airport. Your supervision is exercised over the Directorate-General for Air Transport, and not over the Brussels Airport company. So, you set the procedures. I welcome the fact that you are trying to ensure that once and for all a procedure is set against wind standards. But you also set out the procedures for limiting nuisances. Your objective, contrary to what is desired by the airport and Belgocontrol, is not to maximize economic activity at the airport by allowing the use of the two parallel runways at all times. Fourth, you clearly told me that the PBN, as you call it, was already installed on Runway 07L. The technology is installed. However, to change the secondary use of Runway 07, you would need to publish an amendment to the PIA. We will be very attentive to that. Runway 07 should not be used more frequently, which, I repeat, would intensify the overflight of more or less 280,000 people... 280,000 people affected! I have heard that at this stage the system was installed but that the standards in force did not allow it to be used continuously. This remains a secondary road for now. You should not publish an amendment to the IPA that would make it a primary route. When you talk about investigating your procedural obligations, I beg you not to publish an amendment to the IPA. It would be a disaster and the return of a form of Wathelet plan or Bellot plan around an extremely densely populated area in the northwest of Brussels. Finally, as far as impact studies are concerned, it is high time that this contract was awarded. I hope that the next time I ask you about this, we will know more about the implementation of this court decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u39	Mr Minister, I did not quite understand the state of play with regard to the regulation of wind standards, but that may be up to me. I realize it's a very difficult file. The previous questions have proved that. Everyone's looking at it from their point of view. You say you want to put an end to the uncertainty about the direction at 5 or 7 knots. I have always understood that between 5 and 7 knots have been provided for in nuances, because they have a little more margin in preparation. Once above 7 knots, the back wind is also much tighter. In addition, when calculating at the 7 knots, the transverse winds are taken on one occasion and not on the other. I therefore hope, Minister, that you will be able to discuss this with a view to security. You remind us that thousands of people are being flown over. I think it is equally important that you take into account the fact that some are flying 90 % or 95 % of the time and others perhaps once or twice, or at most 10 % of the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll read it again to make sure I understood everything correctly. You say that you want to clarify wind standards. I agree with Mrs Becq. By the way, I don't need to remind you how we got to the 5+2 button standard. You want to apply civil aviation standards. Now, ICAO recommends a maximum of 5 knots of backwind and a maximum of 15 knots of crosswind. In 2010, following the airside study, Mr Schouppe chose to take 2 knots to make it easy to apply the scheme and not to exchange much. Now, instead of working with Mr Schouppe's 5+2 standard, you want to use the 7 knots standard. This is something like painting not 120 but 126 km per hour on road signs, as one only starts flashing from 126 km per hour. That can't be the intention. We will, of course, examine the matter in detail in order to come up with a good proposal. With your system, where instead of the standard of 5 knots one of 7 knots is used, we will soon reach a standard of 9 knots and then soon again in the situation of Mr Wathelet, who proposed 12 knots.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u41	Mr Wollants, ladies and gentlemen, I really ask you to go into this matter with the necessary expertise. The criticism we can make to Belgium is that we do not apply the international rules to which we subscribe. This clarification of wind standards is the application of the ICAO standards. That's the international standard. I'm not derogating from anything. At present, we are derogating from international standards. We are asked to respect them, no more, no less. I'm not doing anything else. We're applying them. We showed them to Belgocontrol. We showed them to the pilot associations. They tell us that when they come to Brussels, they have to apply rules different from those applied at all airports around the world. We must apply the international rule, including the definition of wind standards. When I talk about wind standards, I talk about gusts. These are not medium winds. That, we know what it is. We must adopt the international definition of gust. That is what the clarification of wind standards is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u42	Minister, I would like to point out that it is indeed ICAO's recommendation to use 515. I would also like to point out that there are different approaches to this at different airports. In other words, it's different everywhere. If you land in London under wet conditions, there is a limit for the backwind of 0 knots. That is quite different from what is being proposed here. I am not going along with the story that we have to pull everything up, because that is in line with the standards. If you are talking about the calculation gusts included or gusts excluded, I can follow you for one piece, but not when it comes to the exact wind standard. It is based in our country on ICAO's recommendation of 515. A margin has been applied to that recommendation and you want to finish it up now. It will certainly not be the last word on wind standards. I have the impression that there is still some substance for discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u43	I suggest you stay there. This is not a debate, even if the subject is extremely interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u44	Questions No 25605 by Mrs Lambrecht and No 25665 by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u45	Minister, according to the spokesperson for Vias, Benoît Godart, 17,187 road accidents related to a tricolored crossing were recorded in Belgium between 2011 and 2015. My question relates to a specific case, namely a type of lamp which may, on certain occasions, lead the driver slightly distracted in error. Some intersections are equipped with lights in which the light signal at the bottom, which is normally green, is replaced by an orange flashing signal. This type of light signal allows you to engage in the intersection according to the priority rules. In addition, at any time, this lamp can, like a classic tricolor light, become orange via its middle signal and then red via its signal located at the top. Most of the time, the signal emitted by this type of light is the orange signal flashing through its signal from the bottom. It only passes with orange and red only very rarely. For motorists who travel daily through a crossroads using this type of light, a certain routine can be established and when the fire passes to the orange via its medium signal, the difference is not necessarily obvious. So, minister, why not consider replacing the colour of the flashing orange light signal with another color? The distinction would be more obvious and would prevent the driver distracted from being misled. Would you be in favour of this solution? Has this thought already been done?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are currently no plans to change the orange-yellow colour of the flashing light for flashing signals, as there are no statistics which would tend to prove that this type of fire is more accidental than the signal lights of the tricolor system. However, if flashing signals from some intersections were to be found to be a real problem, it would be more appropriate to require the road manager's intervention, given that the road manager has, in principle, the detailed reports of each accident. Thus, if accidents were found to be due to misinterpretation of the fire by motorists, the manager would have the possibility to replace the light with a conventional green light or to take other measures to secure traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u47	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. In any case, for some fires, I will turn to the network manager, because I can assure you, to go to certain places very often, that people often go red, without wanting to. I am thinking here, in particular, of a place where there have already been a lot of accidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u48	Mr President, Minister, two weeks ago we had a debate in plenary on the heavy professions and on the famous list resulting from a draft agreement between the Minister for Pensions and the trade unions, on the heavy professions in the government. Of course, it is merely a draft agreement, because the government had not yet discussed or approved the list when I drew up my question. There is therefore a need for caution, because the list is far from being established. There are several functions on this list that relate to the public undertakings within your jurisdiction. Among other things, the mobile staff of SNCB and Infrabel, the air traffic controllers of Belgocontrol and the postmen are recognised as a heavy occupation according to the preliminary draft agreement. The recognition as a heavy occupation has important implications for the pension of the occupational categories concerned, as they will then be eligible for an early retirement pension. It is an objective of the government to extend the average career to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, because our country has one of Europe's shortest careers. Of course, everything must be in balance and the more people can retire early, the longer the others will have to work. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you give the correct list contained in the draft agreement, which relates to the public undertakings under your jurisdiction? Was your cabinet involved in these negotiations? If so, what position have you taken? What is your view of the list?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u49	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, I am sure you know that the negotiations on pensions are currently taking place on the subject of the heavy professions. This is done under the praiseworthy leadership of my colleague in charge of pensions. My cabinet was not at the negotiating table, but was kept informed of the discussion on the heavy professions for which I have powers. In this context, I would like to point out that I have always drawn attention to the particularly difficult nature of certain railway professions and to the profession of air traffic controller. Indeed, all experts recognise the high level of gravity of certain professions carried out by railway staff. I am thinking, for example, of rail workers working day and night, as well as of train drivers and train supervisors. Several aspects in their daily task exercise make them difficult occupations. This may also be part of the difficulties we face in recruiting train drivers and train drivers. This recognition also applies to air traffic controllers. In particular, they are under intense stress due to their great responsibility for aviation safety. Consequently, I will continue to defend that position and continue to draw my colleagues in the government's attention to the specificity of these two sectors, so that this is taken into account in the context of the current debate. For more details, please refer to my colleague, the Minister for Pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u50	Minister, we know the criteria on which there is an agreement and which will be taken into account to determine whether or not an appeal is a serious appeal. Among other things, the stress level or irregular hours are included. I have every sympathy for that. I can understand that an air traffic controller or a train driver has other tasks than, for example, the rest of the railway staff. That is why drivers are currently entitled to retire at the age of 55. However, the list I saw included station staff, for example. That doesn't meet the criteria, does it? If, for example, shopkeepers in a station are also considered to be a heavy occupation and if we accept that list in this way, then we ourselves lose the basis for the criteria. The criteria are justified. Air traffic controllers, for example, must maintain their concentration, bear a huge responsibility and are under stress. However, there must be some seriousness. It is in everyone's interest that we determine the categories as fairly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I read in the press release of the Council of Ministers that on 18 May a preliminary draft law and a draft royal decree on the revision of the statutes of the Ombudsman for rail passengers was approved by the government. That press release states that you must transpose the European directives and recognise an independent ombud service that can mediate as a qualified entity and guarantee an out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. Independence and impartiality are the most important words for an ombud service. Today, the Ombuds service for rail passengers is an autonomous service financed by the FPS Mobility and Transport and therefore does not have financial autonomy. Those legal adjustments should therefore be made. The sector, in particular SNCB, Infrabel, other railway undertakings and holders of safety certificates, should contribute to financing. I've been looking at the Telecommunications Ombuds service and the Post Office. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. How is the contribution requested from the sector calculated? Is it the FPS Mobility that controls this or does the ombudsdienst have full autonomy? It is important that the ombudsdienst meets the independence and impartiality requirements, as the press release also shows. Can the ombudsdienst work effectively independently of the political level or the management level of the FPS? What guarantees are in place for this? Finally, how does the appointment, appointment and evaluation of the ombudswoman or man go?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u52	Mr President, Mr Geerts, in the preliminary draft law on the Ombudsman service for rail passengers, the Minister responsible for Mobility, on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers, determines the annual total amount of the ombuds contributions due by each railway undertaking and by the holder of the safety licence. The share of the holder of the safety licence shall be 5% of the total amount. The share of railway undertakings is 95% of the total. The amount due shall be calculated for each railway undertaking in proportion to the number of train kilometres performed during the reference period. The reference period shall begin on 1 July of the year to the penultimate year for which the contribution is due and end on 30 June of the year preceding the year for which the contribution is due. The train kilometres carried out by each railway undertaking shall be communicated to the Minister immediately after the end of each quarter by the holder of the safety authorisation. The ombudsdienst has complete autonomy and falls outside the control of the FPS Mobility. The preliminary draft on the Ombudsman service for rail passengers and the draft royal decree on the same service aim to ensure that the service has the necessary independence requirements to ensure the proper performance of its task in order to be recognised as a qualified entity within the meaning of the Code of Economic Law. It is, moreover, from that point of view that the aforementioned drafts are submitted to the FPS Economy, which is responsible for drawing up the list of qualified entities. In accordance with the above-mentioned draft royal decree, the selection of ombudswomen/ombudsmen will be carried out by the DG Recruitment and Development of the FPS Policy and Support. The ombudswomen/ombudsmen will be appointed by the King by a decision of the Council of Ministers for a renewable five-year term of office. The ombudswomen/ombudsmen must fulfil a set of conditions, including the condition not to hold a position in a railway undertaking or with an infrastructure manager. If the ombudswoman/ombudsman receives the assessment "met expectations" after the end of his/her mandate, the mandate shall be automatically renewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have some additional questions. The amount due by the operators is discussed in the Council of Ministers. When I look at the telecommunications and postal sector, there is, for example, an opinion from the Council of Users. Is an advice given here to determine the size of the global resources that an ombud service has? Or is that done in consultation with the operators? For telecoms, for example, operators are also entitled to look at the whole of the resources, although in consultation with BIPT. A second element. As regards selection, you say that it is a KB, discussed in the Council of Ministers, and that it is for five years. Does this mean that this is always a full five-year mandate to be carried out in full? Or is a suspension of operation possible within the mandate? I have had a debate with Minister De Croo on the appointment of BIPT. In the selection procedure there, after the assessment the minister had to take the coffee. It was then the Minister's autonomous power to refer a decision to the Council of Ministers, depending on the outcome. I did not find and find such a procedure healthy in terms of independence. How does that work? In addition, you say that a positive assessment will automatically extend the mandate. Then who is responsible for this assessment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u54	This is a reply, not a supplementary question. Nothing prevents you from repeating a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u55	No problem. I'll ask those questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u56	Questions Nos 25765 and 25803 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, 25919 by Mr Jef Van den Bergh and 25801 by Mr Benoit Hellings are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u57	Mr Minister, this question concerns the application of regulations to cycle paths, with particular questions about the location of speed pedals. The rules on speed pedals are set out in the Royal Decree of 1 October 2016. Since the publication of that royal decree, many stakeholders have been wrestling with the current regulations, with speed pedelec generally getting the place on the road of a moped class B. With custom traffic signs and underboards, the road managers can deviate from that rule. In practice, few road signs have really been adapted to allow speedpedelecs, where I think about the roads along canals and the bicycle ostrades. The road managers often have the will to take steps, but the costs are increasing and the installation of road signs takes some time. I've already asked several questions about that. You stick to the view that the current rules have been established with the various stakeholders, but you say you are open to moving insights. Mr Minister, today I would like to ask you a few specific questions which could lead to a clearer regulation, given the exponential increase in the number of speed pedals on bicycle paths, on hunting paths and on bicycle ostrades. At the moment, a bicycle path is marked with a D7 sign as part of the public road. That sign is therefore not applicable to free-standing bicycle ostrades, as these are separate from the rest of the public roads. Cycling highways cannot therefore be marked with a D7 sign. However, the D7 traffic sign on bike highways can be a way of giving pedestrians access to the bicycle ostrades, provided that they give priority to cyclists. How do you feel about that? Is that discussed in the Technical Working Group on the Road Code? How do you want to deal with that in the new Road Code? In addition to the slope of using the D7 traffic sign, the slope exists to make the place on the road not dependent on the type of vehicle, so independently of the speed pedal or any other type of bike, but depending on the speed driven, as is the case today for cars. With a speed pedal you can drive faster than 30 kilometers per hour, but in certain places that cannot be allowed. If we go through that reasoning to cyclists and speed pedals, we can come up with a regulation which states that within the built-up area there is a maximum speed of 30 kilometres per hour, as is the case in the Netherlands, for example, and 45 kilometres per hour outside the built-up area. Anyone who wants to drive faster within the built-up area must drive mixed between the traffic on the road. At the moment there are speed limits on some cycling routes. Think of pedestrian zones, residential heirs, hunting trails, reserved roads and bicycle streets. However, this is not the case today on classic bicycle paths. You mentioned earlier that this is an interesting slope but the speed policy is obviously a competence of the Regions. The question is therefore whether this has been examined and examined in the technical working group. Have there been any ideas on this? Finally, I have a final question concerning the follow-up to the evolution of the number of speed pedals and their users. Could you please provide us with the latest figures on the number of registered speed pedals in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u58	Dear colleague, in 2016 the possibility of allowing speedpedelecs to enter the reserved roads with the traffic sign F99 was provided. In this case, the symbol of the speed pedal shall be affixed to these traffic signs. This seems to me to meet your question, except for the point that pedestrians should give priority to speed pedals in that case. This doesn't seem like the best option. If pedestrians are allowed, they remain the most vulnerable road users and therefore deserve protection. If road managers wish, they can limit access to these roads to, for example, cyclists and speed pedals drivers. If pedestrians still have to have access, a road marking can be placed that separates cyclists and speed pedals from pedestrians. This can then be clarified on the road sign F99. In the context of discussions on the revision of the Road Code, the simplification of the current dual regime on reserved roads was discussed. A text proposal was sent to the Regions for advice. At the same time, I must repeat that speed on bicycle paths is indeed a regional competence. That is why this was only dealt with side by side during the discussion in the working group. In the light of the latest state reform, the initiative will therefore have to come from the regions. If this happens, I will consider whether the traffic regulations concerning the location of the drivers on the public road, which is a federal competence, should also be amended. I will also provide you with a table showing the number of number plates delivered per province for speed pedals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u59	Minister, I look forward to that table with the figures. Your answer does focus on using the F99 sign for the speed pedals on reserved roads. The question that arises is mainly directed at the bicycle ostrades, which are perhaps a bit similar to the RAVeL cycle paths in Wallonia: can they also be referred to by a road sign D7? The problem that might arise there, but that is an interpretation, is that the sign D7 is defined today as an indication of a bicycle path as part of the public road rather than as a separate public road. If the bike path is separate, such as a bicycle ostrade and a RAVeL road, one can discuss whether this is part of the public road or a public road. I have not really received a clear answer, but perhaps I should repeat this question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u60	Mr President, Minister, this is again a question about the interpretation of the Road Code, in particular about the differences between motorised engines and mopeds. The Road Code provides that a motorised propulsion device is a vehicle with one or more wheels, with a maximum design speed of 18 kilometres per hour. You indicated earlier that you wanted to increase that speed to 25 kilometres per hour in order to be more in line with European legislation in this area. In addition, there are mopeds. However, it has to be noted that in some cases the boundary between motorized propulsion and Class A mopeds, whether electric or not, is difficult to draw. The Road Code provides that a class A moped is each two- or three-wheeled vehicle equipped with an internal combustion engine or with an electric motor, excluding the motorised propulsion apparatus. In the Road Code, therefore, the only difference between motorised propulsion and class A mopeds seems to be that class A mopeds have two or three wheels, while propulsion equipment has one or more. You will therefore agree with me that it seems that Class A mopeds can also be included in the definition of propulsion equipment, provided that the maximum speed is limited to 25 kilometres per hour. Minister, I would have liked some clarification on this. Is it sufficiently clear for all types of aircraft whether they are covered by the definition of motorized propulsion device or class A moped? Where exactly is the difference? This is not entirely clear to me. Is it desirable to lay down further Belgian rules on technical requirements for motorised propulsion equipment? Why is that? Why is that? To what extent is the European standard EN 17128/2017 enforceable? I'd like to receive some clarification on this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u61	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, the distinction in the Road Code between motorised engines, on the one hand, and mopeds, on the other hand, is based on European Regulation No 168/2013, to which you yourself refer. Article 2.2 of the Regulation states that self-balancing vehicles as well as vehicles without seats do not fall within the scope of European type-approval and therefore do not have a conformity attestation. Thus, there is only propulsion equipment when it is a self-balancing vehicle, a one wheel Segway or a vehicle without seats, such as a skateboard or step. In addition, mopeds must also have a license plate. The distinction is therefore clear. As you yourself say, there is indeed a European standard which also seeks European harmonisation in terms of the safety and quality of these means of transport. It is therefore not desirable to draw up a separate Belgian regulation. In view of the European market, this would not prevent the acceptance of means of transport from abroad. EN standards are not legally enforceable, but in practice producers appear to apply the standards. Moreover, a means of transport that meets the EN standards will have a visible label with a reference to those standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening answer. The distinction is now clear. It is indeed appropriate not to draw up separate Belgian rules for the propulsion engines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u63	Mr President, since I have another obligation, I would like to put my remaining questions. 25917 and No 25917 25918 in written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u64	Mr.President, Minister, on February 8, 2017, I asked you about the dismantling of the junction between the internal road at the Saint-Gobain site and the Namur-Charleroi line through Auvelais (Sambreville), which may be detrimental to companies wishing to set up in this reassigned industrial site that can benefit from a strategic axis. You then told me that this withdrawal of connection ironed by lnfrabel could nevertheless be restored "on the basis of an objective demand and a study of potential in terms of rail traffic". Minister, have any requests for business establishment been made to your services to review the situation in an objective manner? If so, is a restoration of the iron connection possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u65	Mrs Caprasse, Infrabel informs me that she has been contacted by the two companies and that a meeting is planned soon with Somei SA who bought a hall on the site of Saint-Gobain and wishes to use the railway transport. The restoration of the connection will be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u66	Minister, thank you for that answer. We'll see if it takes time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u67	Mr Minister, to my recent written question on the size of the reduction cards, you replied that, due to an historic legacy, SNCB has not yet issued the reduction cards for persons with disabilities in the standard format, the format of a bank card. This shows little dynamism or customer-oriented thinking and shows that people are stuck in old habits. This is mainly based on an internal consideration rather than the comfort of travellers. It's exactly that mentality that the government needs to change. Every modern company, often with a much smaller scale than that of SNCB, produces customer cards in standard format. Even SNCB itself does so for the subscriptions, but not for the reduction cards. I do not think it is very likely that there is an obvious solution to producing the reduction cards in that standard format in the short term. De Lijn even goes further and already integrates the reduction card into the MOBIB card. In your answer to my written question, you asked that it be examined whether the reduction cards can be integrated into the MOBIB card. How concrete is this intention, Minister? Why can SNCB not transfer its discount cards to a standard format carrier, such as the customer cards of any modern company? What is your opinion on the fact that SNCB does not make its reduction cards in that format? When has the investigation started which was mentioned in your reply to my written question No. 2949? When can we expect the results of this? What are the remaining pain points? Finally, where is the difference in difficulty to transfer that reduction card to the MOBIB card, compared to the reduction card at De Lijn?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u68	SNCB informs me that the project for the digitisation of discount notes or discount cards is still being analysed. The study started at the end of February 2018. SNCB indicates that it experiences various problems in this context, such as the automation of the grant applications and the resulting technical implementation. Moreover, it seems that such an objective can only be achieved in consultation with the official organisations representing each relevant customer group, such as the High Council for Persons with Disabilities, and experts on disability for PBN products. The aim is harmonisation, which can easily and efficiently meet the specific needs. Since SNCB and De Lijn do not have the same sales system, the De Lijn solution cannot be taken over by SNCB. SNCB realises that the current size of the reduction cards is not a practical format to be kept in the portfolio. However, that format was set up before the introduction of the MOBIB card. SNCB informs that it will retain the model until it can release everything in digital version. The transition from all the old formats to the MOBIB card is part of a phased approach, whereby SNCB gives priority to tickets with the largest number of users. It should also be borne in mind that many products already exist on MOBIB and that all developments need to be rolled out in sync across the different sales channels of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u69	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I'll keep following up the file. I understand that our objectives are the same and that we need to move to modern formats as soon as possible. I therefore hope that you will do everything in your power to ensure that companies take them into operation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u70	Mr President, Minister, my question follows. I have already asked written questions about it. In your answer to my written question No. 2983 states that the award criteria for the European Disability Card and the increased concession card are not the same. However, my information shows that the award criteria for the "increased concession" card are wider than for the European Disability Card (EDC). All persons holding an EDC are therefore normally automatically eligible for the "increased allowance' card. In this respect, it would be of customer-friendliness to recognise that card in the new management contract as proof that its owner is entitled to the "increased concession' card. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, are there any persons in possession of an EDC who are not eligible for the tariff reduction "increased concession"? If so, which categories are they? Secondly, are you prepared to recognise the EDC in the new management contract with SNCB as proof of the tariff reduction "increased concession"?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u71	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, the criteria for granting the increased allowance for medical care are laid down not by SNCB but by the sickness funds. Financial criteria are mainly used. The European Disability Card, on the other hand, is a European card, which refers to the criterion of disability. For Belgium, the map was developed and implemented by the five Belgian institutions responsible for the policy on the integration of disabled persons. The European Disability Card cannot be considered as proof of compliance with the criteria for granting the increased concession. Both statutes do not cover the same load. Indeed, the criteria based on disability and the criteria based on the uncertainty of existence are not necessarily the same. Nor do the former criteria necessarily include the other criteria. Moreover, the European Disability Card is a European card, while the statute for increased compensation is a national matter. For example, foreign travellers who hold a European Disability Card and come to Belgium cannot, by definition, benefit from the increased concession. However, in order to know the exact differences between the award criteria of the two statutes, I would refer you to the institutions concerned, because the cards are not delivered by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and I will follow up on this matter. As you explain, there is a different kind of approach at the EDC opposite the "increased concession" card. In drawing up my question, I didn't think there was one. It therefore seemed logical to me that the cards should be integrated. Then the problem I raised in my previous question, namely the format of the "increased allowance" card, would have been solved, because it would be superfluous and could be replaced by the EDC. However, I understand now that it is apparently not that simple, given the award criteria. I'm sure I'll follow it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u73	Minister, I recently received the 31st newsletter of April 2018 at the station Gent-Sint-Pieters, with which SNCB and its partners communicate about the progress of the works at one of our most visited stations. I quote from this: "For commuters there will be a quieter period in the station." That's right, because the first part of the works is largely over. Now we are preparing for the next phase of the work for tracks 7 to 1. That seems rather euphemistic to me, because the reality is that the new contractor has yet to be found for the second part. The commuters want a quieter period, but then the works must be completely completed. At the moment the works do not progress, while the station is fully operational. According to recent media reports, the works would not be completed before 2026. Minister, what was the total price for the first part, the tracks 12 to 8? Has that been kept within the planned budget? Can you explain the delay at the start of the second part, tracks 7 to 1? To my questions on this matter in December, you replied that this had to do with the budget, among other things. In the meantime, do you have an overview of the progress and, above all, the end date of the works? What is the state of play with regard to re-procurement? It was decided to follow an open negotiated procedure, with prior publication at European level. Was that also the case for the first part? Could you give us a more detailed explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u74	Mr Minister, about a year ago, on 13 June 2017, I submitted a written question concerning the tendering of platforms 1 to 7 of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station, to which I received a reply on 12 July 2017. The answer was: "As SNCB has already communicated, the end date of the Gent-Sint-Pieters project is indeed not yet fixed. At present, the call for tenders is for the next stage. The result will also have an impact on the end date of the project." We're about a year later now. Recently it became known that the first call for tenders did not find anyone who met the budgetary requirements. In late 2017, SNCB launched a new tender. We heard that there would also be problems with this new tender and that the deadline for work at the station would be postponed again. Mr President, first of all, has the second invitation to tender already been closed? If yes, was a contractor selected who will vouch for the reconstruction of the second part of the station? When will the works on platforms 1 to 7 start? If no contractor has yet been found, can you explain the reasons for the failure of the tenders? Finally, what will be the expected end date for the Ghent-Sint-Pieters project? I hope that you will not confine yourself to a statement that the deadline will be postponed again, but that you will indicate an effective date. The neighbors realized it was going to be a long project. The original deadline was scheduled for 2024 and the works started in 2006. I think you owe it to them to set an end date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u75	SNCB informs me that negotiations are still under way on the final settlement for the first stage, which makes it not advisable to give a precise total price. SNCB was able to achieve the first phase within the budget it had set itself for this purpose. The tender prices for the second stage tender were 45% to 52% higher than the estimate based on the costs of the first stage. Since the estimate differs greatly from the tenders and the tenders exceed the financial capacity of the builders, the contracting authority considered that the public tender did not lead to an appropriate tender. For this reason, the ongoing procurement procedure has been terminated and re-procurement has been carried out in the form of a negotiated procedure with prior publication at European level. At the same time, optimisations and scope adjustments have been done to reduce cost. Negotiations on re-procurement are under way, because the first tenders are still too high. Further adjustments are being examined. The planning of the follow-up path remains provisional: rail works from December 2017 to August 2018, preparatory work phase 2 from November 2018 to September 2019 and completion of phase 2 from September 2019 to December 2026. The first phase concerned a public tender. This is the normal award procedure for infrastructure works for Infrabel, which acted as contracting authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u76	For a moment, Minister, I thought you were going to supplement your answer. With great respect, but in all honesty, your answer does not provide any clarity for commuters, nor for neighborhood residents. Personally, you have nothing to do with that, but you are politically responsible for SNCB. I do take this seriously, because this project is already slowing down for the umpteenth time. You cannot tell us today that the second phase can be tendered. You are putting the timing of December 2026 first, which in my view is still a very provisional timetable, because the second phase has yet to begin. I would therefore like to ask you to refer this matter again to the SNCB and the services working on these structures, in order to deal with this matter in a serious way. Some of my questions have not been answered. What is the budget for the first phase? You say that they have remained within the budget, but I would like to know what budget was allocated for that first phase. You can answer exactly how much was spent, can't you? My criticism remains. This lack of clarity is detrimental to commuters and to an even greater extent to local residents. It must be made clear very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u77	Minister, I would like to point out once again that the Ghent station is one of the largest stations in the country. It's not just about Flanders, it's about the whole country. On 1 is Brussels-Zuid and on 2 is Ghent. It is in second place when it comes to departing and departing passengers. It is therefore quite unheard of that these works are being postponed over and over again and, in my view, poorly followed. Otherwise we would not have to re-contract. I understand that there are problems with funding. Of course, everyone is in favour of getting the best contractor at the best price. I have the impression that I was ships at the time the works started and in the first few years everything went very smoothly that in recent years everything is being postponed over and over again and things are being followed very badly. I would therefore also like to call for a better follow-up. The end date is now 2026. I hope you will do everything you can to keep this deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u78	The Ghent-Saint-Pierre train station, although large, is not the second largest railway station in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u79	Question No 25887 by Mr Delannois was turned into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u80	Mr Minister, since Saturday 26 May the trains no longer run from Antwerp to the Dutch station Roosendaal. The passengers to Roosendaal must change in Essen. In other words, the railway line is cut into two parts. This will undoubtedly reduce the attractiveness of that train connection during the cut-off period and result in fewer passengers. The measure is defended on the basis of the fact that the approval for entry into service of 44 renovated MR 75 engines is delayed on Dutch territory. However, it does not specify how long that measure will last. Hence my questions, Minister. How are travellers, especially in Antwerp, informed about the existing connection towards Roosendaal? Why is no other approved train equipment used to maintain the direct connection? How long will the measure last? When will the direct link Antwerp-Roosendaal be restored? Why has the approval been delayed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs its passengers about the connection to Roosendaal via the usual information channels in the stations, in the train and online. SNCB does not have any other Homologised equipment that can be used. According to SNCB, the situation will last until the approval has been completed. The process of accreditation is indeed delayed. The competent Dutch and Belgian authorities are intensively consulting to find a solution. SNCB hopes that the accreditation process will be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u82	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u83	Minister, you have recently announced your willingness to install an anti-start system via an ethylotest in every bus and bus. This would concern both private and public transport. The aim is, of course, to increase the safety of travellers. Of course, the number of accidents related to the consumption of alcohol by a driver is, fortunately, very limited at home. For example, eight accidents on our roads have involved a driver who has been drunk in the last ten years. Nevertheless, as you have stated, it is enough once. Buses and coaches accommodate many passengers, and only one accident can cause many victims. Therefore, Minister, I can only salute and support your project. Although I am aware of the high cost to transportation companies, I am of the opinion that the lives of individuals are priceless. As far as private buses are concerned, this will not, a priori, be a problem. In terms of buses and school transportation, however, your regional counterparts are competent. You want, and this is reasonable, to convince them in order to make a comprehensive decision applicable to the whole sector. However, regional ministers appear to be against this measure. So my question is: within what time frame do you plan to put this item on the agenda? How do you plan to convince your counterparts? And, above all, in the event of a categorical refusal by the Regions, do you still think of going all the way to the end with regard to tourist coaches?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u84	Mr Flahaux, your question points out that the installation of an anti-start ethylotest as a preventive measure in buses and coaches would be a measure conducive to road safety. I wholeheartedly agree with you, which I have already supported on several occasions. However, as you also mentioned, the installation of these devices in school transport vehicles is a matter of regional competence. In this regard, your question points out that regional ministers appear to be against such a measure. On 2 May 2017, we received a parliamentary question from Member of Parliament Laurent Devin, developed in these terms: "The establishment of an anti-start ethylotest has already been studied by the Walloon Region and has been considered ineffective and disproportionate. Indeed, such a measure would cost millions of euros, while there are almost never any alcohol problems at the wheel of Belgian drivers." Given these elements and the ambiguity of the division of responsibilities between the federal and the Regions in the area of passenger transport, I have planned to discuss this issue with my regional counterparts shortly during the ECMM (Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility) which will be held before the end of the month. I would also point out that companies can already equip their vehicles with anti-start ethylotests on a preventive and voluntary basis. I strongly encourage them to do so. Indeed, contrary to some accepted ideas, the installation of anti-start ethylotests not only tends to reassure passengers, but is also a guarantee of confidence and quality for drivers and businesses. Those who have placed them make it a quality criterion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u85	Minister, I fully agree with your analysis. In the meantime, since the last response from the Walloon Region, there have been some changes. Who knows? Perhaps we can hope for an evolution of minds, even if we foresee a timing allowing it gradually. But let it be done anyway!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u86	Madam President, Minister, we have recently learned that SNCB has been informed of the potential presence of asbestos in paint on certain freight cars that it maintains for third parties. Analyses had confirmed that several vehicles maintained in his workshops were problematic. As a result, it appears that measures have been taken to protect staff. At the same time, samples were collected and analyzed to verify the presence of asbestos. This has been confirmed in several samples. Minister, how many cars are involved? Is only one company involved or is it wagons from different companies? What concrete measures have been taken to protect staff? Have any checks been carried out to ensure the health of the personnel who worked on these cars? If so, what were the results? What are the possible consequences of this case? Can SNCB be held accountable? Minister, I am somewhat surprised, though happy, that this issue is coming to our agenda. I called it "written question." She came to you in her oral form, but everything made flour at my mill!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u87	Mr. Flahaux, SNCB is permanently maintaining a fleet of 2,800 cars for Infrabel and its subcontractors. Based on analyses to date, it can be estimated that between 20% and 25% of cars in this fleet could be contaminated. SNCB occasionally intervenes on cars from other companies. In some cases, analyses have shown the presence of asbestos in the paint of these cars. An inventory request was sent to car holders likely to work with SNCB. The main customers of SNCB that are experiencing the impact are Infrabel and its subcontractors. Other customers and holders may also face the problem. Interventions with risk of exposure to asbestos were immediately prohibited. This covered sanding, grinding, welding and any form of cutting. An asbestos inventory was requested from each customer to clarify the presence or absence of asbestos in the paint of these cars. Samples are systematically collected from all cars that are likely to pose a risk of exposure to personnel. Information sessions were held for all staff at the sites concerned, with the presence of medical specialists and recognized organizations. Staff at risk of exposure to asbestos have been trained. All personnel at risk are medically monitored by the external health and prevention service. The legal service of SNCB is studying the case in detail to estimate this risk, but transparency is the rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u88	Minister, your answer is totally illuminating. I have nothing to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u89	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of February we gave the green light to the draft law to improve road safety in this Chamber. Among other things, it stipulates that those caught with at least 1.8 alcohol in the blood will now be required to have an alcohol lock. This new arrangement will enter into force on 1 July. This new legislation will significantly increase the number of alcohol locks imposed. A judge estimated that this would come out on an average of 20 alcohol locks a week in her court. In the last seven years only about 60 alcohol locks have been imposed throughout the country. Questions therefore arise as to how the measures are to be implemented on the ground. I therefore have the following questions for the Minister. First of all, how many people has the BIVV been accompanying today or how many are still under supervision? Of how many judicial convictions that have not yet been enforced by the prosecution, has the BIVV known? Secondly, since a copy of the notification of an alcohol sentence is also transferred to the municipality of registration and to the FPS Mobility, and in view of the small number, would you like to ask if you could split this figure by municipality? Thirdly, what plans does the Vias have as its only institution to expand the number of establishments and increase the number of staff who will have to provide guidance? Fourthly, Dräger is currently recognised as the only service centre for the installation. Have any other agreements been made with that company with a view to July 1st? Fifth, will there be an information campaign aimed at citizens, magistrates and lawyers? If so, in what sense and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Vias Institute, the former BIVV, has so far received 70 notifications from persons wishing to start or have completed a framework programme. The FPS Mobility has received sixty copies of notification of convictions from the Public Prosecutor's Office. This means that not all notifications get to the FPS Mobility. We do have a view of the court that delivered the conviction, but not of the defendant's place of residence. I have an annex for you, which divides the figures by court. Currently, Vias has a branch in each province. In the future this can be doubled per province, as soon as demand arises and provided the necessary recognition by the FPS Mobility. Thus, Vias is busy setting up a pool of psychologists. Dräger, as manufacturer and holder of the model approval of the Interlock unit, and Krautli, the approved service centre, are also fully preparing for the imminent change and the corresponding increase of alcohol locks from 1 July 2018. The availability of devices, services of the service centre and cooperation with the Vias shall be ensured or optimised. By mid 2018, around 25 sites of the service centre should be operational. The FPS Mobility and Transport will spread information to citizens through its social media channel in the second half of June. The FPS Mobility is also connected to the FPS Justice, so that the same message can be spread more widely on as many fronts as possible. Finally, I will send a press release together with the Vias to inform about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm probably still getting the attachment on paper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u92	Mr President, in a few days' time, SNCB will introduce a new departure procedure in order to avoid discussions on whether or not it is possible to board. The communication around the new departure procedure last week was somewhat strange. The focus was placed on the announcement that from now on the doors will close 30 seconds before the indicated departure time. This in itself is not a major change, as it is currently stipulated that the doors close 20 seconds before the indicated departure time. I have two questions here. Why was it chosen to increase the time between closing the doors and the theoretical departure time from 20 to 30 seconds? What did you think of the communication? In the press, for example, we were able to read titles like "Train doors" close 30 seconds earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u93	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, from Sunday 10 June onwards, trains will leave with all the doors closed. In the view of SNCB, the adapted departure procedure should increase both passenger safety and train escorts' safety. At present, the last door of the train only closes when the train is moving, which sometimes confuses the passengers and therefore also creates potentially dangerous situations. In 2017, the conflicts associated with it led to a significant number of cases of aggression. For the traveller it becomes clearer and safer: after the train supervisor has checked that everyone has left safely and that the departure has been given, he will also immediately close the last door. The risk that passengers will then be able to leave just when the train is moving is therefore excluded. Following the adaptation of the departure procedure, SNCB launched a poster campaign in which it reminded passengers that all doors closed 30 seconds before departure. Customers will also be informed via the broadcasting system at the stations and on the trains. The goal is to allow the trains to leave effectively at the scheduled departure time. Analysis shows that the current timing is insufficient to allow trains to leave promptly on time. Therefore, the exit procedure for closing the doors should be started 30 seconds before the departure time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u94	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Let us hope that this measure will benefit punctuality, as it is expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u95	Minister, this is not the first time you have had a question on this subject. I have already asked you about this and in February Mr Delannois questioned you about it. These are cross-border lines. I have given the example of the train to Lille, which is split in Kortrijk. In Kortrijk it is in Dutch called which wagons go to Lille and which to Poperinge. People who do not understand Dutch often miss the message and often miss the right train. Hence my concern. What are the possibilities for resolving this problem in practice, not only in the example I have given, but for all cross-border routes to a foreign-speaking country or a foreign-speaking part of the country? You replied in February that the legislation on the use of languages for announcements on the train states that only Dutch can be used in the Dutch language area. You yourself said that the train manager can also use a different language on his own initiative if he wants to be customer-friendly. I have a few specific questions about this. Firstly, is there really a list of cross-border lines where there are problems, as I have outlined them? If so, can you get it to me? Secondly, how important do you personally consider it that a traveler who does not speak Dutch, for example, is informed in French and/or English about the decoupling in Kortrijk or in other situations in English or German? Thirdly, do you think it would be useful to ask SNCB if, for example, train drivers could be sensitized to use other languages from the point of view of customer friendliness, if necessary? You don't think that's a good initiative? Fourthly, can a legal initiative be considered? If so, in what sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that language legislation for a transport company such as SNCB is sometimes an obstacle to the provision of services to its customers. Let me give you a few examples. When a train arrives from Liège in Leuven, SNCB can only communicate in Dutch. However, SNCB knows that it has mainly French-speaking customers on this train. When an incident occurs on a train from Liège in Countries, SNCB may only communicate with its customers in Dutch. When a train from Antwerp to Lille stops with many French-speaking customers on board in Kortrijk, SNCB can only inform its customers on that train in Kortrijk in Dutch. SNCB indicates that it follows the language legislation and the opinions of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring. An exception is possible only for the touristic sites and for the national airport. I think the train attendant knows best which customers he has on board. The train guide can therefore best assess the situation. If SNCB wishes to inform its customers on board if there is an incident or if it wishes to transmit information that concerns the safety of its customers, it will always have the opportunity to do so in the two main country languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You give examples where language legislation is often an obstacle to informing SNCB's customers correctly, often leading to unpleasant problems. I hope that we can find a solution so that, in the globalised world in which we live, all travellers can be informed in a way that is understandable to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u98	Mr President, Minister, like you, I read The Importance of Limburg, and since I have personal contacts there, I am aware of the centralisation and relocation of a number of operational services from Hasselt to Antwerp, which the SNCB is currently carrying out. These are the services of the Stations Executive Board, the permanentity and service tables of the Train Control Service and the traffic information officers who work today in Hasselt's signal house. In total, 85 jobs will disappear in Hasselt. Minister, what is the added value of this centralization? In itself, I am not opposed to centralisation, provided that it can actually be shown that it represents an improvement in several areas. This is an improvement in punctuality and communication. SNCB can then say that this operation provides a better service to customers. I have my doubts about this, but I am asking you the question because you may be able to give counter-arguments. Communications to staff include reference to the success of the centralisation of the permanent and service tables of the Train Guidance Service. In the field, however, this appears to be anything but a success. Was this even investigated? If that was not investigated, how is it that this is communicated? What is the impact of abolishing local support bodies on staff? Is the first-line reception guaranteed? I remember a number of years ago the very unfortunate accident in Pukkelpop, in which the newspapers mentioned the good service provided by SNCB, just because it was possible to act very adequately on the ground. During the discussions on centralization at Infrabel it was said that Hasselt was wanted to be retained because of its operational importance. The question is to what extent there is again a different rhythm between Infrabel and SNCB and its impact on staff and on services. A number of colleagues, like me, have asked questions about the renovation of a number of buildings in the past. In Hasselt, more than 1 million euros have been invested in the renovation of the office building in recent years. It is reported that additional buildings should be rented for centralisation in Antwerp, while buildings in Hasselt would be empty. Minister, to what extent is this decision based on the arguments cited punctuality, parallel decision-making at Infrabel and the efficient use of public funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u99	Mr President, Minister, I have a similar question concerning the transfer of 85 staff from Hasselt. The day before yesterday, it was in Limburg's interest that 85 jobs were lost at SNCB in Hasselt. The staff in question will be transferred to Antwerp. In the case of those involved, the transfer raises some concerns. After all, the connection between Hasselt and Antwerp is, to put it mildly, not very attractive. The displacement takes an hour and a half. In addition, some stakeholders need to work in shifts. Whoever has an early or late shift will also have to take the car. That is why we have the following specific questions. Are the figures quoted in the newspaper article correct? If so, how long will these jobs be transferred to Antwerp? The representative of ACOD Spoor claimed that 70 jobs disappeared two years ago because of the centralization at Infrabel. Is this statement true? Is the grade accurate? How many jobs have been lost in the last five years at SNCB and Infrabel in Limburg? How many in the other provinces? If I can, I'd like to get absolute figures and the share of jobs lost on the total number. As outlined above, this transfer raises some concerns due to the lack of train connection between Antwerp and Hasselt. Does SNCB intend to improve the supply of this connection in the short term? After all, this is almost impossible. Finally, are the railway companies considering transitional measures to facilitate the transition and to respond to the personal situation of the staff involved? If so, what are the measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB lets me know that the goal it keeps in mind is the continuous improvement of its services, with the customer always at the heart of it. SNCB has made a diagnosis of the current HR organisation. A number of pain points have emerged from this with regard to the way in which work is done. In the meantime, the modernisation of its staffing policy has been deployed. One of the first steps is that in 2018 1 800 employees will be able to work from home or from a satellite office once a week. For the province of Limburg, SNCB aims to improve and coordinate the use of its means of production, to improve the punctuality of its trains and to provide more coherent and quality information to its customers. In order to work on this, SNCB underlines the need for a certain centralisation. Besides centralising from the local to the regional district level, it is also decentralised from the national to the regional and local levels. SNCB confirms that these movements will have an impact on a maximum of 48 employees. At present it is not possible to give an exact number, as it will also offer a reorientation route to the employees who want to stay in Hasselt, which allows them to work in a different position, but within their region. SNCB informs me that the human aspect will not be forgotten and that appropriate accompanying measures will be provided for. In addition, SNCB is well aware of the demand for a direct train link between Antwerp and Hasselt. SNCB has clearly committed itself to reconsidering this question in the preparation of a subsequent transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am not sufficiently convinced of the extent to which this centralisation movement will lead to efficiency gains. I am not against centralisation, as I said in my introduction, but there must also be respect for a certain scale of centralization and decentralisation. I don't live in the province of Limburg myself. I cannot be accused of calimero behavior, but I cannot accept the removal of resources and know-how in one of our provincial capitals in order to be centralised. After all, I see that it is extremely important in the case of disasters that a provincial hub be maintained. That is why I have always insisted that, in the context of the reorganisation at Infrabel, there should be a presence in each province. This now also threatens to be lost by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u102	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to thank you for your reply. You are unpacking with the aim of achieving efficiency gains. I agree with Mr Geerts. There can be no one against that in itself. It will have to prove that they are being realised effectively. However, I assume that this realization must be possible. I'm not saying she'll be impossible by definition. However, I believe that it is important, within the context of this ambition to achieve more efficient services, punctuality and so on, that workers' well-being should be a permanent focus. I understand from you that this is taken into account. So it's not about 85 people, it's about 48 people. Just because a number of people can enter a reorientation path according to their personal wishes, these figures are not final today. That is a good thing. You also refer to other accompanying measures. You don't make them concrete. I hope, however, that I will follow up on this too. Minister, I am sure you will be aware of the lack of connection. There is a need for a direct train connection between Hasselt and Antwerp. You will also make the bridge to the next transport plan. I look forward to the invitation of SNCB over a certain period of time at the Province House in Hasselt. This time I will not allow myself to be thrown away with a misguided reason, as was the case last time, when I was playing the song about the faulty connection. I will quote at that time that Minister Bellot fully supports my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u103	Minister, a theme day on the Spartacus rapid tram project was recently organised in Hasselt. Representatives of De Lijn told us that the much discussed speed tram between Hasselt and Maastricht should finally leave from 2023. That statement is repeated in a recent newsletter which was distributed on that theme day. Despite the optimism of De Lijn, I think there are still some bottlenecks to be overcome before that tram can be put into service. I am thinking, first of all, of the abolition of consideration in Bilzen and Diepenbeek by rail network manager Infrabel. I have three specific questions, Minister. Will Infrabel in the short term, after all, the tram is supposed to be running in 2023, so that the necessary funds are available for the abolition of the plans in Bilzen and Diepenbeek? Will Infrabel in the short term provide the necessary resources for the undertunneling of railway line 34, as agreed in a 2012 agreement between De Lijn, Infrabel, the Flemish Region and the city of Bilzen, and as already approved by the city council of the city of Bilzen? At what time does Infrabel plan to carry out the necessary works?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u104	Dear colleague, in the current investment plan 2017-2020, no funds have been made available for the abolition of the consideration in Diepenbeek and Bilzen. Also in the multi-annual strategic investment plan, this project was not included among the Flemish priorities. Infrabel points out that there are currently no concrete plans to abolish the relevant plans or to proceed to the undertunnel of line 34. Planning cannot yet be envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u105	Minister, that is a very clear answer, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u106	Mr President, Mr Minister, the Flemish Minister for Mobility, Mr Weyts, announces on his website Flanders' first investment in railway infrastructure. This is the result of a cooperation agreement between the Flemish Government and the Federal Government. It considers that for the first time Flanders has a "true decision-making power on the railway" and that it "invests in the railway infrastructure itself". According to your colleague, the EUR 100 million put on the table by the Flemish government is not "a blank cheque" because the work of Infrabel and SNCB will be "supervised" by its administration. These are quite surprising statements which give the impression that Flanders would now have control over SNCB and Infrabel. One may even wonder whether such interference complies with the requirement of article 6, X, 14 of the Special Act on Institutional Reform of 8 August 1980. I'm not going to read it to you, but it still fits my question just now that Minister Weyts is convening Infrabel without you even knowing. Minister, what projects will Flanders co-financed? How much does this represent per year in comparison to federal staffing for these projects? Is this in accordance with article 6 of the Special Act? Do you intend to submit this cooperation agreement for the opinion of the Legislation Section of the Council of State? What exactly control will Flanders exercise over the work? What mechanisms are planned? What will De Werkvennootschap's effective role be and what is its legitimacy in controlling federal work? In the end, who decides this policy? For the list of works, you can send it to me, you don't have to read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u107	Dear colleague, I will give you a list of the titles of projects receiving additional funding from the Flemish Region. Depending on the nature of the project, it involves electrification, the laying of additional lanes, the removal of level crossings and, most importantly, studies for future projects. For these cases alone, the federal share amounts to EUR 221 million, which corresponds to an average annual federal share of 69%. This is in full conformity with the requirement of Article 6, X, 14 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980, since all the conditions laid down in this Article will be respected, including the principle of proportionality. In this connection, I would like to point out that the additional funding of 100 million for the Flemish Region and 32.48 million for the Walloon Region – let us not forget it! – are to be compared with federal financing, i.e. EUR 1 billion, plus the uncommitted balance of the Green Fund (EUR 73.4 million), plus the borrowings concluded by SNCB and Infrabel (EUR 255.4 million), and the means of the multiannual investment plan, i.e. about EUR 1.4 billion per year for both companies. Additional regional financing therefore accounts for a very small percentage of total rail investment and has not conditioned the implementation of these projects. The cooperation agreement is currently subject to the opinion of the Council of State, which will decide at a general meeting. The level of control that each Region will be able to exercise over its financial resources will be similar to that exercised by the Federal State over rail investments. The monitoring of the progress of projects receiving additional funding will be based on the classic reporting by SNCB and Infrabel to the Mobility and Transport FPS. The Regions concerned will therefore be invited to the quarterly follow-up meetings for these projects, which are subject to additional funding. In addition to the steering groups and possible working groups, consultation bodies will be set up, in particular to take decisions in the event of significant deviations from planning and expenditure. The Flemish Region delegates to De Werkvennootschap the task of monitoring Flemish priority projects, which involves its participation in all meetings of the various monitoring and consultation bodies. In the specific case of combi-mobility projects which correspond to the construction of many car and bicycle car parks, De Werkvennootschap will also be in charge of a more operational role in the realization of the works. The figures I have mentioned are amply indicative of where the decision-making centre for rail policy in Belgium is still, and we must not be mistaken. Of course, the sixth reform of the state voted by the CDH, the CD&V, Ecolo-Groen, the MR, the Open Vld, the PS and the sp.a opened, for the first time, the possibility for the Regions to contribute, within a very specific framework, to the financing of certain railway investments, which gives them a proportionate right of examination.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u108	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I can hear you well with regard to the proportionate right. When we read Mr. Weyts' statements, we didn't have the impression that it was very proportionate, but maybe we're used to the virile statements of the N-VA. I like to hear you say that the rules will be respected and that this will be validated by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic916x.u109	Today's final question will be discussed in a closed meeting at the Minister's request.
