ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u1	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we agreed in this committee, I am reporting to you again today on the state of affairs of the investigation of the facts carried out by the Gang of Nivelles. Our last meeting on this issue dates back to 31 October 2017. Over the last few days, I have had further discussions with the competent prosecutor-general and with federal prosecutors, who, as you know, conduct the investigation in the specific areas where their experience and expertise can be decisive. I will take this opportunity to reply to the oral questions put by Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Van Hecke during my introductory speech. With regard to the specific content of the file, I base myself on the information that the prosecution informed me of and gave permission to share with you. It therefore takes account of the secret of the investigation and prevents us from communicating matters which could harm the progress of the investigation. The new elements since 31 October 2017 are as follows. First, calls were made to the public to gather information on the facts under investigation. According to the email of 31 January 2018 of the coordinator of the investigation cell, the result of these steps is as follows: in total, about 800 information was collected via the various channels – the site, the single email address, the point of contact of the federal prosecutor's office, the letters of the prosecutors general, the minutes, the information to the police, etc. Four hundred and seven hundred of them are considered worthy of attention. The rest is nonsense. One hundred and twenty have already been evaluated. Forty were classified red. Eighty are to be checked. Twenty-seven have already been investigated, some requiring further investigation. Some 30 are still under verification. In three months, investigators were able to evaluate 120 out of 470 information. There are now 350, or twice as many. Investigators can rely on six months of work to assess what remains, regardless of what might still come in. A meeting with the victims took place on 11 December 2017, during which the update was made on the recent duties carried out in the framework of the investigation, and an explanation was given by the specialists on the negative reports of expertise relating to weapons and ammunition found in October 2017 in the Ronquières Canal. As regards victims more generally, I will propose to the government an amendment to the Act of 1 August 1985 concerning the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims. My idea is to recognize a post of damage that has not yet been taken into account. This concerns the situation in which the judicial investigation into the facts of which they were victims has been prolonged because of the lack of evidence. The bill states this in the following way: "the exceptional prejudice resulting from having remained for a long time in uncertainty about the identity and motives of the author or authors." Indeed, a very long uncertainty about the identity and motives of the author creates an exceptional injury to the victim, which is due to the fact that she is not able to mourn and continues to question the crime. Victims are required, long after the facts, to pursue steps in the investigation, and sometimes to expose costs that are completely out of the costs normally taken into account for a victim when the case has been closed. Currently, victims may receive financial assistance once a decision to dismiss or dismiss has been taken, or one year after a complaint or a civil action has been filed, and provided that the perpetrators have remained unknown. When the case is not closed and the investigation is prolonged for a long time, fuelling their uncertainty, victims are often forced to pursue a series of steps to follow up on judicial investigations, including the need for special therapy to help them overcome impossible mourning. This is likely to constitute exceptional harm which must be demonstrated by the victim and will be assessed by the Commission. Finally, and this is essential, I would like to talk to you about the new expansion of the research team and the new research plan. As far as the extension of the research team is concerned, you know that, following developments in recent months, the team has already been expanded to include investigators, including a criminal analyst and investigators of the P Committee, and that the federal prosecutor has added his expertise to that investigation. This intensification of police and judicial cooperation and the specialization of the investigation have led to new insights, and the preparation by the public prosecutor and the investigating judge of a new investigation plan. This research plan is now being tested against the current police capacity. It appears that the resources need to be increased in the short term in order to implement the plan effectively. In a first phase, a number of criminal analysts still need to be added. In a second phase, which means five to six months after the criminal analysts have done their analysis, there is the additional addition of a dozen investigators who, on the basis of the results of the analysts, can operationalise and investigate the concrete slopes and the proposed actions. So I expect that in the short term we will evolve from an 11 to about 30 people in the field of crime. I have already had discussions with the College of Attorneys General and with the top of the federal judicial police. This afternoon there will be a meeting between the investigating judge, the Attorney General of Liège and Bergen, the Federal Prosecutor, the Prosecutor of the King of Charleroi, the Director General of the Federal Judicial Police, the judicial director of Charleroi and the coordinator, to discuss the deployment and use of the more extensive capacity in the light of the new investigation plan. As a result, the survey is most likely to be federalised. It goes without saying that I will not make public the actions or the strategy of the judicial investigation. However, with the consent of the Public Prosecutor's Office, I can tell you that the criminal analysis will not be limited to the facts of the case but will also deal with the facts peripheral to those of the Walloon Brabant killers case. In the immediate future, the duties carried out in the course of the investigation include the following: an audit of all the exhibits that may relate to the investigation (Exhibits collected in other files are also taken into account because of their possible link to the present investigation – the aim being to avoid any material elements that exist from the investigation) and the further analysis of the information received and the verifications necessary to assess their relevance. Finally, I come to the oral questions by Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Van Hecke. In relation to the concrete elements of the dossier and the content and results of the investigations carried out in recent weeks and months, I must, of course, be careful, given the danger of collusion and the negative impact on progress. With regard to Mr Vanden Burre's question, after questioning the Attorney General, I can give you the following answers: As for the sure assertion that Bonkoffsky was part of the Brabant killers' gang, "the track of the former gendarmes is always explored". Regarding the 600 testimonies received since these new revelations, "a number of information is interesting and exploited. Many return to former gendarmes." With regard to the price of €1,450 for access to the file, the regulations do not currently provide for an exception. As I have already mentioned, I am drafting new provisions. With regard to the report of profiler Danièle Zucker, the Attorney General informed me that: "The conclusions given by Mrs Zucker were very general and did not make it possible to advance the investigation". As for the new testimonies about an alternative track related to banditry, notably that of Jean-Pierre Adam, "this track has given nothing". To Mr Van Hecke's question about a historical investigation into the gang of Nivelles, I refer to what I have tried to demonstrate before and just now. In Potpourri I, the limitation period for such acts was extended by ten years. The judicial investigation has accelerated in recent months, taking into account, among other things, certain revelations. Equally important, with the new research team, a new research plan and the deployment of new capacity, it is worth digging the case to the bone at a judicial level. That is my strong wish. In my view, therefore, a historical study is not yet under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. In addition to the question I tabled, I had a number of questions, to which you have already replied in part, including how far you stand with the composition of the team. Your statement that the number of investigators can now go up to 30 and that there is a need for reinforcement for profiling, for example, is remarkable. It is also remarkable that there will be a federalisation of the dossier. That means the federal prosecutor will pull the investigation into him. When you state that you will be sitting with Attorney General, the King's Attorney and the Federal Court this afternoon, there must be clarity as to who is in charge. You indicated that there will be a federalization of the file. I assume, then, that in the long run, the federal prosecutor will be in charge. What does that mean in terms of capacity? After all, the federal parquet is a relatively small parquet. Have you provided the necessary reinforcements there? Then I come to my specific questions about historical research. Don't get me wrong, Minister. I did not say that I was in favour of stopping the judicial investigation or waiting for the statute of limitations. The historians see two traces of thought. Either we wait for the statute of limitations, there is absolutely no problem, or this is their proposal. That is why I welcome your announcement that we are also looking at peripheral research. Should we indeed not look at evidence in other large files, which may show links? Why, while the judicial investigation is under way, could there be very specific historical investigations into phenomena of the 1980s that could be useful to understand? After all, it is not white or black. In the Lahaut case, historical investigations were carried out after the statute of limitations of the file. We have been able to work to the full on this. The Lumbumba case was investigated by a parliamentary committee of inquiry with experts. It's not one thing or another. They propose that, if necessary, a number of historical investigations be carried out, in the course of the judicial investigation, in order to support a number of research efforts on this basis. Seems to me that's an interesting slope. That is why I would have liked to know if you could agree to this piste, where you are not waiting at all for a statute of limitations. I welcome the state of play regarding the amendment of the 1985 law on victims. I hope that you will be able to explain some of my additional questions. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u4	Mr. Minister, you made a commitment to report regularly to Parliament on your various meetings with the victims' families and the College of Attorneys General. I wanted to thank you for meeting your commitments. When a positive initiative is taken, it must also be stressed. I hope that you will continue on this path, keeping us informed every time a new element appears in this file. I had the impression that the media breath had fallen somewhat back on this case, but I sincerely welcome the fact that the same is not true of the investigation. You have indeed strengthened human resources in this regard. It is important not to give false hopes to families. The most important thing for all Belgians is, of course, that all the light be shed on this matter which has traumatized our country. I would like to link my remarks to one of your recent releases on the "cold case" project, which aims to compensate victims of serious crimes and their relatives when investigations do not end after several years. Of course, this is an excellent proposal. As you have indicated, this assistance will be granted after a review of the file by the Commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence. That said, it would be necessary to commit budgets to that end and avoid the announcement effects, otherwise it could cause enormous problems. Since the beginning of this legislature, and even long before, the risk of legislation has been taken at all costs for a particular case. I would like to point out that this is the third legislative amendment: there was first of all the establishment of the committee. Then, as you said, the limitation periods were extended. Therefore, if exceptional means have been used to resolve a particular case, every effort must be made to reach a conclusion in this case. I have several questions to ask you about these "cold boxes". First of all, when will an unsolved case give rise to aid? How much will this help amount to? For what type of offence? What will the cost be? When do you plan to come to parliament with this project? Do you have a specific agenda? Could you give us a clear answer on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I may have a positive answer to the next very short question. What is the progress on the draft law on the apology candidates? We have been waiting for this for so long and often read in the newspapers that you are working on it. I seem to recall that you once said it would be a Christmas present for us. What is the exact timing of the draft law on the regrets?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u6	Minister, thank you for this information. You have committed yourself to regularly informing Parliament – and this is very well – in an exercise that is still difficult since you cannot undermine the secrecy of the investigation or the information that can be collected in the course of this investigation. It is good to do so in Parliament because we represent public opinion. In my view, it is much more useful and important to keep in constant contact with families. You had contact with them in the course of last year. I think they too deserve to be kept informed directly. I think that this is an option that should be given priority. They are the first victims, even though society is entitled to ask many questions about these particularly painful events. I am pleased with what you are announcing, particularly as regards possible compensation by taking into account the difficulty in which they find themselves, since, in the face of a failure to put a name on their suffering or to determine its origin, they may be able to benefit from the recognition of harm that will undoubtedly – and perhaps exclusively – translate into money. It's also a way to repair damage. I look forward to and very impatiently await the text that you have announced to us because I think it is just as important a step in the process of resolving this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in the autumn of 2017, a number of media revelations, including who the Giant would be, brought the file around the Gang of Nivelles back from the dust. As a result, the file got the attention it deserves again. Victims and public opinion hoped that it would finally mean a wake-up call for justice and politics to revive the file. Victims tell me and the mayor of Aalst who sits next to me that they're tired of such news and they're used to it. In October it was again mediatized. A new tip was launched, so to speak, and everything became very mediatic again. At the end of November-December we hear nothing of it again and nine months later we hear a new tip again. That's how it's been going on for years. Mr. Secretary, now you're not. It is our responsibility to use the momentum and the very important tip to finally lead the dossier to a solution and to the outcome. More than ever in the past few months, it feels like it's now or never. I am therefore pleased to hear from you today about the current state of affairs in the file and the investigation into the Gang of Nivelles. You were right to respect the secret of the investigation. However, you have also outlined a number of actions that you have taken. We are quite right to be satisfied with this. During our previous exchange of views at the end of October 2017, you made a number of promises. For example, you announced that five additional full-time members of the judicial police would be added to the investigation cell together with four investigators from the P Committee. You have just briefed us that research capacity has increased effectively. You've even spoken of a completely new research plan. I understand that the federal prosecutor has the responsibility and that everything is being transferred to the federal prosecutor's office. That is a good thing. That was also a question that our group asked at the time. I am quite right to hear Mr Van Hecke say that in the amalgamation of investigators and prosecutors with whom you have a meeting this afternoon, it is necessary for the federal court to have the starting and final responsibility. In my view, therefore, your answer to our question on the role of the federal prosecutor is very positive. Minister, as far as the victims are concerned, I think you agree with me that they need to be better assisted. In the era of the 1980s, victim support did not exist as it does now. There was certainly no legislation on assisting victims as is currently the case. What steps have you taken in concrete terms? After all, there was a proposal to align the victims of the Gang of Nivelles with the victims of terrorism so that they can enjoy a number of advantages even though that is a false concept here. However, they should be able to obtain a number of benefits such as free legal assistance. Is that equalization going to be effective? In fact, you have already launched another slope, namely the reform of the 1985 law on financial aid to victims. Is this reform going to be effective? How do you see the timing in this matter? How are we supposed to see that? Will there be a retroactive fee? How do you see that in concrete terms? Can you be any clearer about that, about the timing and the way in which you will implement that change of law? I would then like to add my voice to Mr Van Hecke's question. I would like to take a look at your attitude towards the involvement of a third, fully independent body to conduct an investigation, regardless of the judicial investigation, but more focused on the historical aspect parallel to the judicial investigation. That must be done without compromising the judicial investigation, and I believe that we agree on that. That's what happened in the investigation into the murder of Julien Lahaut in 1950. This case has also remained unresolved for years and many conspiracy theories have arisen around it. However, in 2011, more than 60 years later, a new investigation was conducted by the Senate. Parliament could therefore order a similar historical inquiry. To this end, a resolution was adopted unanimously to enable historical and scientific research to be carried out. That has been successful because it has finally been able to identify the perpetrators of that murder. Would it not be desirable, I would have liked to have heard your opinion on this in parallel with the judicial investigation and without the judicial investigation which hopefully is now speeding up and for which you have taken the right action, to have a historical, scientific investigation carried out on the file on the Gang of Nivelles? I agree with Mr Van Hecke who says that several professors are asking for it. In addition, they are prepared to provide their services for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u8	Minister, thank you for the information provided. It seems to me that your victim initiatives are a good thing. I would also point out that the incorporation of additional investigators is a necessity even if the case is dated. The seriousness of the facts justifies the investment of sufficient means to elucidate this case. During your presentation, you mentioned the risks of collusion. Could you provide us with some clarifications on this matter? You also mentioned the fact that the investigation was expanding around peripheral facts. I guess you don't want to talk about the investigation, but maybe facts in the context of the time. Even if I understand your concern not to disclose the entire investigation, can you tell us more? As for the investigation into the investigation, as in the Julien Lahaut case, it seems that it brings more elements than the facts themselves, elements from which it is possible to draw political and historical lessons. How do you envisage it? Some colleagues refer to the trail of historians. Is this a whole in your eyes? The elements concerning the gendarmerie track are relatively interesting and, in particular, the fact that the Bonkoffsky track is still current and that all the information requested and obtained refers to former gendarmes. When you're talking about a new investigation plan, is there a reorientation of the investigation to a particular lead? In this case, we can imagine that this is the lead of the former gendarmes. Could Committee P provide any information on the possible involvement of former gendarmes at the time? Finally, what about the possible bill on repentance? Would such a law be useful in the case in question? Are there any new elements that would demonstrate the usefulness of legislating on repentance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for this presentation and for following up as you did in October or last November. I think this is important, first of all for the families of the victims, of course. It is essential, as some colleagues have said, that you maintain an extremely regular contact with them on all these new elements which emerged last November and have, I imagine, given rise to a whole series of hopes. We know how much, for more than 30 years now, this file has bounced, with revelations in the press. For victims and their families, this must be extremely difficult to manage at all levels, including emotional ones. It is especially important for the latter to maintain this effort. This is very important and your willingness to step up assistance to victims and their families is most positive. You put several avenues forward in terms of financial support. At first, you talked about setting that support at the same level as that set for the victims of terrorist attacks. It will indeed be necessary to examine which avenues deserve to be favoured, but it is important to put as much in place as possible to help them. However, the fact is that today it is not yet optimal in relation to this type of "cold case" – as has already been mentioned. I would have liked to return in particular – and you answered in part – after asking you on 20 December about the victims' access to their files. You confirmed to me that an amount of 1,450 euros was being asked of the victims' families to have access to the file which is known to be very large. Therefore, it is necessary to digitize and the procedure is complicated. You also acknowledged on that occasion that it was complicated to ask them for such a sum and that you wanted to make progress on that. You repeated it today, but I wanted to know if there were any concrete leads in this area. Indeed, access to their files is one of the most urgent issues. So when you talk about moving forward on the subject, is it a matter for families to make access to their files free of charge or with drastically reduced costs, because, as it stands, it seems to me very problematic? There is an urgent need to resolve this problem. I come to another point on which I also asked you on 20 December 2017. As you pointed out, a whole series of tracks are being highlighted. I am not going into the details of the various testimonies you have received and of the leads that are being explored. This is the work of the investigators. That's normal. The question on which I want to bounce, which I asked you on 20 December 2017, concerns the report of the profiler, Danièle Zucker, which was submitted in 2010. He occupied the investigation cell for almost two and a half years. The profiler worked for more than two and a half years. The investigation cell was quite behind this project. Internationally well-known profilers – even Roy Hazelwood, the "pape of profiling" was quoted – supported this report and read a whole series of things, including the report that was submitted. I have absolutely no idea of the relevance of what is in this report. I don't know. Again, it's not my job. I don't know if it's more relevant than the leads that are being analyzed today. But the fundamental question I ask myself is why we are not going to the end of the work that was done at the time. This question remains, despite your answers. Minister, I know you're relaying the D.A.'s words. It is a question that I have about this in-depth work that has been done in the past. I cannot judge its relevance. I'm not an expert. I don't pronounce myself on that. I simply wonder why recommendations for investigative duties have not been made. Letters rogatory and interrogations were even conducted in Switzerland in the spring of 2009. I don't know what the relevance of what was done here is. But one thing is certain: it has mobilised a whole series of public investigative means. At the time, this was supported by the hierarchy involved in the investigation. I'm surprised we're saying today that it was too general. On 20 December, you told me that the report on the massacres of 1982-1983 was not "sufficiently serious, rigorous and precise". It is surprising that we spent so much time then following these paths, which, according to today's answers, were not precise. Honestly, I find that very surprising. What I find important here is to be able to say that the investigative capacity has been strengthened to bring it to thirty people. That's very positive. However, I find it a shame and adamant that we are not closing this trail. If we have to close it, let's shut it up, but let's go to the end of the process! A lot of energy has been spent and therefore a lot of public investment has been made in relation to this other track in connection with this profile report of expert Danièle Zucker. Once again, I would like to return to the subject. Probably I will come back to that again in the future because I think it is important, at some point, to have certainties in a whole series of things. Here, we stay with question marks. The last point I want to address, like some colleagues, is the way in which a commission will be set up that will see historians and scientists look at the issue, as my colleague, Stefaan Van Hecke, said, in parallel with the investigation work. The aim is not to do it instead or to stop the judicial trail. At the stage where we are, given the historical dimension, everything that has happened, the trials that have taken place, the tracks that have closed or opened and the questions that remain, it would be really very interesting to have such scientific assistance that has proven its effectiveness in other dossiers – we talked about Julien Lahaut or Lumumba. I think here, it could really be useful. This in-depth reflection seems to me to be very relevant to assist the investigation unit and to have a historical perspective which, in this particular case, is absolutely fundamental. I am also seeking your more detailed opinion on this lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u10	Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister for the state of play he has given to our committee. Mr Minister, in addition to the questions put by my fellow Members, I would like to ask a few questions. Firstly, you say that the investigation will most likely be federalised. I think that was obvious, given the involvement of several judicial districts and the fact that the investigation affects different districts. My only concern is once again not to cause disruption in the investigation. I assume you share that concern. A federalisation of research seems to me a logical step, but I assume that it can be ensured that people with a lot of experience, such as the public prosecutors who are in charge of the investigation today, can still remain involved at the time when it is decided to federalise the dossier, in such a way that the expertise and know-how some people have stated that they are "only" ten years in the process of carrying out that research. Secondly, precisely because of the fact that a trail could never be discovered that led to the unmasking of the perpetrators, I believe it is right to strengthen the team of the crime analyst who is active in that investigation today. I may have missed part of your speech, but I wonder if it is not normal for such serious facts to be investigated, which has been broken down, to be admitted, there is support from the general management and from the general support services. It is obvious that not only the criminal analysts, but also the behavioral scientists who draw up offender profiles, as well as the team that conducts the ViCLAS analysis and feeds the database, can appeal to the entire team of competent detectives who belong to the general support services. It seems to me normal that they, too, should be used as a result of the continuation of the investigation. Thirdly, you said that it is necessary to take an additional initiative to compensate victims of facts which are socially unacceptable and have suffered extremely serious damage by the Victims' Fund. You are now talking about the moment when the damage could be paid and about the extremely serious nature of the damage. Does this also mean that we are considering a solution for those who have already received the ceiling in the past? Last time, I think it was mentioned that a number of victims who had already received compensation or for whom the Victims' Fund had already intervened, and who, in view of the progress of the investigation and the evolution in the interventions of the Victims' Fund, could have recourse to intervention by the Victims' Fund a second time, even if they had already received the ceiling at the time they received their compensation. There was also a general recommendation from the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism that it is very important for victims to benefit from full legal aid. Did you think of that? Can you say anything more about that? Finally, what is the state of play in the examination of the P Committee? Last time you said it was a limited research assignment, only with regard to the findings of Ronquières, unless I misunderstood that. In view of the reports of the various parliamentary committees of inquiry and the fact that there has never been an internal investigation at the National Guard into the possible involvement of ex-rich guards, I wonder what is going on with the research mission of the P Committee. Is it a limited investigation mission or an external investigation into the functioning of the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u11	Mr President, I will not repeat what the other speakers have said. Minister, when you became Minister of Justice in 2014, you might not have thought that you would be faced with this dossier in this way. A number of colleagues have already dropped the word momentum. I do believe that the momentum has been restored thanks to a number of new elements that have suddenly emerged in this dossier and that you have been very sensible in dealing with matters since then. I would like to touch briefly on five points because I think they are the core elements of a dossier such as that of the Gang of Nivelles. Firstly, I understand that you have announced an extension of the possibility of compensation for the victims. I don't think anyone can stand that. On the contrary, I believe that this is due to them in these circumstances and in view of the difficulties involved in the investigation and, therefore, the social and social problems of the victims and their families. I think this is a good thing. Secondly, with regard to research, I hear that the number of researchers will be increased from 11 to 30. That is also a very good thing. That was the question of many parties in this House. I do not think anyone can object to that, although I hear from my colleague from Ecolo that questions are being asked about this. Let us make it very clear once again that the researchers who are currently doing research know very well what they are doing and are not stupid people. This shows the importance attached to the new elements and the importance of achieving possible definitive breakthroughs in that dossier, which we all want, of course. If this is possible through the involvement of the federal court, my group believes that this is a good thing. Collaboration with the federal prosecutor, possibly passing on certain elements and files, should be done in a smart way, without losing the expertise of the previous investigators. That seems obvious to me and does not even need to be emphasised again. Thirdly, the investigation into the investigation has just been cited. I'm not against that in itself. That is basically the political story: we need to investigate further what went wrong. For me, research is only useful if it helps the current research and otherwise we have to look at it later. The current investigation is now accelerating. We must make use of this and be very careful with all kinds of political questions about investigations that have been supported on other bases. If it can help with this investigation, it's good for me, because that's what it's about. We must use every means possible to get to grips with this problem, and you are doing so, among other things, with the increase in the number of researchers. It's for the best. We should not make a fetish of asking for an investigation if this cannot provide an additional element in resolving the dossier. Let us now focus on that at the moment. Finally, Mrs Lambrecht has made the move, you know that unfortunately I cannot let that move go without trying to get in touch with him about the story of the sorry candidates. That is a dossier which I myself have always put my finger on in Parliament. It is, of course, a very important dossier, and I know that it is also for you, Minister. Mrs Lambrecht asked for an update on that dossier. Our group will support you to do a great deal of work on this, Minister, because it is also evident in this type of case that it is an instrument for maintaining the right balance, which is always the challenge in such delicate dossiers to achieve a system of regret for certain people who can release valuable information that needs to be checked. Our group has always been a party asking for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u12	Mr Minister, Mr Smeyers and myself have listened very carefully to what you have said and we have listened even more carefully to what you have not said. First of all, on behalf of our group, we would like to express our gratitude at three levels. Firstly, we thank you for increasing the criminal capacity from 11 to 30 people. You are going to answer a question that we had already raised. Secondly, we also thank you for taking the investigation to the right place. You are also going to answer a question that we had already raised, namely to remove the investigation from Charleroi and to put it in the federal court. Thirdly, we would like to thank you for the decision to have peripheral files, as well. Of course, you do excel a little bit there. Like you, I have a sacral respect for the secret of the investigation. However, it would be a good thing if you were to inform Parliament about these peripheral dossiers. What you say, of course, is very vague. Thousands of police reports are being made. There are useful tips, but are we talking about narcotics, weapons, paedophilia, old political generations or pink ballets? I believe that it would be a good idea to at least indicate the direction in which we are looking. In the current state of affairs, and with respect for the secret of the investigation, can you say anything more about that? I shall now come to a second point. I believe that everyone in the committee meeting wants to know the truth. We must pay tribute to the fact that you have given a new dynamic to a static, almost fossilized investigation, which will make it a normal criminal investigation. However, we are vigilant and concerned. I will shortly be presenting a proposal to amend Article 80 of the Code of Justice, because we cannot imagine what will happen if the investigating judge becomes ill or dies in the file. Like my colleague Mr Van Cauter, I believe that we absolutely must pay attention to the continuity of research. I think it would be useful to set up a team of investigators in such a comprehensive dossier so that continuity and, above all, efficiency can be ensured and the momentum, as it is mentioned here, can be taken criminally with both hands. Finally, I think that the next question also lives in the Justice Committee. Do you have any idea when you can come back to our committee? It is good to keep pressure on the boiler, because that is more necessary than ever. I would like to ask you, Mr President, and I would also like to address to the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection whether it is possible to schedule a moment for further evaluation. In the meantime, we will also know more about the initiatives being taken to improve the position of the victims. Also and above all, we retain the kadans in the research, which is now good and positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be clear on the fact that cooperation between the Charleroi team, including the investigating judge, and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office's investigation team is more than excellent. Don't make me say that the investigation is no longer in Charleroi, that's not the case at all. This is not the context in which to place my words, cooperation works wonderfully well on the ground! For the rest, many of you have asked me about the history of the investigations. I have the pleasure of knowing a historian very well who has worked very hard on some of those investigations. I am sensitive to that question, because I am as interested in history as I am in law. However, I have already felt several times at the parquet magistrates that they would not be comfortable if at the moment a historical survey were to cross or supplement their research. Of course, I am extremely sensitive to the expertise of the historians. I am aware of what that expertise has gained in the cases of Lahaut and Lumumba. There she came, however, after the case could no longer be resolved legally. I have a courthouse and a judicial police for me who are determined to solve the case. We're still eight years away from the statute of limitations. That means if we want to bring the case to trial, we have three or four years left. We must therefore ensure that we deal with this period very economically and sparingly, which does not prevent me from informing again whether such a historical study can have any additional or subsidiary value at the moment in order to help the research forward. However, I do not have any indication of this until further notice. Mrs Lambrecht, what would I do to get you a Christmas present in good time? The preliminary draft on regrets was approved in the government during the week before Christmas. Of course, you weren't there; it's just a matter of time. I would also like to make my colleague Terwingen and my party happy by saying that today the Council of State will be delivering its monolingual opinion, I do not know whether it is Dutch or French. It was actually planned that I would receive it on 18 January and it was therefore postponed for a short period. Colleagues, criminal proceedings are a minefield. I do not have to explain or explain that in committee. So if we come up with a draft law on regrets, it is the result of a long preparation with the various stakeholders, not least the public prosecutor. I hope that will allow us to come to the committee before Easter. Mrs Özen, you will of course want to organise the work and determine the hearings, so that we may be able to approve the text before the summer recess. With regard to the victims and everything that has to do with them, first of all, I would like to stress that a meeting took place in my cabinet on 17 December 2017 with the necessary simultaneous translation and in the presence of those lawyers who wanted to be present. In the presence of their lawyers and in the absence of your servant – because of the principle of separation of powers – the investigating judge informed the victims in detail of the state of the investigation. According to those present, Ms. Michel, who is excellent, has really explained, to the extent possible, everything that was important to know at this time. Of course, such an approach is still unsatisfactory because there is the secret to be respected. Even if they can get a lot of information, victims are not necessarily informed about everything. I really believe that this oral access to the file was of high quality and it will obviously be repeated in 2018. As far as victim support is concerned, we must try to be clear. On the one hand, there is terrorism, which has been the subject of many recommendations from the parliamentary committee of inquiry. I will keep this parliamentary committee of inquiry and its chairman closely informed of the progress we are making in the area of victim aid in the context of terrorism. On the other hand, we do not have any conclusive evidence at the moment that there would be terrorism in the case of the Gang of Nivelles. We must therefore try to improve the victim status and compensation for the victims, as I announced on the previous occasion, in this case as well. I don't like to use the description cold case, because I can't define it properly, but it's about exceptional damage. Ladies Özen and Van Cauter, we sincerely want the exceptional damage that I have mentioned to you to be compensated, and in particular – because of this exceptional nature – that the costs of legal aid or legal aid be covered because of the extreme uncertainty as to the identity of the perpetrators and the conduct of the criminal investigation. In two weeks' time, we will be introducing the new victim compensation bill in intercabinet. The text has progressed well. I hope that we will still be able to deal with it in this committee before the big holidays – so we have a lot of work left – so that the victims can get help. I do not know whether Mr Vanden Burre is still here, but I think, among other things, that EUR 1 450 is needed for access to the file. We are working on it, with equal respect for costs. I am not trying to argue that the problem is not there, Mrs Özen, but the Victims' Compensation Fund is sufficiently funded to ensure that aid in terms of legal and legal costs is granted in the event of exceptional damage. Questions were also asked about peripheral aspects and collusion. You will allow me, Mr. Van Hees and Mr. D'Haese, to remain silent about this. In Dutch we say: speaking is silver, silence is gold. Isn't that right, Mrs. Van Cauter? That's a spell my grandfather taught me and I'll never forget, except once. The investigation into the investigation: this is an interesting question. Again, I fully agree with those who say that a possible investigation into the investigation – that would be the third – only makes sense if it would be of subsidiary importance to the case. I don't think we should get to it right now. We're taking the lead in the investigation in the best possible way. It goes without saying that historicality is one thing and that historical investigation is another. I've already talked about it. As far as Committee P is concerned, it is clear that the four people who are currently working on the file are precisely trying to see whether some investigators, including some gendarmes, would not have done things they should not have done. That's exactly where their specialty is. They are judicial police officers who, when by chance, find other elements, must communicate them to the regular judicial police. But their main duty remains to see whether some investigators have behaved well or misbehaved or would be involved in the crime of the Walloon Brabant Killings. With regard to the Zucker case, Mr Vanden Burre received an extensive reply on 20 December 2017 which was explained in detail. For the time being, the summary nature with which Attorney General De Valkeneer answers the question means that we have gone to the end of Mrs Zucker's analysis and we are not going back to it. I can only take note of it. For the rest, I refer to my parliamentary answer to Mr Vanden Burrre's oral question of 20 December 2017. Mrs Van Cauter, it is clear that all the special capacities, including those of the central services of the federal judicial police, can be addressed by the surveyors. Be assured that I will do everything in my power to provide all those people with the resources and opportunities for cooperation that make proper research necessary. Mr President, if I have not answered a few questions, colleagues will make that clear to me and I would like to return to the questions that still deserve clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u14	Are there any other questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u15	Mr President, Minister, if the dossier is federalised, does that mean that those who are in charge of the investigation today will be temporarily added to the federal court? How exactly does that work? I put this question rather out of concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u16	Just now Mr Van Hecke also asked a question about the federal courthouse, which I remember now. There are two federal prosecutors in charge of this investigation. You know that the federal court has the opportunity to appeal fully to the federal judicial police in Brussels, but also to the local authorities. That is what happens in all terrorist surveys, by the way. As far as that's concerned, there's no problem. It goes without saying that, with a view to bilingualism, a parquet magistraat of Charleroi will continue to work on the file in the event of full federalisation. They will work very integratedly, as they already do. It is a matter of cooperation between the federal prosecutor and the investigating judge of Charleroi, Mrs Michel. However, in the event that Mrs Michel is not available, precautions should be taken, if necessary. But this applies to all the investigating judges in the country. I am therefore not sure that an amendment to Article 80, I believe I have heard, is necessary. I can only point out that cooperation is taking place in an ideal way. Falling sick can happen to everyone. However, I cannot comment on the matter at this time. As the file is fully digitized, it is easily accessible to investigators who have not yet had access to it. In this investigation, some things worked well. It's not just hard to say. That's the opposite!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u17	I had another question about the federal prosecutor's office, but it was already partially answered. Will there also be a reinforcement of the federal courthouse, or will it not be necessary, since, I presume, further recourse can be made to the parish magistrates of Charleroi?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u18	We have, of course, extended the federal prosecutor's office quite drastically over the past year. The frame is currently, by its very nature, 32. When I got there, it was only 26, I think. It also goes without saying that there is a little less capacity from the federal prosecutor to terror today. I think the parquet's gonna pull it off with that bestaffin. There are currently two very specialised magistrates working on the file almost full-time in such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic811x.u19	Mr D'Haese, in order to answer your question, the committee will, as was the case here, in agreement with the cabinet, set up a future meeting and a future state of affairs on the matter.
