ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin the oral questions on this afternoon's agenda, I would like to make a brief update. We have had a lot of discussions with the Minister and her collaborators in developing our agenda. Finally, we split the list of energy issues. Some will be dealt with today. The others, relating to the Energy Pact and studies on the issue of nuclear exit, will be discussed next week, Wednesday morning, 14 March. Minister, it is planned to have a presentation of the studies in your presence. We will listen to your views on these studies and have an exchange with colleagues. The oral questions on these points (Energy Pact and studies) will obviously be attached to the debate. Each Member will also have the choice of turning their questions into written questions, so that we do not have twice the same debate. The second point I would like to address concerns the speaking time of the questions (question-response-replict). I have to tell you that the Speaker of the House called the chairpersons of the committees to "remount the straps", insisting that speaking times were sometimes abnormally long and certainly not in line with the Rules of the House. I'm not used to cutting the floor, I'm used to letting colleagues talk. You know that our debates are recorded. What I didn't know was that our speaking times were timed. When I saw the timing, I was able to realize that sometimes the ceilings in our committee, particularly in the field of energy, were kind of broken. I know that this is an area that everyone is passionate about, just as in other committees, there are also exciting topics. All this to tell you that we often exceed the statutory speaking time. I will therefore ask everyone to be self-disciplined and to ensure that speaking time is respected in the presentation of questions, in the formulation of answers, the minister – we must try to be more synthetic and quickly arrive at the heart of the subject – and in the reply. The practice is that if in a reply a new question was formulated because it had been forgotten or to obtain technical precision, there is no concern. But if the government replies after the parliamentarians, I am obliged to return the floor to Parliament. If this goes back and forth again, it lengthens the time. I therefore ask everyone to show as much self-discipline as possible. As for this afternoon, our work will last until 5 p.m. If everyone respects the rule of speaking time, we should manage to exhaust the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u2	Mr President, in this respect, I think we could save a lot of time if there is no reply to the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u3	The rule for the president is always that parliament has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u4	I would like to return to your first point, namely the issues that will be discussed next week. I have a question that explicitly concerns the Energy Pact; it is postponed until next week, no problem. But I also have a question about the CRM mechanism. To my knowledge, this will not be dealt with next week. I do not see why this issue is not on the agenda. I also had a question about the National Climate-Energy Plan, which – Minister will remember – was scheduled for the Public Health Committee last week and which was transferred to this Commission. I am now told that it will still have to be dealt with in the Public Health Committee. It's a ride I can't accept. I'm being cheated from one commission to the next. You remember, minister: you didn't have the answer last week. No problem, we agreed to hand it over this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u5	Mr. Nollet,...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u6	I'm not done, Mr. President. There is a problem with several questions. One of them relates to the approvals of ENGIE Electrabel. For this one, there was an administrative problem on the side of parliament. I therefore ask that it be placed on the agenda very quickly, as soon as next week, so that I can get an answer in this respect. Finally, a final item was included in the agenda in the overall package. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u7	The services of the Chamber direct questions in one commission or another. The President does not participate in this. If a mistake is made, there is no problem in correcting it. I would like to propose in concrete terms the following. The issues on the agenda today will be dealt with today. But I'll see you next week. If one or the other question has been forgotten during the cutting, they could be included on the agenda of 14 March at the end of the meeting. And if we have time, they'll be treated. However, we will have a presentation on the studies by their authors, the discussion. The meeting will be held in the morning until 2 p.m. or a little more. Mrs Demir is scheduled to arrive at 2.15 p.m., and she could possibly be expected to come a little later. This would allow us to put those issues on the agenda for next week. We will continue in noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u8	Mr President, on next week's agenda, will the questions that can be asked under the Energy Pact be listed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u9	Yes, yes. This week, it took a little time, but the secretary did it as quickly as possible. Mr Calvo, for your questions under point 2 (Nos 23117 and 23417), the services tell me that it is Mr Jambon's responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u10	Mr President, I would like to quote from the Minutes of the Committee on the Interior of 28 February, vorige week due. Jan Jambon's reply was as follows: "The estimate of the cost of the LTO action plan falls within the competence of Minister Marghem." That is the answer that Minister Jambon gave me last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u11	If, of course, the ministers refer the ball to each other,...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u12	I would like to answer you, but my answer really looks like what I have already answered several times,...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u13	The content of the answer is not prejudged, minister. Give an answer, we'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen, come to our agenda. Mrs Galant is not present to ask the first question (No 22588).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I hope that I will have a serious answer, because I am somewhat concerned about the introduction. I have asked this question about the cost of extending the lifespan of Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1, which are also relevant for estimating the contribution of repartition and the nuclear contribution, also to Minister Jambon. Just now I quoted Minister Jambon's answer to the question on security issues, but at cost he referred to you, Madam Minister, which only strengthens the relevance of my earlier question. At that time, during the parliamentary discussion, estimates of cost were shared with us. I remember those tables. Only that is an evolutionary fact, and in that sense I have the following questions for you. Can you provide me with the updated tables on the state of investment at the end of 2017 for Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1? Are there certain investment costs originally included in the tables but no longer included in the extension operations? If so, which one? Are there certain investment costs that were not originally planned, but have been included in the meantime? I hope you will be able to give me a clear answer so that I do not remain hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u15	Mr President, I will try to comply with your request and that of the President and will not reply to the reply of parliamentarians, unless it contains a supplementary question. It's up to you, Mr. President, to judge if it's possible. Mr Calvo, in my answer I considered your two questions to be identical. Your question refers to investment costs related to the so-called Objective 1 LTO and to Tihange 1, which are borne by the operator and electricity producer, the SA Electrabel. Firstly, I would like to point out that the operator has already notified its estimated investment costs, in particular in relation to the communication he has made under his obligations under Article 41 of the Euratom Treaty. The operator has proactively disclosed the information necessary for this communication on its website, both for Tihange 1 and for Objective 1 and Objective 2. With regard to your more specific question on Objective 1 and Objective 2, I would remind you that the Act of 31 January 2003, which lays down a mechanism of compensation for Objective 1 and Objective 2, provides for a lump sum which is not affected by the development of investment costs, whether they go up or down. The amount of the compensation remains fixed at EUR 20 million. Given the flat-rate nature, the law therefore does not provide for any other control or verification. We have long had time to discuss this subject in the context of parliamentary work (No 54K0967, 54K1511 and, to a lesser extent, 54K2070), to which I refer. As an additional reference, I would like to refer to the recent study by the party Ecolo, dated 6 March 2018, which shows that, according to them and, according to you, the extension costs would have been underestimated. The debates at that time indicated a reverse attitude. However, as I have already said, both now and in the past, fortunately this does not affect the amount of the compensation, which is certain. For more specific questions I can refer you to the owner, the private company Electrabel nv. For Tihange 1, Article 4/1 (3) of the Act of 31 January 2003 on the gradual exit from nuclear energy for industrial electricity production provides that "Without prejudice to the tasks entrusted to it by the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, the Commission is entrusted with a special task for the regulation of electricity and gas to verify the revenue and actual costs referred to in Paragraph 2. The owners of the Tihange 1 nuclear power plant shall provide the Commission with all the information necessary for this verification." Since this verification mission is entrusted to the CREG, it seems to me that you should submit your question directly to the CREG or to the owners, the private companies Electrabel nv and EDF Belgium nv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u16	Mr President, I note that I have had few answers. Minister Jambon sends me to Minister Marghem and Minister Marghem in turn refers me to the CREG or even to Electrabel. This method makes me frown the eyebrows. I'll direct a letter to the CREG. If I do not get an answer soon, I will address myself to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u17	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u18	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, your predecessor in charge of Energy had set up a working group composed of the Energy Administration, ONDRAF and Synatom to assess the risks that the current legal framework poses to the availability of provisions for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and for waste management. Indeed, in a report published in 2013, ONDRAF pointed out that Synatom could re-loan up to 75% of the nuclear supplies to Electrabel, whose financial liability is also limited to the contribution of its capital. Many questions therefore arise as to what would happen to these provisions in the event of financial difficulties or even the bankruptcy of Electrabel. The problem is all the more acute as the decommissioning of power plants is planned for a period of 20 to 30 years, while the management of nuclear waste is planned for a period of fifty to one hundred years. It is therefore impossible to know what will happen at this time. The question of the liability of ENGIE, the parent company of Electrabel, for these amounts must therefore arise. However, the fact that the company is a foreign company, listed on the stock exchange, implies a certain legal complexity. Four years after its establishment, the above-mentioned working group has still not produced anything and, according to the information published in the press, remains deaf to the insistent demands made by your firm. I do not want to comment on the problems you are encountering with your administration, but the seriousness of the situation and the seriousness of the problems that we might encounter in the future, namely that a company that has earned the profits of the nuclear rent can potentially be freed from any responsibility when it comes to going to the cash register, do they not order that you take the lead? Minister, can you give us a list of all the potential risks that have been identified with regard to the availability of nuclear supplies? Why don't you directly engage a legal consultant in this area who could take stock of the weaknesses of the current legal framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u19	Minister, you will recall my many questions about the many delays encountered by the legislative working group responsible for submitting proposals to the government to improve the legal framework surrounding the availability of nuclear supplies. During our exchange of 23 January, you indicated to me that a plenary meeting would take place at the end of January, with the aim of taking stock of the progress of the work and deciding on its continuation. Madam Minister, I therefore come back to you, on the one hand, to know in detail this state of affairs and, on the other hand, to know with precision the timetable for the continuation of the work which, it should be recalled, were initiated in 2014 but have still not produced results allowing the necessary strengthening of the legislative framework, aimed at preventing the creation of liabilities whose cost could not be passed on to the operator. I come to my other question. On page 12 of its annual report, the Commission on Nuclear Supplies announced its commitment to make proposals during 2017 for the government to improve the legal framework defined by the Act of 11 April 2003 in the interest of securing, in all circumstances, the provisions taking into account the exit of nuclear power. Minister, can you provide us with a copy of all of these proposals? What do you think of each of these proposals? When are you going to implement them in our legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already given you an update on the situation of the Legislative Working Group (LWG), which was communicated by my administration at the meeting on 23 January. I have already explained to you that DG Energy has informed me that because of the current workload of the members of the GWG and its own, which includes the finalization of the preparation of numerous dossiers whose preparation for the energy transition, the drafting of this report has been delayed. Like you, I have regretted that the work is not moving forward as quickly as initially requested and that the completion of this first report has been delayed. As a reminder, the government had mandated this working group in 2014 to examine the issues of legislation on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel that should be improved in the light of the work and experiences of recent years, in a much broader manner than the single framework for nuclear supplies. I had instructed my administration, at the end of November, to make every effort to speed up its work and to transmit to me as soon as possible an indicative schedule concerning the continuation of the work and the date of submission of the first report. I therefore turn now to the progress made by my administration on this subject. She informed me that the OWG resumed its work at the end of January with a plenary session which was intended to take stock of the various themes, decide on the continuation of its work and agree on the priority elements. All this taking into account the results of the IRRS task force between ONDRAF and AFCN and the work carried out by the Commission on Nuclear Supplies, in order to avoid redundant work. Among the themes selected, the issue of nuclear provisions and the voluntary or involuntary cessation of activities by small nuclear operators of classes 2 and 3, i.e. other than operators of nuclear power plants subject to the Act of 11 April 2003, will be addressed as a matter of priority. The administration announces that the interim report is expected to arrive in March. However, I should receive this first report so that I can confirm the priorities. As stated on 23 January, I would remind you, Mr de Lamotte, that the task of the working group is much broader, more structured and more cross-cutting than that which you put forward in your question, and I have informed you many times on this point. The issue of nuclear provisions for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and the management of fissile material is also closely monitored by the Commission on Nuclear Supplies. Indeed, every three years, this commission supervises the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies managed by the Synatom supply company and analyses the method of assessment and the level of provisioning required. The work should be prioritized to ensure that the same work is not carried out at both the NPC and the LWG level. Finally, in its 2016 Annual Report, the Commission on Nuclear Supplies made a number of findings regarding the current legal framework and informed me by mail. In order to ensure even better the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions to cover all the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing spent fuel, in 2017 and early 2018 the Commission of Nuclear Supplies drew up a proposal, as I had hoped, to amend the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for dismantling nuclear power plants and managing spent fissile material in such plants. This committee has recently transmitted its conclusions to me, which I have just begun to examine. After that, I will of course report back to the government which will decide on the direction to be taken by the analysis and content of the proposal made to me by the Nuclear Supplies Commission. This is likely to turn into a bill that I will have the opportunity to discuss with you when the government makes its review, makes a decision and sends the next bill to the Council of State. The draft will thus come back to the government for a possible second reading, and then be presented to your parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. We put these questions in a file that is a real soap opera! We are being announced of studies, achievements and decisions that will be made. I take note of the deadlines you have announced, with a report already for this month. Do you intend to forward this document to Parliament as soon as it is available in your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u22	Minister, admit with me that for work initiated in 2014, on issues as urgent and fundamental as the guarantee of provisions, even if the legal situation of operators is changing, it was not excluded to hope to receive an interim report in March 2017. We're forced to wait with you. I guess we'll get him as soon as he gets to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u23	There is no objection to this unless I am informed that such aspects are confidential. But we'll see at that time. These are sensitive materials. I don't know what I'm going to find in this report at all. Like you, I'm curious. So, in principle, I'll send you the report as soon as I receive it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u24	In 2016 and 2017, additional funding for MYRRHA was foreseen in the federal budget in 10 million euros per year. We have to wait and see how that project will continue to be rolled out in the future. However, we can expect a number of steps. By the end of 2017, the Supervisory Committee for MYRRHA would have submitted a number of results to the government. Last year, Secretary of State for Foreign Trade Pieter De Crem was also activated as a special envoy for that project. Soon, according to my information on 14 October 2018, there will also be a presentation of MYRRHA and the SCK at a conference in Munich. I have the following questions. What is the project status of MYRRHA? What is the new implementation plan? What are the main findings of the project evaluation? What visits has your colleague, Secretary of State De Crem made as part of that mission? What task has been correctly formulated? In the meantime, what investors have made concrete commitments to invest in MYRRHA? What are the actual amounts? Has the SCK made a new proposal on the financing of that project to the government? If so, what does this proposal entail? Can you provide an overview of all external consultancy assignments that have been concluded under MYRRHA? In the meantime, what proportion of the basic amount of the SCK goes to the MYRRHA project? What exactly are these funds spent on? How much additional funding is foreseen in the 2018 and 2019 budgets for the MYRRHA project? How do you account for that amount? My questions are inspired by my concern about the project and the concern that MYRRHA seems to be sourcing regular resources from the SCK. They are also based on the ambition to better assess the project and create transparency about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u25	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that issues are shared – in terms of jurisdiction – with other federal government ministers. In this case, this question on the MYRRHA project concerns the competences of Mr Peeters, Ms Demir and myself. In agreement with the chairman of the committee and aware that there are other questions on ONDRAF, for example, which I share with Mr Peeters, it is proposed that parliamentarians should address questions to other competent ministers for further information. The MYRRHA project is a multifunctional nuclear research infrastructure, which aims to continue research in an international context on innovative solutions for high-level radioactive waste, the qualification of new materials, the maintenance of the production of medical radioisotopes in our country and basic nuclear research. This is done in collaboration with Belgian, European and international universities and research centres. MYRRHA is the only major Belgian infrastructure on the ESFRI priority list since 2010. Every two years, all projects in that list shall be re-evaluated. MYRRHA has successfully passed that evaluation in 2017 and will remain on the priority list until 2020. I myself supported the evaluation mission through my presence. As I have said several times, many cooperation agreements have been signed with various research centres from various European and non-European research institutions since the start of this project in 1998. These cooperations represent a contribution in kind in the order of EUR 3 million. The European Commission's financial contributions from 1999 to 2013 represent EUR 14,31 million and a total of EUR 29,2 million in kind. In March 2015, the European MYRTE project in support of MYRRHA came with 11 million, of which 9 million contributions over four years from the European Commission under the European Research Programme Horizon 2020. The SCK-CEN has used its funding for around EUR 1 million per year between 1998 and 2004 and for an average of EUR 3 million per year since 2005 for the design and R&D programme of MYRRHA. As for your question about the consultancy contracts since 2010, the SCK-CEN informed me that it called on its own experts or experts who hired them from engineering agencies selected in compliance with the public procurement law. They are also supported by external consultancy, which has also been selected in compliance with public procurement law. No agreements have yet been signed for participation in the construction, but there are agreements for participation in the design and R&D programme to support the project, as I have just explained. The two ministers responsible for the SCK-CEN, Minister Peeters and myself, have therefore asked Secretary of State De Crem to actively look for international partners in the framework of his own missions. The SCK-CEN informed me that, following a working meeting at the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna in October, Mr De Crem had drawn up a work programme for the coming months. I do not usually comment on the content of scientific publications, but I will make an exception today, thanks, of course, to the experts who surround me. Since 2016, the SCK-CEN has been working on the implementation of the MYRRHA project in phases. The first phase will consist of the realization of the MYRRHA accelerator up to 100 megaelectronvolts. It will enable research and production of radioisotopes for nuclear medicine, fusion materials research and basic physics research. The second phase will extend the accelerator to 600 megaelectronvolts, and phase 3 will build the subcritical nuclear system for demonstration of the transmutation of spent fuels. The SCK-CEN provided the MAG (MYRRHA Ad hoc group), at the end of December 2017, with all the high-level deliverables it had requested at the end of 2015. The project monitoring group set up by the government requested the demonstration of the prototyping of all the components of phase 1 of the project, a business plan and a financial model of the MYRRHA project in its entirety, an update of the socio-economic impact assessment of the MYRRHA project, taking into account the new phase implementation, an opinion of the nuclear safety authority on the permissibility of a project like MYRRHA in our country, and finally an impact assessment of the P&T technology (partitioning and transmutation) on the management of our highly radioactive nuclear waste. At the MAG's request, SCK-CEN also prepared a more detailed business plan and financial model for Phase 1 of the project, and its authorization by the PSAN, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Additional work requested by the MAG in December 2017 was submitted in January 2018. The MAG met for the last time at the end of January 2018 and is in the process of finalizing its report to the government with a view to a next fiscal conclave 2018, scheduled for March. Preparation of the initial 2019 budget will begin in April. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u26	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, which shows that the roll-out of MYRRHA is far from easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u27	Mr President, Minister, the 2016 NIRAS annual report states that the financial balance must be maintained by NIRAS. The costs it incurs are borne by those for whom it is responsible. The annual report shows that NIRAS lost just over €1 million in 2016. This is because radioactive waste has so far been transferred at a price lower than the cumulative cost of storing conditioned waste. By the end of 2016, the accumulated loss for this waste amounted to as much as 7.3 million euros. The Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 determining the public authority's contracts and procedures for the long-term suspension of the Fund provides for a statement by producer of the waste from the past to be concluded in accordance with agreed modalities. The Royal Decree provides that the agreements must be amended by 31 December 2018. According to the profit and loss account report, the cumulative loss of the institution should only be temporary, as the contractual framework of the storage activities needs to be adjusted. I have the following questions. How are we going to try to achieve a financial balance? Is it still possible to achieve a financial balance in 2018? When is NIRAS going to raise its price for transferring waste so it doesn't lose? When will the agreements between NRAS and producers be adjusted? Have NIRAS provided you with a proposal for adaptation? If so, when did you receive this proposal and what does the final adjustment look like?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u28	Minister, my question is about updating the assumptions used to estimate the cost of managing radioactive waste B and C. What is currently the depth of the last public financial assessment for the construction of the underground site to accommodate waste B and C? Is it between 200 and 400 metres? Since the ONDRAF has just reopened all the options in terms of geological layers of waste reception and therefore a fortiori of depth, it is not appropriate that you request the ad hoc bodies (ONDRAF, CPN, Synatom, etc.) as soon as possible. to reassess the cost of the project and the necessary provisions to be made on the basis of this recalculation? What deadline do you set for them to do so? It is recalled that the NPC had given itself the right not to wait until the next three-year evaluation to do so. When are you going to formally apply for this re-evaluation? When will we receive a new assessment from each of these ad hoc bodies? Are discussions already under way between ONDRAF and producers? Where are we in these discussions? We will recall the AFCN letter sent in May 2016 to the CPN asking to adapt the baseline scenario for a conservative cost assessment. For AFCN, this adaptation should take into account at least the assessment of several host layers, several depths and a larger number of storage access routes, as well as a much larger footprint, with a larger number of galleries. Do you share the list of elements that must be taken into account in a rapid change in the reference budget scenario or do you feel that this list still needs to be supplemented by other elements? If so, which ones? In view of the national policy proposal submitted by ONDRAF, will you require that the budget evaluation of the reference scenario take into account: (a) host rocks other than low-induding clays, including shales? (b) multiple sites, since the "single site" dimension is no longer part of the national policy proposal? Do you confirm that the baseline scenario currently envisages a definitive closure of the storage site more or less 100 years after the start of its filling? Compared to the previous estimate of costs, does ONDRAF expect a significant increase in the total cost of geological storage? If so, what is the order of what factor to take into account all the developments that have taken place since then, and in particular the consideration of the safety aspects that impact the architecture, the question of depth and the question of the share of spent fuel that will be retired? In view of the fact that the proposal for a national policy no longer specifies the type of geological layer, will the ad hoc bodies now take account of a scenario at a depth of 600 metres or more? If so, how deep? If not, on what basis would a 600-metre scenario not be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u29	Mr President, NRAS will achieve a financial balance by transposing the guiding principles set out in the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 laying down the tasks and operating procedures of the public institution for the management of radioactive waste and fissile materials in the medium- and long-term funds in contracts with waste producers. Achieving a financial balance is possible in the context of the closure of the financial statements of NIRAS of 2019. The next revision of the contracts with the waste producers for the period 2019-2023 provides for an adjustment of the fees from 2019. The contracts between NIRAS and the waste producers will be updated by 31 December 2018 at the latest. NIRAS has not yet submitted a proposal for adaptation. As provided for in the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 determining the missions and laying down the procedures for the operation of the public body for the management of radioactive waste and fissile material, ONDRAF determines the reference scenario for the long-term management of radioactive waste which is applied in the context of the assessment of the costs of storage activities and waste storage activities, and which takes into account the reference programmes of the producers of nuclear waste. The organisation shall take into account all the expenditure necessary to carry out the operation in question on the basis of the cost price of the technical and other corresponding services. The calculation shall take into account the uncertainties resulting from the uncertainties associated with the execution of the work and the uniqueness of the project, excluding subsequent changes in the baseline scenarios and the underlying assumptions associated with them. On the basis of this reference scenario and taking into account the producer reference programmes as well as the waste already present on the organisation's site, the fees payable by the producers shall be apportioned on a uniform basis over all the waste produced and to be produced. It is an exercise of a financial and budgetary nature that does not in any way prejudge the solutions that will ultimately be implemented in Belgium. I insist on that point. The same Royal Decree lays down the time limits within which agreements between the organisation and producers must be reviewed. The new agreements must apply by 1 January 2019 at the latest. In this context, re-evaluations of geological storage costs are currently being carried out by the organization and are still to be submitted to the board of directors for approval. It is the agency's duty to propose cost estimates of geological storage that are fully justified and justified from the point of view of nuclear and conventional safety, but also scientifically, industrially, economically and societally justified. To do this, the organization must rely on detailed and validated technical and scientific knowledge. To date, the body's knowledge is concentrated on low-induration clays at a representative depth between 200 and 600 metres. For the calculation of these royalties, the organization is currently developing a reference scenario including a single storage facility at a depth between 200 and 600 metres in low-induding clays. It is this financial reference scenario that will need to be approved by the ONDRAF Board of Directors in order to assess the amounts of these fees from 2019 onwards. You will understand that it is not up to the government to analyse the details of technical proposals in such a specific and specialized field. That's why the ONDRAF was created. I will not hide from you that I look forward to the results of this re-evaluation and I have no doubt for a moment that the Commission on Nuclear Supplies is waiting for this re-evaluation with the same impatience, in preparation for its next three-year review of the provisions planned for 2019. Let us come, if you may, to your questions and remarks concerning – if it is set – the future national policy for the long-term management of our medium- and high-level radioactive waste and long-lived radioactive waste. I'm working with my colleague Kris Peeters. We are currently analyzing the organization's latest proposal. In its proposal, ONDRAF includes the establishment of a formal consultation with AFCN prior to the submission of an application for authorisation, without prejudice to the powers conferred on the Agency. Such a consultation, called in the pre-licencing nuclear jargon, would set out the technical elements of the future concept of geological storage solution that should be considered by the body from a nuclear safety point of view. The period of construction and operation of geological storage, regardless of the host rock, will cover decades or even a century. I've already told you in several of my past answers. As stipulated in Article 4 of the Law of 3 June 2014 transposing Directive 2011/70 Euratom, this national policy will have to include arrangements for reversibility, recovery and monitoring, for a period to be determined as an element of design and operation of each storage facility. The precision of these modalities will certainly be one of the next steps in setting our national policy. It is these modalities as well as the nuclear safety requirements that will determine the moment(s) when geological storage is closed. It is indeed important for us to take – and I note that you share this idea when reading your many questions – a responsible decision to prepare for the long-term management of medium- and high-level radioactive waste and long-lived radioactive waste, thus respecting our legal and moral obligation to ensure, in a graduated manner, a high level of safety in the long-term management of these materials, in order to avoid leaving undue burdens on future generations. It is in this direction that Minister Peeters and I are moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u30	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u31	Minister, I take note of the schedule. The new agreements must be completed by 1 January 2019. This means that this year there will be a re-evaluation of costs. On the other hand, I have a concern with the fact that if the national policy is adopted in the sense proposed by the ONDRAF – and I say "if" – the latter can no longer work with the only scenario of the little-indused clay. There is an inconsistency here, and I really invite you to make it known. In assessing the costs of the future storage project B and C, they cannot act as if there had been no evolution in their own proposal, since their earlier proposal took into account only the low-duration clay, at 200 and a few metres in depth. Here, everything is reopened, including the shale, including other geological layers. It is therefore not logical or consistent that ONDRAF is still working on this aspect alone. The second element is that the ONDRAF proposal no longer refers to a single site but to multiple sites. There is therefore a need for a coherent budgetary evaluation. In any case, one of the options evaluated must be that of these multiple sites. I would not understand that the ONDRAF, in its assessment of budget costs, remains with a single site project while it is proposing a multi-site scenario for the government today. Do you understand, minister, what I mean in this reasoning, in terms of consistency?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u32	Yes, I understand that, Mr.Nollet, but I am the Speaker's request, which relays a request from the Speaker of the House. So we are not going to start a debate on this issue. I hear your questions and I suggest that you ask Minister Kris Peeters because we have common competence in these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u33	It is with you that I am used to dealing with these issues because, indeed, it falls within your competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u34	I do not object to answering you, but you may see it before me to answer the question, since we have the same competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u35	My questions, I don't change them. I only react to your response, transmitted by ONDRAF. I point out inconsistencies and invite you to turn to ONDRAF and say: "In your numerical evaluation, be consistent!" One last element over the 600 meters. For the time being, cost estimates have always been limited to 200 metres. This is the evaluation of the project as it currently exists. Ask them to rate an option at 600 meters! If we're in the clay of Ypres and more in the clay of Boom, it's necessarily lower. They also need to assess – even if they have three budget evaluation options – the 600-metre option. I ask you to go back to ONDRAF and ask it to be consistent with the proposal made recently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Nollet. We take note of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u37	Minister, I come to my first question. We know that you have intervened with ONDRAF to remove any details on the geological layers concerned for the reception of radioactive waste B and C. The proposal adopted by the ONDRAF board of directors no longer refers to the little-indused clay. Do you confirm that the ONDRAF proposal also does not contain any clarification, however in their previous proposal, as to the number of sites selected, whereas the previous proposal only referred to a single site? Was this change made at your request? Otherwise, who is the initiator and on what motivation? This valuable information should allow me to understand the evolution of the file. Let me address my second question. ONDRAF has just taken a position in favour of geological storage as an integral part of the national policy for the management of radioactive waste B and C. However, it is known that the International Commission for Radiological Protection imposes a procedure of prior justification (cf. ICRP, Publication 122, main points, page 11). It is a precise legal formulation. Has the principle of the definitive geological storage of waste already been justified in the legal sense of the term – for example, when the plants are authorised – or does it still have to be subject to a procedure for the study of justification before the government adopts the national policy? So I come to my third question. During our exchange on 18 January, you stated that ONDRAF was finalizing the latest modalities and would quickly table a proposal for a national nuclear waste policy. What is the status of this proposal? What does it involve? When will you proceed with the environmental impact assessment? Over what period will the broad public consultation, which will accompany it, take into account the fundamental changes in the file, the time since 2010 and the fact that it is a first version of what a national policy could be, a document to be clearly distinguished from a waste plan? Has the Federal Nuclear Control Agency ever been asked to deliver an opinion? Has she already given her opinion? If so, what does he say? If not, when is he expected? What is your schedule of next steps in this file? Finally, I would like to validate with you the fact that you are going to change the legal framework so that a decision of such importance is taken by a law and not by a simple decree. Let me now turn to my fourth question. The ONDRAF Board of Directors has decided to propose passive geological storage as a national policy for the long-term management of high-activity and/or long-lived waste. However, we know that this kind of decision is engaging for hundreds of millions of years. In a public debate in Liège, you have shown a certain openness so that the final decision on this matter can be taken by the parliament, by a law (and not, as is currently foreseen, by a simple royal decree). You were also open to reflection so that this decision would be taken only after an environmental impact assessment and public consultation. As the ONDRAF communiqué states, a complex project such as that of national politics cannot succeed without a societal foundation. I would like to know, in the context of this question dealing exclusively with the method of work, what is your reflection on these two elements. Finally, fifth question, we know that the vast majority of the citizens who speak on the subject are demanding that the waste B and C that will be buried be recoverable "at any time"; I stress these words. Does the decision proposed by the ONDRAF Board of Directors comply with this wish or does it allow for an option that would consider time-limited recovery? After the advice of the AFCN, the file will come into your hands. Are you going, at your level, to respect the wishes of citizens for recovery at any time, or are you going to leave the door open to a limited recoverability in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u38	Mr Nollet, your questions were very concise; thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u39	Mr President, I will be just as concise. Minister, on February 9, the ONDRAF Board of Directors decided to propose geological storage as a national policy for the long-term management of high-level and/or long-lived waste. It is now up to the federal government to decide, after advice from the AFCN, on this ONDRAF proposal. Minister, does the ONDRAF proposal ensure that the principles of reversibility and waste recovery are respected? How will the government ensure that the ONDRAF proposal meets all safety and security criteria? Will the government stimulate societal debate on this major issue? What are the next steps and within what time frame will the government decide on this ONDRAF proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u40	Mr President, earlier on, I was trying to show you how many pages my answer to all the questions asked counts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u41	Let us state here that there are six questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u42	Mr President, this is not a question of authorisation. I am simply saying that the answer is quite long and that it will be impossible to synthesize.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u43	I would point out that, earlier, I was reasoning on one question. In this case, there are actually six questions. The speaking time is obviously proportional.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u44	Mr President, I will try to answer these six joint questions concerning the long-term management of medium- and high-level radioactive waste and long-lived radioactive waste. These issues are sometimes global, while others are sometimes targeted. As already stated in our letter of 7 November 2016 to ONDRAF, Minister Kris Peeters and I are of the opinion that the national solution for the long-term management of medium- and high-level radioactive waste and long-lived radioactive waste is geological storage. We followed as follows: - what Europe requires in its Directive 2011/70 Euratom; - what other countries such as France, Finland and the USA are doing; - as indicated by the AFCN, our security agency and finally - what the citizen said in the consultation phases carried out in 2010; in particular at the citizen's conference organised by the King Baudouin Foundation. It is sometimes good to recall what AFCN, our safety authority, said at the time in a notice it published on the ONDRAF documents under the draft waste plan and environmental impact assessment of 2 February 2011 - I quote -: "a surface storage of high activity and/or long-lived waste (category B and C wastes), whether pending the development of new techniques or for centuries, cannot be justified for the following reasons: (...) In addition, long-term storage (several centuries) is not considered at the international level as a reference solution for the long-term management of this type of waste. [[...]] Geological disposal of Category B and C waste on Belgian territory now seems to be the safest solution to ensure safety in the medium and long term and to limit the burden to future generations by virtue of the passive nature of the security of the deposit. [[...]] With regard to the geological repository, it is not currently possible to make a decision on the host formation. Indeed, even if no argument calls into question the containment capacity of Boom clay, there are no similar technical and scientific arguments for other potential host formations." In an AFCN opinion on the national programme of 10 April 2015, point 2.2 "Categories B and C – Spent Fuels" states that "AFCN is in favour of geological storage including deep-sea storage and drilling options but is of the opinion that it is not currently possible to make a decision regarding the selection of a category of host, low-indused clay formation." With regard to national policy-making, the AFCN wishes to implement the following recommendations: - on the basis of the documents currently available, national policies on the long-term management solution for waste B and C should be limited to a geological storage decision including deep-sea storage and drilling options. According to AFCN, it is indeed premature to advocate storage in a small clay. [[...]] - point 3 of the recommendations: the steps in the decision-making process for geological storage must contain at least the following decisions: (a) selection of one or more host formations; (b) selection of the site or sites; (c) decision associated with the authorisation process. Decisions on these steps must be supported by a security file whose structure has been previously agreed with the AFCN. In line with international recommendations, this safety file should include, among other things, a safety assessment showing the appropriateness of the host formation and its geological environment, as well as the process of optimising the protection that led to the selection of the host formation and/or site. The societal and economic aspects are part of the existing circumstances of the process of optimising protection and involve several stakeholders, such as civil society, local populations and industries. As long as the host training meets the safety requirements, these aspects can influence the final choice of the host training and the site." The modalities for the implementation and development of this solution must nevertheless be further developed in a phased decision-making process, as I have already said on several occasions, which will have to take into account safety, environmental, technical, financial, ethical and societal factors. In this way, this process will gradually and gradually eventually lead to the selection of the appropriate site to accommodate a storage facility. Kris Peeters and I asked the ONDRAF, in the same letter, to send us a proposal for a national policy as soon as possible. We confirmed this request in a letter addressed to the ONDRAF Board of Directors on February 5. As you know, the ONDRAF Board of Directors decided on 9 February to propose geological storage as a national policy for the long-term management of high-level and/or long-lived waste. Since this is a very important decision, which will have an impact on both the present and future generations, it seems to us desirable that the latter should not be taken in haste. The decision is not binding either for hundreds of millions of years, as you say and as we have already had the opportunity to discuss. However, I wonder if your figure on this subject has not yet increased since one of your previous questions. As I have already indicated to you, the principle is to have a definitive solution with passive mechanisms, which avoids that, in three generations, those who will follow us will still have to take over this waste. I turn to the later stages of this issue, which we discussed with Minister Peeters. As you know, the last few weeks have been very busy. Unfortunately, this is not the only file we have to deal with. We have identified some questions of form or typo that we will forward to ONDRAF (the use of languages in the appendices, etc.).). We will ask him to prepare and propose a draft royal decree. On this basis, the opinion of AFCN will be sought. As a follow-up to the proceedings, the details provided by the so-called "ONDRAF" Act of 8 August 1980 should be read. It states that "by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from ONDRAF and after consulting the competent regulatory authority, the King shall establish and maintain national policies for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel". I continue my quote: "The national policies referred to in the first subparagraph shall be considered as plans and programmes within the meaning of the Act of 13 February 2006 on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment and on public participation in the preparation of plans and programmes relating to the environment." The so-called "SEA" Act of 13 February 2006 states that the author of the plan or programme is the authority. At the federal level, I quote: "on a proposal from ONDRAF, responsible for drawing up the plan and programme adopted by the King". The latter "institutes and maintains", etc. The legal and regulatory provisions in force should therefore be respected. The SEA Act of 2006 provides, where appropriate, for the modalities for public participation. After this state of affairs and subsequent steps, I will try to answer your more specific questions. Mrs Lalieux, with regard to the safety and security criteria, I repeat that the proposal will be the subject of an opinion from the AFCN, our Federal Nuclear Control Agency. Following the establishment of this first stage, it will be appropriate for ONDRAF to engage in a pre-licensing process with AFCN. It is also clear that ONDRAF will continue its work and prepare its safety assessments until the final stage of national policy is established. Finally, after the final stage of national policy has been adopted, the authorization process will begin. It will take place on the basis of a formal request, but we are not there yet. With regard to the principle of justification, referred to by Mr Nollet in his publication 122, to which you refer, the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP / ICRP) explicitly states, on page 38, that the management of radioactive waste in general and storage in particular cannot be regarded as practices requiring "justification" per se. ICRP has reiterated on several occasions that these practices are an integral part of the practices that have generated, generated and will generate nuclear waste. It is these practices that must be justified within the meaning of the ICRP, not the long-term management solution for their waste. I quote ICRP Publication No. 122, the Radiological Protection in Geological Availability of Long-lived Solid Radioactive Waste. On page 38, you will find all the development in English. I'm thanking you because it would be very sporty if I read it, and it wouldn't save us time. You can read it yourself because you read English better than I say. Even if waste management has not been considered in the justification of a practice, the Commission recommends optimising the protection of people and the environment regardless of the justification for this practice. This will, of course, be the subject of the project licensing procedure with the AFCN, when an application for installation authorization is filed. In all cases, it will comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements as well as the requirements of the AFCN. As regards the issue of the site, the proposal submitted by ONDRAF concerns the first part, the first stage of the national policy on the long-term management of high-activity and/or long-lived waste, i.e. the principle of the geological storage system on Belgian territory. The selection of a host rock and the selection of one or more sites are not on the agenda but are later steps in a concerted and shared societal decision-making process. Minister Peeters and I did indeed ask ONDRAF, in our letter of 7 November 2016, to send us a new proposal for a national policy limited to the principles of geological storage, without indication of the host rock at this stage and, a fortiori, without indication of sites. We thus follow the various opinions already issued by AFCN, notably in 2010 and 2015, as I recalled. This new proposal was also to be made on a step-by-step basis, thereby increasing its societal base. Finally, with regard to the issue of recovery, citizens have, on several occasions, in the legal consultation carried out on the Waste Plan and in the citizens' conference held in the period 2009-2011, insisted on the willingness to have mechanisms for recovery. When the European Directive 2011/70 Euratom of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste was transposed into Belgian law by the Law of 3 June 2014, the Belgian legislator provided that future national policies on the long-term management of radioactive waste and spent fuel considered as waste should contain arrangements for reversibility, recovery and monitoring for a period to be determined as an element of design and operation of each storage facility. Such arrangements shall be established taking into account the need to ensure the safety of the storage facility. The same transposition into Belgian law also introduced a specificity that the European Directive did not provide for: the concept of reopening after the site was finally closed. In its recent proposal for a national policy, ONDRAF only asks for the first part of the national policy for the long-term management of high radioactivity and/or long-lived waste, i.e. the principle of the geological storage system on Belgian territory of our most dangerous radioactive waste. As provided for in the law, the ONDRAF will have to propose, at a later stage, in consultation with all the actors concerned, modalities of reversibility, recoverability and monitoring which will have to be fixed in turn in another part of the same national policy by a future government. The ONDRAF told us, in transmitting its proposal, that: 1. geological storage shall be carried out without the intention of further removal of the waste but without prejudice to the possibility of, where appropriate, recovery of a waste during a given period; 2. the proposal provides that the modalities of reversibility, recovery and monitoring for a period to be determined as elements for the design and operation of a storage facility will be established in consultation with stakeholders at a later stage of national policy. This step is clearly planned as part of the decision-making process to be established. Thank you for your attention to this long answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. First, I have heard that deep drilling is currently being retained as an option at the request of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. If this is the case, a quantified assessment is essential. I am referring to my other question at the beginning of the agenda, since we must also be able to estimate the cost of this option. Secondly, I understand that it was at your request that ONDRAF removed not the location of the site, but the principle of the unique site.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u47	You're right. It can be...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u49	No, no, no, no! I was talking about the government! And you answer me on behalf of the government. So I take note that it was the government that asked – but we can record what the minister just said, because I agree with her and I want to make sure that there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u50	Yes! But the microphone wasn't plugged in!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u51	I want to make sure that when you say "you", you hear "the government."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u52	That's right! It was on behalf of the government that I interviewed you and I note that it was the government that asked not to specify that it was a single site. I conclude from this, in my reply, that this must also have an impact on the quantitative assessment. Thirdly, you're talking about a February 5 letter. You remember, minister, that we had received the previous letters. I'd like you to confirm, mic on, that you're going to send us a copy of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u53	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u54	Thank you. This seems to me to be consistent with what was done earlier. I note that you are asking ONDRAF to propose a draft order. It makes quite sense. In reply to your answer to my second question, I note that you unfortunately remain stunned that it is the King who makes the decision. By the way, I must say that you're right, I misread: it's hundreds of thousands of years. I therefore consider that this requires a law and not just an order. We'll have an opportunity to get back to it. On my third question, I am concerned about the recovery period. On two occasions, you say "recoverability for a given period". However, citizens have asked for recovery at all times. There is a contradiction between what you guarantee and what has been requested in the previous stages of consultation. Which brings me to my question about the consultations. You say it is up to the author of the plan to determine in fine what is the situation. But since it is the government that approves the plan, the author is him. ONDRAF consults. A notice may be given. That's a proposal. The evidence is that you have already had round trips to change the proposal. It is therefore you who will make a decision about public consultation and impact assessment. ONDRAF does not take a decision-making point of view. There has been a lot of legal debate about the exact scope of the 2011 Waste Plan decision, which was finalized before reaching the final stage, which was to consist of a government decision. It's only now that you're seized. You're the author. I draw your attention to this, because this impact assessment and public consultation are extremely important issues. I will come back to you with specific requests in this area. On the other hand, on the question of justification, I am not your reasoning. I know page 38 of the document to which you refer, I have it in front of me. I was referring to what was provided for on page 11 of the same document. On page 11, there is a request for justification even before the government can adopt the national policy. I therefore invite you to take the time, together with your lawyers, to analyse this point in order not to commit any legal fault that would open the way to multiple recourses, whereas page 11 requires a justification prior to your decision by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u55	I thank the Minister for her long and precise response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u56	Mr. Chair, Minister, we know that the NPC's mission is and will be essential in the months and years to come. The Commission has had the opportunity to say how much it considers it necessary to work on its financing, both in terms of sufficiency, source and sustainability. Could you describe the current situation on these three dimensions - sufficiency, source and sustainability? What is your analysis of the situation? What are you proposing in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u57	Madam Minister, we learn from the 2016 annual report of the Commission for Nuclear Facilities that the Commission had a busy agenda in 2016. It gave its opinion on the revision of the loan agreements between Electrabel and Synatom and evaluated the method for the decommissioning and management of radiation fuels. This is what we read in the report, and I quote: 'However, the absence of a number of policy decisions makes it difficult to evaluate and assess the provisions correctly. (...) The Commission has also been at the limits of the Act of 11 April 2003 and has decided to put forward a number of proposals for improvement in 2017. I quote further: "The Royal Decree implementing Article 10 of the Law of 11 April 2003 was not adopted in 2016, so the Commission still does not have its own means of operation. As a result, the invoices for the opinions requested cannot be paid and the Commission is limited in its operational capacity. In short, there is a certain malaise, although, as Mr Nollet rightly pointed out, the Commission must be able to function perfectly, since it has been entrusted with an important task and certainly awaits it. What details have you provided on the findings contained in the 2016 annual report? What proposals were made for improvement? What invoices for requested advice could not be paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u58	Indeed, the Commission on Nuclear Facilities made a number of findings in its 2016 annual report and informed me of this. She worked on proposals to improve the law of 11 April 2003 in 2017 and recently gave me her opinion on this. I will read that opinion thoroughly and, of course, take it to heart. As far as unpaid invoices are concerned, the main issue is NIRAS invoices for advice in the context of the three-yearly revisions. With regard to these invoices, I have asked the Commission to resolve this past situation, but I also intend to resolve the future through a structural solution in the framework of the financing of this body. I would like to remind you that the legal basis for the financing of the Commission des réservations nucléaires has been laid down in Articles 9 and 10 of the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions. In particular, this law specifies that these costs are borne by the nuclear supply company, which in turn rebills them to the nuclear operators and the companies concerned. The Royal Decree of 1 May 2006 set the maximum operating costs of the Commission for Nuclear Supplies at EUR 500 000 per year, an amount which is adapted annually to the consumer price index. A royal decree implementing article 10 of the Act of 11 April 2003, which determines the modalities of operation, must complement the legal framework. A draft royal decree is being reworked by my administration. As I indicated to you on 23 January in this committee, I approved a proposal for an operating budget for the Committee on Nuclear Supplies, which it had submitted to me. It's a first since 2003. That had not been done since then. These resources, which are sufficient, lasting and whose source complies with the legal requirement, will obviously benefit the functioning of the Commission, of which it is known that the mission is important, especially now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u59	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament 23500 of Mrs Dierick's will be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u62	Mr President, Minister, on Monday 12 February you met the Vice-President of the European Commission, responsible for the Energy Union, Mr Sefcovic, at the offices of the Permanent Representation of Belgium to the European Union. On your Twitter account, I read that the topic of conversation was the production of batteries in the European Union. This meeting therefore reflected in the EU Battery Alliance, the Commission's plan to further expand battery production in Europe. That plan was launched by the competent Commissioner in October 2017. Our group has a particular interest in this issue. The production of batteries was a spearhead of the investment plan of Ecolo and Groen, BE.invest 2030. I think there is a lot on the table to bring activities to our country within the framework of the EU Battery Alliance, but that there is a need for political coordination and voluntarism. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What has been the Belgian contribution to the preparation of the EU Battery Alliance plan so far? What are our government's priorities in this area? What efforts are being made to enable large-scale battery production in the home country? What were the main results of the consultation held on 12 February? What role will battery production include in the final version of the Energy Pact? Do you not think it is necessary to deepen and further develop the ambition in this area, particularly in view of Umicore's ambition to achieve battery factories in Europe? Umicore is a Belgian player and I think we should do everything in our power to anchor such activities and domains. It's always risky to ask a minister to interfere, but in all my naivety I would like to focus on your plans and ambitions in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u63	Mr Calvo, I have no answer in Dutch. Since it is a little difficult for me to translate the answer into French, I will therefore speak in French. Thank you for your understanding. The aim of the event of 12 February, organised by our Permanent Representation to the European Union, was to begin to raise awareness among the various circles about what was happening in the field of batteries, for which other Member States, in particular Poland, Germany and France, are trying to capture a significant part of this future market. There is not yet a proper action plan. It was broadcast on the European Industry Day in Brussels on 22 February. For the moment, the European Commission has carried out scattered initiatives - not pejorative - i.e. various initiatives in various places, mainly aimed at industrial circles and federations. We have no visibility of Belgian participation, except that of Umicore and Solvay, as you mentioned. There is not yet any text discussed at Council level. As you know, the government is committed to energy savings, particularly through energy efficiency. With regard to the interview on 12 February, it was an awareness-raising exercise that was very successful, with high-level participation and articles in the press witnessing this. There has been a very important interest on the part of our colleagues from the other Member States and active participation at ministerial level with regard to our country. The Energy Pact mentions the need to continue to develop competitive energy storage solutions for longer periods of time, in particular in the form of battery storage. He mentioned that battery technology has significant potential for local storage and even for the electrical system as a whole. The production of solar and wind energy will become increasingly important in the future, with the challenge of designing flexible solutions to cope with changes in demand and supply. At the level of electric vehicles, intelligent demand management must allow these cars not to be loaded at the same time and to increase peaks in demand, but rather to load them at times when renewable current is available in large quantities, or even to return stored energy at the time of peak consumption. Similarly, for energy services, self-generated energy can be stored and consumers can supply their homes with electricity via the battery. As can be seen from the two examples cited, battery storage can provide a multitude of services to the various actors in electricity, such as renewable energy producers, balance makers and consumers. Storage is at the heart of today's challenges in relation to the energy transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u64	The legislation on nuclear exports is governed by the law of 9 February 1981. In 2010, there appeared to have been an infringement of that legislation with the export of depleted uranium gamma-graphy devices to Iran. I asked several parliamentary questions about this at the time. That turned out to be a particularly relevant file at the time. I understand from an earlier reply, Madam Minister, that the legal investigation of that infringement is still ongoing. Minister of Justice Koen Geens, whom I also questioned about this, also just confirmed this in the Justice Commission. However, what surprised me in your reply from a while ago is the fact that a new investigation would have been opened into a possible new infringement. I quote from your written reply: 'A review of a suspected infringement of the law of 9 February 1981 is ongoing'. It would therefore be a second nuclear export infringement. That's what makes me frown the eyebrows. Can you give more information on that new, second file, including a state of the investigation? What material were we talking about? To what destination? When did the breach start? What steps has the CANVEK, of which you are a supervisory minister, taken vis-à-vis the company concerned? What initiatives have you taken to avoid such infringements? Why is there still no cooperation agreement on nuclear exports, which has long been envisaged and which has already been the subject of two incidents? From your reply, I have concluded that little progress has been made on the cooperation agreement. I do not understand that, as it is about very sensitive matters. I repeat: in 2010 it was about a file on nuclear exports to Iran, and that country is not the best holiday destination for nuclear material. Nevertheless, there is now a second possible infringement but still no cooperation agreement. I hope your answers have more substance than your previous written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u65	Mr President, Mr Calvo, I am responsible for the dossier, together with more than half of the government: Koen Geens, Jan Jambon, Steven Vandeput, Zuhal Demir, Johan Van Overtveldt, Didier Reynders, Maggie De Block, Kris Peeters and myself. My answer is very brief. As you said, there is indeed a new investigation in progress. Since the investigation by the CANVEK has not yet been completed, I cannot at present give details of the material, destination and date of export. It is still a suspected infringement, at least not nuclear materials. The company was heard and informed of the procedures to be followed. In 2017, there was an informal discussion on the cooperation between the CANVEK and the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u66	This answer is quite inadequate. I have the impression that you do not properly assess the seriousness of the situation. We are talking about very sensitive materials, namely the export of nuclear technologies and materials. In a relatively short time, there have been two problems, first in Iran and now a second file on which you cannot or do not want to provide information. You give less information than the Minister Magnette at the time gave me on the Iran dossier. You cannot provide any more information, but above all you do not seem to be making any progress. The cooperation agreement on nuclear exports is included in the agreement on the sixth state reform. It is important that the Regions and the federal level work actively together here. Otherwise there will be loopholes in the network that will be used. I ask you each year what authorisations have been issued and which have been refused. Each year, I note that no progress has been made on the cooperation agreement. I honestly don't understand. It gets little attention, but it's particularly relevant. Witness the file of 2010. If you read the words 'nuclear exports' and 'Iran' in the same sentence in a dossier, it should normally be sufficient to take action. But in this respect, you have been stalling for years to conclude the cooperation agreement and take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u67	Mr President, Minister, it has been more than five years since NIRAS submitted the application for authorisation for the construction and operation of the category A waste disposal plant in Dessel to the FANC. At the end of 2014, the FANC asked another 300 additional questions, most of which were answered by NIRAS. The FANC hoped to have all the information by mid-2017. NIRAS hoped to obtain a permit in the course of this year. The estimate of the cost of the cAt project has increased regularly in recent years. Your predecessor replied to previous parliamentary questions that the estimates are periodically reworked on the basis of new economic conditions and any technical adjustments. Can you give us an update and a corresponding timing on this file? Which award procedures are currently under way and which are still under way? Which bodies will provide further advice on this project and which public investigations will continue to take place? Can you give an overview of the interim estimates of the costs of this project? How many funds have already been transferred to the established local fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u68	Mr President, Mr Calvo, my answer is long and I hope you are ready to listen to it. The preparation of the site dedicated to the disposal facilities started at the end of 2017 and will be ready in the second semester of 2018 provided the necessary permits are obtained. The start of the realisation of the administrative and technical building, the access cluster that will include the control room from which all remote operations are carried out, and some technical buildings are planned for the second semester of 2018. The entry into service of the access cluster is scheduled for the end of 2019. The realisation of the plant for the production of monoliths, the IPM, in which the waste will be placed in caissons and then poured into mortar, should start in the second half of 2018. The plant would be put into operation by the end of 2021. The installation for the production of monoliths will be located on the site of Belgoprocesses. The realisation of the TABLOO communication centre, which will provide information on the management of radioactive waste in general and on the disposal of low-level and short-lived waste in particular, would start in the second semester of 2018 and be put into operation in the beginning of the second semester of 2021. The realisation of the caisson plant in which the concrete caissons will be made which will contain the radioactive waste and which will be stored in the disposal plant would start in the second semester of 2018 and be put into operation in the beginning of the second semester of 2021. I feel like I've already said...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u69	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u70	Don't say, "Yes," because I'm not sure you're listening. I'll keep going, I'll check later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u71	Madam Minister, come on, come on!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u72	Mr President, you will see that my reactions are very quick! He's anxious, he's anxious... The realisation of the surface storage modules "the concrete bunkers in which the waste is to be stored" should begin in the second semester of 2019. The start of operation of the first four modules is planned for the end of 2022, provided that the necessary authorisations are obtained. Secondly, six public procurement procedures are under way for the implementation of the project. The following is the list, which also lists the stage at which each proceeding is to be held as of February 21, 2018. Item 1: Construction of the TABLOO communications centre. The selection phase of this contract has been completed. The special specifications will be sent in the first quarter of 2018 to the selected candidates. Item 2: Development of the permanent exhibition of the communication centre. The selection phase of this contract has been completed. The special specifications will be sent in the second quarter of 2018 to the selected candidates. Item 3: Land preparation for the future storage site. The selection phase of this contract is under way. Item 4: Construction of the access cluster. The special specifications were sent to the selected candidates. Item 5: Construction of the caisson plant. The selection phase of this contract has been completed. The special specifications will be sent in the first quarter of 2018 to the selected candidates. Point 6: Delivery of the dosing and cementing facility for the monolith production facility. The special specifications were sent to the selected candidates. I understand your question, under point 3, concerning the authorisation of the storage facility. Note: the IPM installation is already authorised. This storage facility is now subject to a combined authorisation issued by the federal authority for the nuclear component and by the Flemish Region for the component within its competence. As regards the nuclear component, in accordance with Article 6.2 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation, ONDRAF submitted on 31 January 2013 the application for a nuclear authorisation for the installation for the surface storage of Category A waste to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. ONDRAF is currently responding to questions posed by AFCN. Once the Agency finds that the ONDRAF has satisfactorily answered all the questions and that the responses to them have been included in the safety report, the AFCN will provide advice to its Scientific Council. The public inquiry referred to in section 6.4 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 will be organized by the AFCN. The latter, by official letter of 8 December 2017, indicated that ONDRAF had answered all the questions satisfactorily. The safety report will be completed by ONDRAF in 2018, after which the AFCN will issue an opinion on the matter within its Scientific Council. The public inquiry referred to in section 6.4 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 will be organized by the AFCN. As far as the regional part is concerned, the ONDRAF will at the same time submit an application for an environmental authorisation relating to the surface storage facility in the Flemish Region. In accordance with Article 23 of Flemish Decree Decreet betreffende de omgevingsvergunning, the competent regional services will carry out the planned public investigations. Finally, pursuant to Article 41 of the Euratom Treaty, which obliges operators to notify the European Commission of investment projects in the programmed nuclear sector, ONDRAF is currently working on its notification for project cAt A (category A). According to the current schedule, this notification is scheduled for the end of the first half of 2018, before the publication of the contract notice. ONDRAF estimated the updated cost of the cAt project at €1,428 million as of 1 January 2016. These costs include the construction, operation and closure of the surface storage facility and the monitoring period, technological margins, project margins and costs already incurred. The estimated costs have evolved as follows: EUR 930 million in 2008, EUR 1,250 million in 2012 and, at the present stage of development, EUR 1,428 million. This is mainly due to the following factors: a re-estimate of the costs of institutional control (closure item), the taking into account of the costs of AFCN control, property taxes and nuclear liability insurance, the increase from 1.5% to 1% of the discount rate. Pursuant to the Royal Decree of 25 April 2014 amending the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981 determining the tasks and laying down the procedures for the operation of the public body for the management of radioactive waste and fissile material with regard to the provision of the long-term fund, ONDRAF is currently re-evaluating the costs of the cAt A project. New agreements between the organization and producers will have to be implemented by January 1, 2019. Finally, Article 179 § 2, 11° of the Act of 8 August 1980 on the 1979-1980 budget proposals provides that "the obligation to contribute to the fund in the medium term shall begin from the moment when the installation of the final deposit of radioactive waste has been the subject of a definitive and enforceable authorization to create, in accordance with the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers arising from ionizing radiation, and relating to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, as well as an authorization to build and, where appropriate, an environmental permit, in accordance with the applicable regional legislation". Given that local funds will come from the medium-term fund and the authorization has not yet been granted, the local fund has not yet been funded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u73	Minister, the ASN, which is the French equivalent of the AFCN, has, in a report released in mid-January, made reservations regarding oil waste in connection with their project CIGEO to bury radioactive waste. These radioactive sludges, packed in bitumen, are highly flammable. They account for 18% of all waste in France. Can you tell me what the expected volume of bituminous waste to be buried in Belgium is, if that is the option chosen? Can you tell me if these bituminous wastes are classified as B or C? Where are they currently stored? What particular monitoring are they subject to? Have there been any problems with these wastes and, if so, which ones? What long-term management is envisaged for this waste?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u74	Mr Nollet, most of this bituminous waste has been produced in the Eurobitume plant which has now been completely dismantled following the operation of the pilot Eurochemic reprocessing plant. This bituminization process was used to condition medium-activity liquids. Information taken from ONDRAF, approximately 18,000 packages of bituminous waste are stored and not stored at Belgoprocess site 1 in Dessel. The majority of this waste falls into Category B. There are no packages of Category C bitumen waste. The reference solution advocated by ONDRAF for the long-term management of Category B bitumen waste is geological storage. These packages, as well as other radioactive waste packages stored on the Belgoprocess site by ONDRAF, are regularly inspected. On a limited number of packages, corrosion, swelling and, in a limited number of cases, bitumen overflow have been observed in the past. This is not new and it has already been the subject of many parliamentary questions to my predecessors in the period 2006-2010. I'll refer you to their answers. This is the written question No 166 of 24 February 2006 by Mrs Gerkens to Minister Verwilghen, oral questions No 1965 and No 17983 by Mrs Gerkens, No 5670 by Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten, No 8278 by Mr Philippe Henry and No 2555 by Mr Olivier Deleuze, all addressed to Minister Magnette. It should be noted that these non-compliances with the visual inspection criteria established by ONDRAF do not pose any danger to the safety of Belgoprocess workers, residents or the environment. Checks take place very regularly. For packages of medium-activity bitumen waste stored in the storage facility intended for them, a comprehensive visual inspection is carried out using a camera at the package level located outside the stack. In the case of low activity bitumen waste packages, all of which are placed in an overpack and also stored in a dedicated storage building, a number of reference packages are subject to periodic visual inspection. In addition, Belgoprocess carries out routine periodic inspection rounds in the storage building to detect possible non-compliance with visible parcels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u75	Madam Minister, in response to my question No 23144, you told me that you would remain particularly attentive to the trialogue led by the Bulgarian Presidency, following the European Parliament's desire to increase the target of energy consumption in Europe from renewable sources by 27% to 35% in 2030. What position has Belgium taken in this trialogue? Staying on the 27 % previously agreed or supporting the raising of ambitions voted by a large majority in the European Parliament and already officially and publicly supported by many countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u76	Mr Nollet, the Council conclusions of 2014 and the general approach endorsed by the Council of Ministers of the European Energy Union of 18 December 2017 set European renewable energy targets for 2030, i.e. 27% at EU level. All Member States must contribute to this effort in a fair and inclusive manner and Belgium will continue to support this approach during the start of the trialogues. This is the position currently being defended by Belgium. The European target of 35% proposed by the European Parliament is ambitious. An impact assessment would be appropriate and adapted to these new proposals. The potential of renewable energy sources in their various components, which are not limited to electric renewables, but also cover renewable transport, renewable heating and cooling, and final energy consumption, which should be limited, should be analysed finely. There should also be a clear distinction in the development of targets, the coherent aspects and the differences between an economic policy aimed at the development of renewable energy sources and an environmental climate policy aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, so as to avoid conflicting consequences. The policy pursued in this context must be ambitious, effective and realistic. I continue to advocate for ambitious national climate goals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u77	Madam Minister, I am stunned! You have just told us that Belgium has defended the maintenance of 27 % of the climate target.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u78	Indeed, Mr Nollet, it was the decision that was taken most recently in coordination. I see it with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u79	And you dare to boast of being ambitious?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u80	No, don't mix it up. I want to make myself understood correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u82	There is coordination at the national level, you certainly are aware of it. Despite the ambitious proposal of the European Parliament, this coordination decided - as an introduction to the trialogue - to position itself against the target of 27%, following the Council conclusions in 2014 and 2017. It's a truth I have to tell you. If I tell you that - and I put everything on the conditional - the target of 35% is ambitious and I want to defend it, even if I have not been able to make myself heard, and that it seems to me to require further analysis that I have declined in front of you by using subjunctives, it is because I think it would help to fuel the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u83	Minister, there is something that I did not understand in your second answer. You say you defended that rate. Does this mean that the Federal Government has defended the 35 % target in Belgian coordination?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u84	You're right to let me know. I said to my colleague: "There are still ambitious objectives at the level of the European Parliament and our Dutch neighbours; perhaps it would be worth seeing what has been done." You will remember our conversations about this. He said, "There's nothing to do, coordination... "
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u85	But what is your position? Did the federal government defend 35% or 27%?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u86	The Federal and the Regions have defended 27% in coordination.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u87	So things are clear. Belgium, including the federal government, is among the most conservative countries in Europe. On such an essential objective, when there is an opinion of the European Parliament which says 35%, while all speeches say that we need to be more ambitious, when we have signed the Paris Agreement, I am astonished to see that Belgium has defended 27%!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u88	It's not worth yelling at the wolf right now! It's the start of the trialogue and it's going to last a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u89	Madam Minister, you have frozen the Belgian position. Belgium has taken the most conservative position. I'm outraged: 27%! France asked for more. You used to be open there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u90	Mr Nollet, France has a great deal of trouble with its renewable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u91	The Netherlands, as you pointed out, has even asked to go beyond 35%. And Belgium doesn't even have an intermediate position? It's catastrophic for the climate! It's not "climate-apathetic" anymore, it's "climate-scepticism." We know we're not gonna make it. You will not be able to maintain the 2°C temperature rise if we stay on this path. The European Parliament says so. And all the parties of your majority voted in the European Parliament. Why not your government? I'm outraged!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u92	I understand your surprise and your emotion. However, you are quoting France, but I see today in the press that there will be no offshore wind turbines for ten years in the Atlantic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u93	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u94	I can't answer you like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u95	Madam Minister, we are not going to benchmark all the European states in an oral question. We will try to conclude. Mr. Nollet finished his line. Can we consider this to be over?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u96	Mr President, I want to point out that, although Mr Nollet is a Member of Parliament, the Regions are also concerned. I would also like to stress that everything I have said about economics, transport, heat, heating, cooling and final consumption of the inhabitants is regional.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u97	Mr Nollet, please finish your reply before proceeding to the next item on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u98	Mr. Speaker, I wanted to apologize to the minister if the firmness of the tone I used could shock her, but it is up to what I am learning today as information. Madam Minister, you are talking to me about economy and efficiency. Here we talk about renewable energy. Excuse me, but the position Belgium has taken is abhorrent in view of what it has signed in Paris!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u99	Madam Minister, in response to my question No. 23147 on the distribution of competence in geological storage, I was informed in particular that you had not been able to examine in detail the relevant regional provisions on the question of depth. I would therefore like to return to this point and hope for a complete answer since the time has been given between the previous question and the present. Minister, could you please tell me what the appropriate public authority is with respect to the subsoil occupation? My question relates to a possible geological repository of nuclear waste B and C. If so, and depending on the three regions of our country, from what depth does each Region become competent? If the Regions are, in one way or another, partially competent, have you already spoken with them about a possible geological repository of nuclear waste? If so, when and what was this exchange about? What were the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u100	Mr Nollet, the construction and operation of a geological storage facility for radioactive waste involves the implementation of regional and federal competences. According to Article 6 of the Special Law on Institutional Reforms of 8 August 1980, the protection of the environment, the protection of which lies within the competence of the Regions. The same provision provides that the federal authority shall remain competent for protection against ionizing radiation, including radioactive waste. Federal jurisdiction over underground gas storage reservoir sites also comes into play under the Act of 18 July 1975 on the Search and Operation of Underground Gas Storage Tank Sites. At the federal level, with regard to the management of radioactive waste, it should be noted that to date there is no specific regulatory framework for authorizing a storage facility. This framework should address the issue of interfaces between competences exercised by different competent authorities. Within the time limit, I have not been able to examine in detail all the relevant regional provisions on the question of depth, but the 500-metre one is considered to be the one delimiting the areas of competence for the management of the deep subsoil. For the latter, checks must be carried out in regional legislation. For example, for deep geothermal, such a regional activity could compete with federal activities such as gas storage or radioactive waste management. In this context, it will be important to clarify the roles of each. As part of a future authorisation for deep geothermal projects in the Flemish Region, pursuant to the Decree of 8 May 2009 on the deep subsoil, amended in 2017, a consultation is under way between the various institutional actors potentially interested in using the Flemish subsoil in order to exchange scientific and technical information. These various actors are the Omgeving Department of Vlaamse Overheid, the SPF Economy, the Directorate-General for Energy and the Directorate-General for Quality and Safety, AFCN and ONDRAF. My administration is following this file closely and does not fail to inform my staff of the progress of the technical discussions on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u101	Mr President, since this question has not been answered, I should like to repeat it. Minister, we know that the presence of the Tihange and Doel nuclear power plants is a major concern for the municipalities of Huy and Beveren. The producers compensate these communes for some of the worries caused. Can you tell me more about the height and nature of each of the financial and non-financial aid granted by Electrabel and EDF to the municipalities of Huy and Beveren?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u102	Mr President, Mr Nollet, it is difficult for me to comment here on amounts collected by municipalities or to identify them. It is obviously not my responsibility. I understand that you have representatives in Huy, or at least in nearby areas, in Amay for example. In relation to what you express as a concern that the nuclear power plants would cause to the communes of Huy and Beveren, and your question about the amounts that the producers pay in compensation to these communes for some of the worries caused, I must simply tell you: 0 euro. I'm not saying it, it's the local of Ecolo de Marchin in 2014. I quote. "But isn't this gift a fair reward for the inconvenience suffered by the municipalities near the nuclear power plant?" Answer: "No, because in a solidarity state, this payment has a name: tax. The latter, far from being like patronage, is not conditional on the valorisation of the company in question. When it comes to compensation for inconvenience, there is no consideration to be demanded." I don't know where the town of Marchin is. I didn't have time to check. But in my opinion, it must be in the vicinity. Mr de Lamotte certainly knows this better than we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u103	South of Huy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u104	According to this interpretation, therefore, there is no compensation for inconvenience, as you say. On the other hand, around the Tihange site, and for many years now, the company Electrabel has established agreements with municipalities around the centre to regulate training and information services for staff and the population, and to finance projects: heritage beautification projects, educational projects, environmental improvement projects, sports infrastructure projects, cultural projects and social projects. This has been put in place to sustain the integration and societal base of the nuclear site in its local socio-cultural environment. According to the figures communicated by Electrabel and already published several times in the press, as far as the Tihange power station is concerned, the amount in question for 2017 amounts to 4,551,500 euros, including 2,960,000 euros for the city of Huy, a total of 851,500 euros for seventeen other neighbouring municipalities, including the municipality of Amay, of which I have just spoken, and the municipality of Heron, and finally an amount of 740,000 euros for SRI, that is, the regional fire service, which became the Hemeco area (Hesbaye, Meuse, Condroz). With regard to the Doel power plant, there is no amount comparable to what I have just indicated for the Walloon power plants in 2017. Finally, for both sites, high taxes are levied in whole or in part on the municipalities: real estate discount, tax on the driving force, tax on the occupation of the land. However, I do not know the details of this, of course not within my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u105	Madam Minister, in response to my oral question No 23073, you informed me on 31 January that you would soon meet Mr Andreas Pinkwart, the new Minister of Energy for North Rhine-Westphalia. Has this meeting ever taken place? If not, when is it planned? If so, when did it take place and, above all, how did it come out? What did he say about the possibility of supplying German electricity in exchange for shutting down the reactors in Tihange? What are the terms of this discussion? What is the offer offered by the Germans? How do you react to this stretched hand? What is the next step in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u106	Mr Nollet, I did meet Mr Pinkwart, who came with a delegation from his administration and cabinet. I also remember a press representative. It was first of all an awareness, since he had just been appointed to that position. Our exchange focused on the ALEGrO interconnection link, which will soon take place. I told him that my skills were federal, at the national level in his country, and that it was difficult for me to talk to him, who has more regional concerns. He admitted it without any difficulty. He gave me a technical paper on interconnections and Elia's plan for interconnection. This document is called BET or has been established by a body called BET. We talked about things and others on the sidelines of this, which were rather related to the visit of Mr Laschet, who is his minister-president and whom I met at the German Embassy in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u107	In one of these meetings, was the proposal to "exchange" the production of one of their polluting plants with the closure of nuclear power plants raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u108	Pollutant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u109	Coal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u110	No, he didn't mention coal. He talked about a gas plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u111	That sounds less important, actually.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u112	It is on this subject that I also spoke in the press because the problem of gas-fired power plants located abroad systematically leads us to a difficulty in European competition rules. Indeed, Europe tells us, and this has already been mentioned in committee in relation to my predecessor's plan, that it is not appropriate for the Belgian consumer to support gas-fired power stations established in foreign territory if, at the same time, we do not support Belgian gas-fired power stations. I told him that these are questions which, in any case, cannot be considered between different levels of power and that, perhaps, the German Federal Minister who is appointed and whom I will surely meet at a forthcoming European Council, will discuss them with me. But there is still this obstacle linked to the European rules, knowing that in addition - they know it, they have followed the news - we have an energy vision which provides for the installation of new gas plants, including the use of existing gas plants for the release of nuclear energy here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u113	Minister, thank you for these important clarifications. We are no longer in the perspective that had, at some point, considered coal well before. We're actually on a gas proposal. That's good. That's what I thought, but I wanted to do that check. Do they do so in connection with the closure of the cracked plant or in absolute agreement with all the plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u114	It's the file that comes back all the time. At the same time, it comes back because it has to come back. There is judicial treatment for this case, which I blame them for diplomatically, but Mr Pinkwart did not address that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u115	Yes, of course, judicial treatment is going on anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u116	In any case, on the diplomatic level, I repeat that I do not appreciate and that these are things that are not being done between States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u117	He'll get angry with you again!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u118	It's okay. We can get angry, but sometimes, after we get angry, we can make up. I don't see what the problem is. He's still a great ally. As far as interconnection is concerned, I would still like to draw your attention, Mr Nollet, to the fact that the electrons circulating there are not identified and that this will come in part from the German energy mix which includes many coal and lignite power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u119	Yes, but it seems to me that he also spoke of a direct line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u120	That's what I told you about the gas plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u121	That's why when we talk about interconnection, it's quite another thing. These are direct gas lines. This is still different from what was mentioned earlier, but it is interesting for the debate. I understand that the next big step, and thank you for making it clear, is the meeting with the new federal minister, with whom you will speak equally - if I can use this expression to talk about the levels of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u122	Mr President, I have only one question because the text of the other has disappeared. Minister, it was at the end of January that the IRE announced a partnership with ASML. Can you confirm that the purpose of this partnership is to develop a new method of producing medical isotopes without resorting to nuclear fission? Can you tell us a little more about this partnership, and above all about the prospects it offers in this area? At what time can one imagine an industrial production of medical isotopes without the use of fission, and thus without the dependence of what is produced at the Mol reactor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u123	Mr Nollet, my answer assumed that Question Nos 23688 and 23702 were identical. You confirmed it. This will be an economy for your statistics. IRE is a major global player in the production of medical radioisotopes. The Institute aims to ensure the long-term supply of molybdenum-99 and to maintain the quality and level of service to meet the needs of a large number of patients. The aim of the research partnership with ASML is to develop a new method of producing medical isotopes such as molybdenum-99/technetium-99m, a product for which IRE is currently world leader, and which accounts for about 80% of the diagnostic procedures in nuclear medicine worldwide. This is remarkable enough to be stressed. The first phase of the project involves a feasibility study, with risk analysis and associated contingency plan. It is premature to take a position on any deadline at this stage, but it is clear that this complex research project will span several years. An alternative technology to nuclear fission, the technology to be evaluated by IRE is based on the photo-nuclear reaction molybdenum-100, gamma neutrons, molybdenum-99, i.e. the extraction of a neutron from the nucleus of the molybdenum-100 atom by high-energy gamma radiation produced from an accelerator. This gamma radiation thus transforms the starting atom by reducing its mass, to obtain the mass isotope 99 of molybdenum. This radioisotope is the mother radioisotope of technetium-99m, which is obtained by radioactive decay. Of course, I would not be able to tell you this by heart. Scientists are writing this. It is probable and even certain that this is precisely what is going on in scientific and technical terms. This technology therefore offers the main advantage of being able to produce radioisotopes by photo-nuclear reaction without creating long-lived nuclear waste. Molybdenum-100 recovery processes may allow recycling or reprocessing of the raw materials used, mainly for environmental reasons, but also for technological and economic reasons. Your question suggests that we could do without reactors like Mol's to industrially produce medical radioisotopes via this photo-nuclear industry. Nothing is less true today. Radioisotopes produced in a nuclear reactor, by a fission reaction or by another neutron reaction or by an accelerator – a proton reaction or high energy spallation – generally target different medical applications, either of a therapeutic nature or for diagnostic applications. For example, lutetium-177, which is an important isotope for therapeutic applications in prostate cancer lute, can only be produced in a reactor, whereas fluorine-18 can only be produced with accelerators. Far from being in competition, they are in fact largely complementary. So without a tool like the BR2 reactor of the SCK-CEN to produce radioisotopes is not for tomorrow. It is true that molybdenum-99 can be produced with both processes, but for production from an accelerator to replace that from a reactor, it is essential to achieve a radiopharmaceutical purity comparable to that of today, similar yields, as well as to obtain authorisation from the authorities for the placing on the market of new pharmaceutical products using these radioisotopes produced by accelerators. This is not yet the case. But research and development are progressing as demonstrated by the IRE initiative. All this takes time and, in the meantime, global security and supply must be guaranteed In this context, the BR2 reactor at SCK-CEN will continue to play a vital role for a long time. The production of radioisotopes from accelerators has not been done in the past. Research is now focused on new generation radioisotopes for cancer treatment. These are mainly alpha isotope emitters and OG electron emitters produced from cyclotrons or linear accelerators. High-energy linear accelerators, just like the one developed by SCK-CEN as part of the MYRRHA project, are also promising. For this reason, SCK-CEN proposed to study the production of new generation radioisotopes with this accelerator by 2025-2035. I hope to have convinced you that Belgium is innovating all azimuts in the production of radioisotope, and that it is developing, by not putting all its eggs in the same basket, chains and infrastructures in different directions to maintain and sustain its position as world leader in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u124	Madam Minister, no, you didn't convince me. But I'll take the time to read and decorate your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u125	Minister, your colleague in charge of the North Sea is proposing to create floating islands in the Zeebrugge wind farm and to install solar panels there. Have you been consulted or associated with this reflection? What do you think as Minister of Energy? Have you chosen this idea in the context of the draft Energy Pact that you have concluded with your regional energy ministers? What is your assessment of offshore solar potential on the Belgian plateau? Do you share the idea that this project could, I quote an excerpt from the newspaper: "(...) produce from 2030 between 2.2 and 4 GW per year"?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u126	Mr Nollet, I obviously support any new renewable energy development project. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, given the stage at which the discussions are taking place, the project is aimed at the development of the North Sea, which falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for the North Sea. The first concrete step would be to carry out a feasibility study for the establishment of offshore solar panels. I would also like to inform you that the current North Sea development plan does not provide for zoning for such activities. I invite you to question Philippe De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u127	He's in charge of zoning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u128	I'm responsible for the energy and he's responsible for the soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u129	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u130	We have to start with the plan. The same applies to concessions for wind turbines. That's the logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u131	What about power?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u132	Interrogez-le!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u133	It's your part!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u134	First, he has to make his plan, and then there's a feasibility study. We'll be worried about how much power we can install on this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u135	Minister, section 2 of the Order of 30 March 2007 states that "any final customer who can prove that he or any other person living under the same roof is entitled to a decision to grant, in particular, an allowance for disabled persons shall be one of the protected residential customers entitled to the application of the social energy tariff". The computerised application developed by DG Energy in order to automate the granting of the social tariff to rightholders has been configured in such a way that the social tariff is applied, not from the date of taking effect of the decision giving them the right to that tariff, but from the first day of the quarter in which that decision took place. In the case of persons with disabilities, the Disability DG of the SPF Social Security can sometimes decide on the allocation of an allowance for a disabled person within six months of the submission of the application. Where a positive decision is taken, the entitlement to the allowance shall in principle take effect on the first day of the month following the submission of the application, the differential between the granting decision and the taking into effect of the grant thus leading to a financial loss for the beneficiary which increases in proportion to that differential. The Federal Ombudsman thus reports on a situation in which the Disability DG decided on 30 August 2011 to grant an allowance to a disabled person effective 25 August 2009. Under this decision, the beneficiary obtained the social rate for electricity and gas, which, however, was granted only from 1 July 2011, i.e. the first day of the quarter from the time the decision was taken and not from the time it took effect. As a result, the claimant suffered a financial loss of more than 22 months. We can also imagine the case where such an allowance would be awarded following a judicial decision after several years of proceedings. It would also seem unfair that the date taken into account for the social energy tariff is the date of the award decision, whereas the assignee should have been entitled to it in material terms well before. This situation was denounced by the Federal Ombudsman in his recommendations to the Economy Committee in 2015. In particular, it requested that DG Energy ensure that the social tariff applies to those entitled from the date of taking effect of the decision and not from the first quarter from which it is made, as well as to adapt model attestations to the annexes of royal decrees, so that the date of taking effect of the decision would also be mentioned. I know, Madam Minister, that you have already answered similar questions. In your replies, you indicated, on the one hand, that you did not share the Federal Ombudsman's interpretation of the above-mentioned ministerial order and, on the other hand, that the retroactive application of the social energy tariff would entail great administrative complications. Nevertheless, in view of the arguments put forward above, this state of affairs seems to me to remain fairly unfair. Why not amend the Ministerial Order of 30 March 2007 to put an end to any ambiguity? As far as administrative complications are concerned, why not at least propose that the difference between the tariff actually paid and the social rate should not be allocated in the form of compensation to the beneficiaries who would explicitly request it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u136	Minister, I have tabled a question on the same subject for your colleague Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities. However, this committee meets before. For just over a year, there have been significant computer problems for the Disability DG. The coincidence of the calendar means that yesterday morning we made a visit with Mrs Demir, during which we had an exchange of views on the subject. The situation is being stabilized, but the processing time is still longer than six or seven months. For allowances, there is a retroactivity of the decision. For the social rate, on the other hand, when people are entitled to it, if the decision takes six, seven, eight months or more, during all that time, these people lose money when they do not have much money. I also wanted to refer to the Ombudsman's report. Almost 700 complaints were reportedly lodged on the issue of the social electricity and gas tariff. The Ombudsman recommends that retroactivity be applied so that persons with disabilities are not penalized. How many people with disabilities are penalized by these delays? I do not know whether you will be able to answer this question or whether it falls more within the competence of Mrs Demir. Has the Secretary of State initiated a consultation with you to allow people to recover the money they lost as a result of a breach by the State? I hope that a solution can be found because those people who are already in a state of weakness are disadvantaged by problems related to the functioning of our administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the questions have not been joined, I have two answers which I will give one after the other, knowing that they can overlap. Nevertheless, I do not have statistics. I can tell you already. Mr de Lamotte, I obviously share your frustration that the cases of people in precarious situations have from time to time a long procedural period in order to obtain a social status enabling them to benefit from a social security allowance and other complementary benefits. The social tariff for electricity and/or gas is an additional duty as referred to in Article 11a(1) of the Organic Law of 15 January 1990 of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale, which specifies in Article 11a what is meant by "additional right", namely "a right to any advantage enjoyed by a natural person or his successors, by reason of the status of that natural person in matters of social security, a right other than the rights recognized in the provisions referred to in Article 2(1)(1)". A distinction should therefore be made between two elements: first, the date on which the entitlement to a basic allowance arises and, second, the date on which a person acquires the status required for the application of the social tariff, i.e. the date on which a decision to grant is taken. The social tariff for electricity and/or natural gas is not part of the social security legislation but has an autonomous legal framework anchored in the basic legislation on electricity, through the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market (Article 20, § 2, paragraph 1) and on natural gas, through the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines (Article 15/10, § 2, paragraph 1). These two articles clearly state that the Minister of Economy can apply maximum prices for citizens who are in a precarious situation. The legal framework of the social tariff does not provide that energy suppliers must apply the social tariff from the date on which the right to a certain allowance was born. This is the Ministerial Order of 30 March 2007 setting maximum social prices for the supply of gas to residential customers. You have a ministerial decree of the same date and corresponding for electricity. The ministerial decrees of 30 March 2007 limit the scope of application to "any final customer who can prove that he or any person living under the same roof benefits from a grant decision". In addition, Article 2b of the aforementioned ministerial decrees provides for a system whereby potential beneficiaries, pending their decision to the SPF Social Security, Directorate-General, or the SPF Social Security, can apply, via the CPAS, for an advance which also entitles them to the social tariff. After an analysis of the legislation, it turns out that no additional right is available when the right to a certain social security benefit arises. I'll give you an example, because it's pretty complicated. The right to the social telephone tariff or the social internet tariff begins only after an application has been made. In France, the social tariff for electricity and/or natural gas is applied only after a period of 15 days following the filing of the application has expired. For example, a parking card for disabled persons is granted only as soon as the person entitled has acquired social status. The decision not to follow up on the Ombudsman's recommendation has nothing to do with the technical complications that the Ombudsman accuses DG Energy. An adaptation of the legal framework is necessary to require energy suppliers to apply retroactively. DG Energy receives data on the birth of the right to social security and, often, several data in a single quarter: up to ten for a single file. As a result, the working method will also have to be adapted, both to the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale and to DG Energy, in order to ensure that these data are correctly read and transmitted to the energy supplier by the programme which is responsible for the automatic application. The automatic application of the social tariff runs every time until the end of the year. When this measure was taken, it was chosen not to derogate from the paper certification procedure which was then in force. In other words, as soon as the entitled party issued a paper certificate, the social tariff was applied for a full year. On the basis of the point of view of DG Energy, which is itself based on a legal and technical analysis, I believe that my administration has always dealt with the dossiers in a consistent manner. Despite the above-mentioned legal analysis, DG Energy has always been very keen to provide for a solution to the slow procedural delays in the processing of cases with social institutions. It is, of course, always prepared to consult with the partners concerned in order to make improvements to the scheme. However, she said, she was not in a position to become a leader, since the decision had to be based on social security legislation. Mr President, my administration – DG Energy – does not have any information on the number of cases that have fallen behind with the Social Security FPS Disability DG. They should be asked by Mrs Zuhal Demir, Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities, Persons with Disabilities, Scientific Policy, Head of the Big Cities and Deputy to the Minister of Security and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u138	Minister, in my opinion, your answers can be shortened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u139	Mr. President, I read cursively. It is only now that I realize that I have read all his titles!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u140	I have understood and will therefore question Mrs. Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u141	My administration, the Directorate-General for Energy, does not have any information on the number of months of delay in the files with the DG People with Disabilities. Here too, you can ask for Mrs. Demir. It should be noted that people who are waiting for assistance from the SPF Social Security, DG People with Disabilities, always have the opportunity to request advances on the interventions they are to benefit from, via the CPAS. In this case, the right to the application of the social tariff for electricity and natural gas opens, as you know. In the past, DG Energy has worked with the services of the SPF Social Security and the Federal Ombudsman on this issue. It is clear that the DG organises the application of the social tariff on the energy bill in a consistent manner. This is entirely within the framework of social security legislation. I repeat what I said. It's overlapping. The DG is always willing to do so, but does not feel ethically in a position to be the leader. This should come from the SPF Social Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u142	Minister, I will read your answer carefully. An element upsets me or disturbs me somewhat. It would be sufficient to amend two ministerial decrees. In doing so, you could change the situation of individuals and ensure that they are entitled to the social energy tariff at the time the application takes place, when they are under the conditions. All the conditions are explicit and technically, it should not be complicated to grant a refund at the time of application; these social tariffs for gas and electricity would then be granted. These citizens are in difficult situations and would be happy to see things change in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u143	From an organizational point of view, if these two points had been joined, it would have allowed you to give a single, harmonised and shorter response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u144	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u145	I will also read your answer, but I understand that there is only a right to the preferential social tariff for electricity and gas if there is a right to a social benefit from social security, or social assistance in the case of persons with disabilities. That's where the bastard hurts. People bring in a file. For computer reasons, this file was blocked seven to eight months or more. In 2017, it was the disaster. This question has something to do with the delays. The approach is to say that if the administration causes a delay, the government must give an answer so that these people are not penalized for a fault that the State and its services have committed. I'm talking about fault, but it can be some kind of problem, like a delay. I understand that it is Mrs Demir who must be the leader. That is the meaning of my main question: have you started a consultation with her, or has she asked you for a consultation? I think it would be urgent to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u146	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u147	I'll question him, too. I don't know when yet. But I really invite you to do it, so that the impulse may come from there. But, as my colleague Mr de Lamotte says, I think that it is technically possible to apply retroactivity in a case where, for example, the decision-making period exceeds the six months provided for in the Social Insurance Charter. If there is an exceedance of the normal processing time, individuals should not be injured. I therefore urge you to consult with your colleague, no matter who contacts the other, to provide an answer to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u148	We're approaching the end time. Overall, there is an improvement, but more could be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u149	Mr President, if we can deal with the following two questions, the third can be turned into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u150	There's more after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u151	I'm talking about the ones that concern me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u152	We can't treat everything today anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u153	I still have to leave, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u154	What are you proposing, Mr. Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u155	To turn question No 24026 into a written question. And to deal with the issues contained in items 22 and 23.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u156	Question No 24026 by Mr Nollet is therefore transformed into a written question, as is Question No 23992 and Question No 23993 by Mrs Jadin. In the absence of news from Mrs Galant, her questions Nos 22558 and 23938 will not apply. I do not think that the issues under items 22 and 23 can be dealt with in 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u157	I have government obligations. I have no room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u158	Mr President, if I am assured that the points on which I am speaking are postponed until next week, I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u159	Let us then deal with the attached questions under item 22. And we will see if it will still be possible to deal with the questions under item 23, in response to Mr Nollet's request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u160	Minister, the March 1 newspaper L'Echo tells us that ONDRAF has frozen the construction record of the secure storage building for defective drums containing nuclear waste in order to find a less costly solution. Do you find it acceptable that this project justified in 2014, because allowing continuous monitoring was per barrel, which is now abandoned because too expensive? Can you accept that the ONDRAF agrees to the request of those who have to pay for this building estimated at 70 million and thus brade the security nevertheless deemed necessary in 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u161	Madam Minister, I have learned in the press that the case concerning the construction of a new nuclear waste storage building has been "frozen" by ONDRAF. This was decided in 2014, the building was to facilitate the handling and inspection of some 10,000 drums currently stored in Dessel due to an alkali-silice reaction. The reason for the freeze would be the very large cost at which this facility would have been estimated, namely EUR 70 million, which would ultimately not be justified by the problem. Indeed, according to the spokesperson of ONDRAF, "it may not be necessary to build a highly technological building, with continuous monitoring in barrels". According to AFCN, "in the short term, the storage of drums does not present a safety problem; in the medium term, Belgoprocess would seek alternative solutions and provide more explanation in the coming months". Far be it from me to question the views of the various bodies mentioned above. Nevertheless I am a little afraid of so many imprecisions concerning such sensitive matter. I would therefore like to know exactly what is the short-term horizon in which these wastes do not present any safety problems? What exactly are the alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u162	During a routine inspection conducted in the spring of 2013 in a storage building for low-level waste at the Belgoprocess site in Dessel, gel formation was found on some radioactive waste drums. Remember that the safety of employees, residents and the environment has never been compromised! The National Organization for Radioactive Waste and Fortified Fissile Material (ONDRAF) immediately put in place an action plan to manage the drums concerned in the short, medium and long term. Its action plan included the construction of a new storage building at the Belgoprocess site, in which all drums with gel formation or risk of freezing would be placed. ONDRAF finalized the initial design of this future storage building and the associated cost assessment. However, his inspection and research program, which is visible on his site, allowed him to better understand the origin of freezing in these radioactive waste drums. For example, it was found that the risk of freezing was greater for some waste families than for others. The ONDRAF is now re-evaluating the need to monitor all drums in a storage building equipped with special equipment and advanced monitoring techniques. This required specific adaptation for a nuclear environment of existing handling and monitoring technologies, or even the development of new ones, with the risk of delay associated with the licensing and construction of this building. You will understand that qualifying such advanced technologies for operation in a nuclear environment so that they are fully usable, with the required reliability and safety, can take some time. In order to manage in a safe, efficient and responsible manner the space available on the Belgoprocess site and the financial resources made available and to have a suitable building, ONDRAF and Belgoprocess will study in the course of 2018 how to develop the initial concept of the storage building using existing technologies, immediately available, which have proven their robustness and reliability, but without any compromise in nuclear safety. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAC) will, of course, ensure this, particularly as part of the authorization process. In this type of industrial project, ONDRAF takes into account the continuous improvement of its knowledge of these radioactive wastes and their properties in the preparation of the final concept of this future storage building and in the re-evaluation of the associated costs. In conclusion, this project is not abandoned as you say, but optimised by ONDRAF in order to ensure the earliest possible start-up of this future storage building by means of robust, qualified and existing techniques and, I stress, without any compromise in nuclear safety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u163	Madam Minister, you will not take me away from the idea that once again, on the pretext that there is an urgency related to delays accumulated by ONDRAF, we will work at the discount. What was needed in 2014 in terms of protection is no longer needed today. This seems to be, to say the least, special.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u164	Madam Minister, I have a bit of the same point. I will also turn, in terms of nuclear safety, to the nuclear safety sub-committee to ask the question within the framework of other powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u165	I propose that the remaining questions (Nollet No. 24024, Calvo No. 24148, Nollet No. 24026, Mr. 24099 and Mr. de Lamotte No. 24100) be deferred to next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u166	Not the ones we forgot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic837x.u167	We'll do it like that. Next time, we will continue our efforts of brevity.
