ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, when a Belgian citizen decides to embark on a professional career in Germany, he is obliged to take up German health insurance and therefore to contribute to the insurance fund of that country. However, when he retires, it is no longer possible for him, when he lives in Belgium, to insure himself in Germany. As a result, he is not entitled to benefits arising from his contributions to German health insurance during his career. This situation concerns many Belgians working throughout their lives in Germany. I know something about it, considering the area from which I came. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Should cross-border workers not be entitled to their benefits because of their contributions to the German insurance fund throughout their career? Have any agreements been concluded between the two countries in this regard or, at least, are they possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, the problem referred to in your question is solved at European level by two regulations. The first relates to the coordination of social security systems (No. 883/2004). The second sets out the rules for implementing the Regulation in the health care sector (No 987/2009). It is clear from the application of the two regulations that pensioners who have determined their period of employment only in Germany are compulsorily insured by German sickness insurance. Thus, the normal benefit reimbursement rules must apply. At my request, my administration has contacted the German Ministry of Labour to verify whether the rules are being implemented in accordance with European regulations and to obtain a clarification of the exact situation of German frontier pensioners residing in Belgium. Bilateral agreements are not required since the situation is settled exclusively by the above-mentioned European regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for this very precise and complete answer. I thank you for taking the lead in finding, like me, that there may be a problem of application in our German neighbours. It would be a good idea to continue the investigations. We will follow this together with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u4	Madam Minister, like me, you are convinced of the importance of affordable medical care and of the fact that there is still a health gap between rich and poor. Sick often makes poor, and arm often makes sick. There's definitely a link. The increased compensation is partly an answer to that problem. In recent years efforts have been made to grant the increased compensation automatically where possible. For other groups this is done mainly on the basis of income, and that is not so easy. Therefore, Article 19 of the Royal Decree of 15 January 2014 introduced the proactive tax flux so that sickness funds can proactively write down their potentially entitled members. Recently, the Centre for Social Policy of the University of Antwerp and the CM came out with a study on the consequences of tax flux. This shows that there are some learning points, but above all that the system works but can be improved. The group of rightholders who took up their right to increased compensation after an action of the mutualities based on the proactive tax flux is 3 to 4 times larger than a comparable control group of people who have not been approached. Given the very hopeful results of the flux, it seems crucial to me to continue to work in conjunction with the tax authorities and the mutualities, and to agree on a workable arrangement to shape that flux structurally and to work on the shortcomings that remain. In addition, the study of the Centre for Social Policy makes it possible to examine the most effective method and to determine whether it can be applied within the various sickness funds. Madam Minister, Article 19 of the Royal Decree regulates the flow of tax data from 2015. Paragraph 4 states that this flux must be organized regularly according to the decision taken in the work call Insurability. I would therefore like to ask you a number of questions about the progress that has been made in this Working Party on Insurance. In which direction do the plans of the Working Party on Insurance go? What is meant by the notion of "regular" in paragraph 4? Can you make that more concrete? Are you planning other initiatives to increase the number of beneficiaries? There is still a gap. The people who eventually sign in, apparently received the available information largely because they were approached by the mutualities or other organizations. I believe that the increased compensation should be granted automatically as much as possible to the people who are entitled to it. If it cannot be done automatically, it must be possible via the cross-section of data, which is currently under way. If that cross-section of data can be improved, as well as contacting people, I'd like to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, the so-called proactive flux was established in 2015 as a partnership between the RIZIV, the FPS Finance, the sickness funds and the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. The proactive flux is the subject of an evaluation by the RIZIV, examining the effects of the proactive detection of the increased concession. This evaluation was registered in Article 11 of the current Administrative Agreement, concluded between the RIZIV and the Federal Government for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018. It specifically provides for the preparation of an evaluation report for the Working Party on Insurability on the effects of the provision on the proactive detection of the increased benefit. This is a data stream that was also set up under the fourth administrative agreement between the RIZIV and the federal government. Unlike the study of the Centre for Social Policy of the University of Antwerp and the Christian Mutualities, the evaluation of the RIZIV is based on the data of all insurance institutions. The interpretation of the notion of "regular debt', as referred to in Article 19 (4) of the Royal Decree of 15 January 2015 on the increased insurance meeting, will depend on the results of the evaluation of the proactive flux. Among other things, it is intended to evaluate whether or not such proactive detection of families whose tax revenues are lower than the limit amount of income to benefit from an increased concession should be repeated and possibly even extended. It is important that all the elements which can lead to greater automation of the right to the increased allowance should also be analysed, with a view to simplifying the administrative steps for the insured person, so as to reduce the time between the period in which their financial situation is precarious and the time at which they may have their automatic rights. In this respect, the RIZIV has launched other initiatives. These are included in the same governance agreement of 2016. For example, a report was prepared on the best practices relating to the granting of social benefits directly related to income in order to improve the granting of the increased benefit. Other social benefits were also examined, such as the income guarantee for older people, the right to a scholarship and the right to increased family allowances, in order to examine the extent to which they use databases or other procedures to simplify the granting of the benefit in question and to ensure the effectiveness of the granting of the social benefit. On the basis of the best practices of the social benefits studied, recommendations were made which could be taken into account in the future in order to achieve further automation of the right to an increased benefit. The last report containing the recommendations will soon be discussed in the Working Party on Insurability, with all insurance institutions. So concrete actions can already be distilled from that. In addition, possible proposals for automation of the increased concession can be made using the study of the Knowledge Centre's cost sharing function, also mentioned in Article 11 of the above-mentioned administrative agreement. The purpose of this study, the publication of which is awaited, is to update and further exploit the possibilities of refining income-related health protection measures, such as increased compensation and the maximum invoice. Finally, Article 11 of the above-mentioned administrative agreement provides for the submission of proposals for revision and further automation of the increased concession, on the basis of the above reports and study work, in order to further reduce the non-take-up in the increased concession and to achieve further administrative simplification. So we are not only increasing access, we are making it easier, so that it can be done more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u6	Madam Minister, have I understood correctly that the evaluation with the mutualities, in which everyone is involved, is still running until December 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u7	The administrative agreement shall run from 1 January 2016 to December 2018. One is already at an advanced stage. The evaluation has already taken place and is discussed in the Working Party on Insurability, with all mutualities. That is why I said that this can already be planned for the sake of operability.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u8	It is good news that this evaluation has already been carried out and that it is therefore no longer necessary to wait. A number of concrete measures and best practices can therefore be exchanged and, as I understand it, I shall be presented to the working party shortly so that the various mutualities and other partners can work on it in order to reach an even larger target group. More importantly, I believe that further work is being carried out on automatic allocation. If the group to which the rights are automatically granted is further increased, it is better than if we have to reach those concerned by other means. I assume that the mutualities in the working group will find out what they can do and how they can be improved. Madam Minister, should the discussion in the working group provide more information, I would like to receive it in writing in addition to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u9	Mr Hedebouw is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u10	Madam Secretary, the reintegration pathways have been in operation for some time now. We see in practice that more and more employers, employees and health insurance funds want to make use of this. In the past, since 2008, there has also been a possibility of rehiring employees in the company in accordance with Articles 35 and 36 of the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003. There were resumption investigations. The resumption studies allow the prevention adviser or occupational physician to consult the employee before the work resumes. On the basis of the health status of the employee, adapted work or an adapted work post was then discussed. Re-integration plans could be a useful complement to this, particularly through the multidisciplinary approach and the broader assessment of the remaining work capacity. In practice, however, we note that the occupational physician and the counseling physician continue to work relatively independently of each other. They each give their judgment and they each work from their own point of view. As a result, there is not really a multidisciplinary assessment, even because the regional employment services are not involved in the first phase. We now have reintegration pathways, but do you intend to pursue a more multidisciplinary approach within the concept of integration pathways? In the report on the discussion of the Social Affairs policy paper in committee, I read that your statement that the implementation of a quick scan by a multidisciplinary team is not feasible because the required figures are not available in time. What do you mean by that? What is the importance of these figures for making a multidisciplinary assessment? Secondly, there is still too much focus on employment integration with the old employer, while more attention should be paid to new employers. Are you planning any initiatives in this area? Do you have any contact with the regions or with the Federal Minister of Work? I once tabled a bill on employment integration jobs, which could contribute to this. That has also been mentioned in the government. Do you have any plans to take that further from the government, as agreed in the Summer Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u11	On the basis of the dossier, the consultant makes a triage of who is eligible for the reintegration plan. This is done on an administrative basis with the data available for the recognition of disability and is called the quick scan. Four cases have been identified. Firstly, it is established whether the beneficiary can spontaneously resume the work. For example, with a broken leg one is home for a long time, but can then resume work. Secondly, it is established whether the rightholder can only resume work if adjustments are made either to the way in which work is carried out or to the workplace. Thirdly, it is considered that there are no further possibilities for resumption or, fourthly, it is still too early to give a ruling, for example, if one does not yet know how the patient will recover. If adjustments are needed to enable the beneficiary to return to work, the reintegration process will indeed be started through the occupational health service for those patients who still have an ongoing contract of employment. This ensures that the guidance is only organised for the target group for whom it is useful. Afterwards, the sickness fund informs the beneficiary of the result of the quick scan. A copy of the findings can be provided via the reintegration tool to the prevention counsellor or occupational physician as well as to the treating physician GP or specialist. The occupational health service is free to take an initiative earlier, together with the person concerned. If the person concerned no longer has a contract of employment, the case will be re-examined by the medical adviser of the sickness fund. Case by case is considered whether a part of a paramedical team can provide personalised guidance. What your question No. 23511, you are right to touch on the point that we in the government need to invest more in multidisciplinaryness, and that is what is happening. Since 2015, the RIZIV, in collaboration with the Canadian institute NIDMAR, has been offering a biannual programme of disability management. At the moment a hundred students, professionals and health professionals follow the programme. In the meantime, a number of disability case managers have already graduated, who can use their experience as part of human resources services, health insurance funds and prevention services. The case manager is a health worker who operates from an international reference framework and uses best practices to guide an employee who is acute or chronically ill in the work situation. In addition, the case manager takes on a coordinating role and dialogues with the employer, employee and accompanying doctor. Let me clarify this in connection with the lack of the necessary figures to perform the quick scan on a multidisciplinary basis. As part of the evaluation of the measure by the National Labour Council, I asked for figures from the sickness funds on the number of quick scans already carried out. So far we have not received these figures from the sickness funds. So it's a problem getting those numbers. The regions also play an important role. It is the responsibility of the regions to provide appropriate guidance for citizens through their institutions to workable work. In this context, protocol agreements have been concluded between the RIZIV and the regional institutions. An important competence of the disability case manager lies in the domain of job analysis and job matching. He synchronizes competences and labour requirements. A mismatch may imply that the case manager may propose retraining or guidance through a regional institution. The sickness fund can then initiate this procedure. In addition, employers' contributions, such as VOPs, can also be used. In this sense, there is a need for strong cooperation with the sub-entities. In accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers, we are currently examining how, in the spirit of the proposal on job reintegration jobs, we can further dismantle labour and social law barriers, so that routes for long-term sick people are also a more attractive and advantageous option for employers and employees. The Minister of Work is of course also involved in digging out all possible pistes. As far as your questions on the resumption inquiry are concerned, I would refer you to the Minister responsible, the Minister for Employment. Indeed, part of the accompanying policies of the reintegration pathways are the response of the employee and the employer. The aim is to further promote the opportunities for the socio-professional reintegration of disabled workers. To this end, the draft law establishes a mechanism whereby employers who do not make sufficient efforts to help disabled workers get back to work count for their responsibilities. This translates in concrete terms into the payment of a specific amount by those employers who have to compensate part of the damage they cause to social security through their behaviour. Doctors are also being responded to. They should be more aware of prescribing disease attestations. For this reason, guidelines are being developed in cooperation with the National College for Social Insurance Medicine on Disability of Work. Those guidelines shall contain a minimum and a maximum period of rest to be prescribed after the incidence of a particular pathology. Then I come to the answer to your question No. 23513. The concrete results of the response measures are indicative. It is true that employee, employer and doctor are the three main stakeholders on reintegration pathways. Everything falls or stands with the concrete commitment, motivation, knowledge and skill of these people. Policy intervention on the obligations of these three actors must therefore be very careful. That is why the preparation of the concrete measures requires so much time. Due to the total expenditure in the disability scheme, the affected effect seems enormous, but it is actually only a limited estimated impact. In 2017, there will be around 500 000 unique cases of people receiving at least one day's reimbursement of compulsory insurance. If on average the duration of the disease in these cases is reduced by four or five days, the delta is already up to EUR 100 million on the total expenditure in the RIZIV budget. Any academic researcher will be able to confirm that measuring the budgetary impact of behavioural effects is difficult to predict. That is why the government has tried to make a realistic assessment. The final expenditure performance may differ from what was budgeted. The ambition is certainly to bring this into force this year. Then my answer to your question No. 23514. For your questions 1 to 4, please refer to the Minister for Employment who is responsible for this. To your question five, I can answer that I do encourage the counsellors to systematically check all entitled persons against the possibility of returning to work, but this intention also includes some nuance. It has been shown that the longer the illness lasts, the less chance a beneficiary is of going back to work. Persons with disability who have been inactive for one or more years have in fact the smallest chance of using their residual capacity in a work resumption. That is why, logically, most attention and resources go to the people who have recently fallen into primary incapacity, in order to enforce both qualitatively and quantitatively the best result. I have to say that it is possible for people who are already at home for a long time to still have a reintegration path, simply by applying to the medical practitioner of the sickness fund. We also see that people sometimes take the step after cancer treatment and the necessary recovery. Especially women who have been affected by breast cancer are sometimes at home for three to five years, now see and do the possibility to re-integrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to urge you to ask the sickness funds to give these figures. They are a very important actor in this whole process of labour reintegration. The least we can expect is that they will deliver those figures to you in a correct and timely manner so that the right analysis can be made. You say that these employment integration jobs have been agreed in the government and that you are still investigating them. I hope this investigation doesn't take too long. I am also prepared to discuss this at any time, to resolve open questions or at least to give answers. However, I have heard a deafening silence about this since this was agreed in the Summer Agreement. That's what worries me a little. It's not that complex. The majority in this committee has already discussed it. It's been discussed with the Cabinet. So, honestly, I don't know where the calf is bound.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u13	We submitted texts more than two months ago. [[We have advice IF and all cenacles go through.]] My texts must, of course, be published in the Belgian Official Journal together with those of Minister Peeters. Further discussions are now under way. They're a little delayed, that can happen. But it's not because it's quiet not to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u14	I'm very glad to hear that. I was also pleased to hear that so many people attend the case management programme in NIDMAR, the institute in Canada. That seems to me to be one of the ways of working multidisciplinaryly. I have a small question to ask, and I would like the answer if you know it. Where will those case managers be? Are those people from the counsellors? I find the verdict you have made very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u15	They'll be on a team with the counseling physician. Or he could be an advisory physician. They're people from the health insurance system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u16	That's a very good evolution. Finally, I would like to make one final observation. I would just like to stress that our response is not primarily about budgetary profit, but rather that this is the final part of the whole mechanism for reintegration plans, to ensure that everyone cooperates correctly, especially the doctors. I have no problem with the fact that these financial revenues are not derived from them and are indicative. However, I hope that the response mechanisms will be put in place effectively as soon as possible, in order to make the whole concept work better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u17	Madam President, Minister, a study based on nearly four million cases has recently been published in the journal of the American Association for Cancer Research. According to the Commission, women working at night for several years are at a 19 per cent higher risk of developing cancer than others. These are mainly skin, breast and gastrointestinal cancer. Specifically, the researchers determined that night work increased the risk of breast cancer by 3.3% per five-year period. Minister, have you been aware of this study? If so, what is your analysis? Do you feel that measures can or should be taken as a result of this new finding?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u18	Madam President, my colleague, although your question is a priori about primary risk prevention and worker health surveillance, matters that fall within the competence of Minister Peeters, I have submitted this study for analysis to the Federal Occupational Risk Agency, Fedris, which is responsible for indemnifying occupational diseases. On 14 October 2014, the Scientific Council of the Occupational Diseases Fund had already asked itself the question of the link between breast cancer and atypical working hours, i.e. night and break work, on the basis of the conclusions of a European Commission study on occupational cancers. The study concludes: "The average relative risk does not appear to exceed 1.2. There appears to be a 3% increase in the risk of breast cancer for each five-year increase in night and break work. The most affected professions are nurses and navigating agents." Studies that quantified the duration of work performed observed increases in risk only after very long periods of exposure, i.e. about twenty or thirty years. Current evidence does not allow a scientifically sound recommendation to include or exclude breast cancer in the list of compensable occupational diseases. However, the scientific evidence of a potential causal association between night work and breast cancer and the extensive literature on other adverse health effects caused by break work clearly argue for the introduction of primary prevention in the direction of limiting the number of years of work performed in night work. For the Scientific Council, the issue remains open for long-term exhibitions. In particular, the risks are not negligible (3%) and vigilance remains to be exercised. This problem is indeed worrying. That is why I sent a letter to the Fedris Management Committee in order to refer to the competent authorities (NCT and SPF Emploi) for the primary prevention of occupational risks. Fedris is competent for tertiary prevention. Mr Flahaux, I invite you to ask the Minister of Employment about follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you. This is an important and interesting subject. I'm a feminist more than convinced. I have always considered that there must be equality in terms of work and wages. However, the observations you and the American Association for Cancer Research show that there is a higher prevalence of night work among women than among men. You mentioned breast cancer in particular. I also mentioned skin and gastrointestinal cancers. Minister, a time limitation on the number of years of night work could indeed be a solution. Nevertheless, I would not like to see women being referred back to their households to caricature. Certainly not! However, measures can be taken that take this element into account. This is a subject that I am passionate about and on which I will return, particularly to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I will put my questions very briefly. I have submitted written questions to obtain figures on medical and administrative checks on disabled persons abroad. A number of data could not be provided to me. It was therefore not possible to collect aggregated data on medical checks and to pass them on to you, in your capacity as a competent minister. In your reply, you yourself indicated that data relating to administrative checks are not part of an automatic data recording. That seems to me to be a serious problem. After all, proper control of beneficiaries, including those abroad, is the basis for the legitimacy of all branches of our social security. The lack of data does not allow consistent monitoring of the effectiveness of these controls. That is why I have the following questions. In what way do the sickness funds and the RIZIV then check the operation and efficiency of the medical and administrative checks of foreign legal persons, by the insurance institutions? Are measures planned to improve this data collection and its analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u21	Madam President, Mr Spooren, the data you asked for in your written questions are indeed not available by means of automatic data recording by insurance institutions. This does not mean that no efforts are being made to organise a proper check on Belgian invalidity benefits, who live or reside abroad. For example, on receipt of the administrative and medical reports requested, insurance institutions shall take the necessary steps and carry out the necessary checks to update the rights of the insured person concerned. This update may take the form of a suspension, an extension or the end of the duty. These reports shall be added to the insured person's administrative and medical records. At present, the administrative and medical checks of those entitled to reside abroad are carried out under the same conditions as those required for those entitled to reside in Belgium. In particular, a form is requested to be completed or completed by the municipal authorities of their place of residence. This procedure has so far been assessed as reasonably efficient by insurance institutions, although they regularly report that, taking into account international realities, practical problems sometimes arise, such as a long lead time for receiving the requested information or its quality. In addition, the insurance institutions also carry out an administrative check once a year of those entitled to reside abroad, by direct contacting the foreign social security institutions through a European E2015 document. Through this document, foreign institutions can inform insurance institutions about the administrative situation as well as the socio-professional situation of those entitled under their jurisdiction. Finally, decisions on recognition or renewal of incapacity for work are taken on the basis of medical information supplied by the competent foreign institutions, in application of strict procedures laid down in European Regulation No. 883/2004. It follows that the persons entitled, residing abroad, are subject to two complementary types of checks which allow insurance institutions to obtain and analyse information in order to update the rights of the persons concerned. Consequently, and subject to practical problems inherent in international exchanges, it can be said that administrative and medical checks, organized by insurance institutions, function relatively well. The improvement of medical and administrative checks is a subject that comes back regularly, even during the discussions between the RIZIV and the insurance institutions. Several slopes are also being examined today at the level of the RIZIV, which will also be submitted to the insurance institutions. For example, consideration is being given to making greater use of the possibilities offered by Regulation No. 883/2004 allowing Member States to call the insured persons on their territory for an investigation. With regard to the registration and collection of statistical data on administrative and medical control applications, the RIZIV will shortly present this problem to the insurance institutions in order to examine jointly the necessity and, above all, its feasibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u22	Madam Minister, you say that a great deal can happen at European level. I agree. Commissioner Thyssen has recently taken a number of initiatives in this area following the submission of my question. I think it is important that our Belgian institutions link their cart to that. This applies to all people living abroad but within the EU. In reply to my written question on figures, I read that this group accounts for the majority of beneficiaries abroad. Perhaps there are a number of things in these European mechanisms that can be applied by our Belgian institutions to beneficiaries who reside in non-EU countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u23	Madam Minister, I recently had a question on the right to a sickness benefit for those working after the age of 65 converted into a written question. You gave me the answer that anyone who becomes unfit for work after 65 years can take up his or her pension in order to provide livelihoods. Your reasoning is that, in order to provide an employed person with an income, solidarity is called upon, whereby the active population pays social security contributions, which are used, among other things, for disability benefits, and should therefore be handled with care. Your answer surprised me. We are doing everything we can to get more people to work, because with more workers, social security can count on more income. This is why the government wants to encourage work and reward work more than not to work through all kinds of measures. Recent pension reforms also aim to reward those who work longer, even after the retirement age has been reached. Above all, we want 65-plussers who can continue to work. However, you state that those who are still at work after 65 years and become unfit for work for more than one month are not entitled to a sickness benefit and that they must claim their pension. I understand that one should be able to impose on a person who is permanently unfit for work to take up his pension, because it cannot be that he is receiving a benefit for years to come when he can take up his pension. For example, that we require an employee over 65 years of age who has to recover six to ten weeks after surgery and who only has a guaranteed wage for one month to take up his or her pension, because he or she still needs two more months to recover, is not at odds with our policy of encouraging as many people as possible to continue working after 65 years? I can't. You can't just retire for a few months. We really want to encourage people to continue working, even if they are over 65 years of age. This is also good in order to continue to pay pensions in view of the ageing population. For some people longer work is also a necessity, for example because they would receive a really low pension or because they are not even entitled to a guarantee of income for the elderly, because they are not even in our country for ten years. It is important for them to be entitled to sickness benefits if they become temporarily unfit for work. Of course, I agree with the argument that we should be careful about granting benefits, but for those who are still at work after 65, that reasoning does not apply, since he or she also contributes to social security. Madam Minister, I have tabled two questions on this subject, one of which is addressed to the Minister for Pensions. I would have liked to know what the Minister of Pensions thinks about this. How does he think people can stay longer at work and how can the problem be solved for them in the event of temporary illness? My second question is addressed to the government and more specifically to you and to your fellow Minister for Pensions. The government agreement has agreed that the right to disability benefits may be opened for those who continue to work after their 65th year. That paragraph is just in the coalition agreement to solve problems in this area. Madam Secretary, would you like to issue a scheme whereby, under certain conditions, a sickness benefit can still be granted? It should be possible for a 65-year-old who, for example, is disabled for two or three months, to receive a sickness benefit for those additional months. If you want to work on this, what conditions would you think should be fulfilled in order to open up the right to such a sickness benefit? Above all, we must make it possible for people to continue to work and therefore not have to retire simply because they happen to be ill for a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u24	Mrs Lanjri, in my answer to Parliament's question No. 2136 I do explain why sickness benefits are refused for those who work after the age of 65 and are disabled for more than one month. In the case of illness after the retirement age, a pension may be granted for the purpose of ensuring its existence. The sixty-five worker who is working has two possibilities when he becomes unfit for work. He may claim his pension and then, when he can return to work, interrupt his pension. It's possible. The performance of the contract of employment will therefore be suspended only during the period of incapacity for work. In the event of termination of the contract of employment, a new contract of employment may be concluded after the incapacity period. In view of the fact that the pension is now being taken up, these activities do not build up any further pension rights. On the other hand, it is also possible to choose whether to retire after all and if one is no longer ill, by means of the system of unlimited additional earnings, to get back to work. In the latter case, pension rights are no longer built up. One then takes his pension, as sixty-five, and may earn unlimited additional earnings, but does not build up any additional pension rights. The first month when one is at home does indeed apply to incapacity for work. If one is longer at home, one then retires, but can then go back to work. If the incapacity for work were to be made possible for a longer period of time, the pension would not be taken up, but a sickness and invalidity allowance would be paid after the age of 65, for more than one month. Well, that would be very confusing, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u25	Madam Minister, it is indeed the intention of people to continue working after 65, and of course they want to build up pension rights. You mention two options, the first of which is to apply for a pension. It does not seem easy to me to ask for something, to suspend it and then to go back to work without building pension rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u26	This is now easier than it used to be, because the pension is calculated when one is 65 years old. So that's doable. In the first month of your illness, you don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u27	For example, if you are ill for six weeks, should you ask for a pension for two weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u28	One can only stand on sickness benefit for a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u29	But in the government agreement, it was agreed that a solution would be sought to open the right to disability benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u30	I give you the answer: that solution was examined, but it now seems too complicated to implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u31	The scheme now envisaged for post-retirement work already existed. However, we had to find arrangements for people who are ill for example two months or six weeks, because there was a problem there. I can see why they wouldn't do that indefinitely. I would still understand that, but we should come up with a system in which people are entitled to sickness benefits, because that is the only way they will continue to build up pension rights. As soon as they take up their pension, they have an income, but no longer build up pension rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u32	You're a swan now, aren't you? People are building up pension rights when they have worked for another full year. If you have received some of these sickness or invalidity benefits, you will still be building up pension rights, because you will also be building up pension rights in sickness and invalidity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u33	But you're saying they'll have to take their pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u34	Yeah, that's right now. In the meantime, however, you want them to be on sickness and invalidity, including for a longer period, for example, three months, six months, nine months, and to continue to build up pension rights, while their pension has already been calculated on the basis of their careers. That's what you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u35	That's right! I understand that a worker can be proposed to retire if he is ill for a long time or is even out of work. However, people who are still healthy and are out of circulation only for a few months, for example because of a ski accident or an operation, should not be said to be no longer entitled to a second or a third month's benefit after their month's guaranteed wage. These people must be entitled to disability benefits, as envisaged in the government agreement. I understand we have to deal with this carefully. It should not be the intention for people to have to live on disability benefits for another five years, so that they may as well retire. I understand that, but you will find everyone, including those who are ill for a short period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u36	This is the existing regulation, which we have already greatly eased by allowing unlimited additional income after 65 years at a cost-effective cost. That's a very interesting slope for 65-plussers. The slope to go skiing after 65 years, I leave it to those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u37	I mentioned the ski accident as an example. There are people who ski at 65 years, but it can also be about something else. One can also break one's leg by falling down a staircase. Even then, a complex operation may have to be carried out, which requires a few months of recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u38	Madam Minister, during the discussion of your policy paper, we discussed in detail the intention to reform the cumulation regime in the context of the progressive resumption of work mentioned in your note. At that time I referred to the unanimous negative opinion of the social partners in the management committee. The employers argued that the scheme proposed by you is more administratively complex and almost out of control. The trade unions pointed to the substantial loss of income for workers on a modest hourly wage. I illustrated the latter with a few examples. For example, I showed that someone with a daily allowance of EUR 52 who is going to work half-time on a gross wage of EUR 1 150 will lose around EUR 175 per month compared to the existing scheme. If that same person starts working two-fifths, he loses 158 euros compared to today. In particular, disabled people who make the effort to start working part-time but have a low hourly wage are severely affected. You were not able to give me a rational explanation of the need for reform at that time either. Nor have you explained why you did not take the concerns of the social partners to heart. I now hear that you would nevertheless have submitted the draft KB to the Council of State for an opinion, hence my questions. In spite of all the objections, will you push through the reform no one wants? What are your motives for this, if any? The whole of your policy of reintegration appears to be failing, while the almost 50 000 people who make that effort every year are now threatened with punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u39	Mrs Kitir, with regard to the reform of Article 230 of the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996, the RIZIV Management Committee did not express its unanimous opinion. The bank of the insurance institutions has abstained. The syndicated bank considered the reform to be detrimental. The reform was too generous for the patronage. We can therefore conclude that opinions were divided. The adjustment of the system was followed by many argus eyes, because one has to take into account a range of different situations of the entitled. That is why we started the study on the basis of some very clearly defined policy principles which I would like to explain to you. As a general rule, the combination of work and sickness benefit is not permitted, except after application to the medical practitioner of the sickness fund. He or she may authorise, under specified conditions, a progressive resumption of work compatible with the health of the person concerned, for a specified purpose. In this case, the benefit may be combined with the salary acquired by the person concerned during the resumption. The sickness fund will take account of the income of the work when determining the amount of the benefit. It is therefore different according to whether one has a small income from work or a large income. At the moment this is done by using a disk system. That disk system is not very transparent and it is not easy to explain how much is left at the end of the month. Because one does not know what income one is going to have, one sometimes does not ask for a resumption of work because of uncertainty, although it is medically possible and despite the personal motivation to work. In other words, people are afraid of losing their benefit and of having less to do with the resumption of work than before. Employers need a lot of data on working hours each month to pass on to the sickness fund. For patients, this means, in their personal perception, a monthly reminder to their employer that they are not ordinary workers but that they are an employee who is also sick. That is why we have reformed this system. There are indeed winners but also losers, if one already has an ongoing consent, who lured the person into an inactivity trap against the current situation with the disk system. The principles are as follows. The system of permitted work must be transparent and explanatory. One must be able to predict what income he or she will have when he or she resumes part-time. The system of permitted activity is made to enlist, if the patient can handle a light work resumption as an attractive option to give a step to a more complete response. If the full successor is not possible, the residual capacity should be able to be used permanently, and the patient should benefit financially from the amount of benefit. We are aiming for a reform that addresses the aforementioned current problems of the disc system but also addresses the tension between disability and full work recovery at any wage or regime, so that current inactivity falls are reduced as much as possible but also ensures that poverty falls are avoided. The Management Committee of the Benefits Service and the Technical Sickness Fund Board have examined the issue on several occasions, supported by the RIZIV Benefits Service and the Finance and Statistics Service. I understand your sighs that undoubtedly have genuine motives behind them. I would therefore like to stress that I would like to approach the issue with the necessary mutual respect, if you have examples and wish to enter into the debate. However, wordings such as "you" cannot give me a rational explanation, and "your whole policy of reintegration appears to fail" lack the necessary nuance and will not help the debate forward. Quite the opposite is true. What we notice is that it is especially much more interesting for people who can only resume one, two or three days. We do know that many people in the past stuck in the 80% or just half-time system if that was interesting for them and the disk system was in their favor, which was not the case for everyone. They were thus much less likely to get on the first stairs or ladder after long periods of incapacity for work. We have tried to remedy this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u40	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I am pleased that you have reached out to us and want to take the debate seriously. I think we share the same concern. If people indicate that they want to work during their illness period, they must be able to do so progressively. I will support all efforts to facilitate their reintegration, let us be clear. You're saying I didn't give you any examples. In my written question, which you could also read, I clearly set the example of someone who will lose EUR 148 a month compared to the current situation. I don't hear an answer to that. Nor am I reassured by the way in which you will guarantee that the 50 000 people who are now in the system will not go into decline. You say in your argument that you want to ensure transparency. I am, of course, in favour of that. I want to support that. But if you say that the current non-transparent disk system makes people unwilling to work because of the uncertainty, you should not create a new system that offers even more uncertainty and uncertainty. I can give you several examples of people who are going to decline from the current situation. In the press, you responded to our response. However, I do not think that the example you gave there is entirely correct. After all, you forget to deduct the personal contribution of 13.07 %. In the example you gave, the person concerned will deteriorate. If you insist on examples, Madam Minister, I am quite prepared to email you some more. My main concern is that people who make the effort to resume work will be punished by the new regulations. That is completely ignorant of the objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u41	Madam President, Madam Minister, in its judgment of 20 December 2017, the European Court of Justice finds that Uber is a transport undertaking covered by the free movement of services applicable to the transport sector as provided for in Article 58 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. According to Professor Jorens, the question is whether the employees are employees or self-employed, a question that depends on national law. He stated: "It is therefore expected that a lot of court cases will emerge before the national courts on the status of persons working for an electronic platform. You can assume that what the Uber Court set out also applies to other electronic platforms, with all the legal qualification problems associated with them. What is clear now is that Uber is a transport company, because the professor further says: "The use of the reservation application is therefore not a separate economic activity, but ensures that drivers come into contact with users and therefore transport is possible. Both are thus inextricably linked. In addition, Uber controls various relevant aspects of an urban transport service: price but also minimum safety requirements, accessibility of the transport supply and so on. Uber thus exercises control over the factors that are economically relevant to the transport service offered within the platform. Therefore, Uber cannot be regarded as mere mediator between drivers and passengers. Drivers operating within the Uber platform do not carry out their own activities that would exist independently of that platform. No doubt, after the judgment, you immediately instructed your administration to examine the impact of the judgment on the social security situation of employment for this transport company. The Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 revising the Decree-Law on social security for workers states in Article 3 that the social security scheme of the worker shall be extended to persons as provided for in Article 5. My question is therefore whether the impact of the judgment was examined as regards the social security situation of taxi workers in our country, in particular in connection with Article 3 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u42	Madam President, Mrs Kitir, as you rightly say, this statement concerns only the finding that Uber is a transport undertaking covered by the free movement of services applicable to the transport sector as provided for in Article 58 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The question then arises as to whether these services are also transport within the meaning of Articles 3, 5a and 5b of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969. In order to verify this, a detailed examination of the specific circumstances by the competent inspection authority should be carried out first. As the aforementioned group of companies around Uber is currently the subject of ongoing proceedings with the judicial authorities, our inspection services must at this stage comply with the teachings they receive from the auditorate or auditorate general. They may, pending further education and without the express consent of the competent magistrates, make no further investigation, let alone disclose elements of the file. So we're back here with a catch-22. Uber is in court and therefore our services cannot carry out the necessary investigations. In particular, they should be able to examine whether this is covered by Articles 3, 5a and 5b of the 1969 Royal Decree. As you rightly pointed out, additional investigative actions at the RSZ are necessary to decide whether or not the aforementioned articles are applicable. I hope that they will soon be allowed to do so. There is a great deal of confusion among those who work for Uber about the status they fall under and the rights they can derive from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand that it will depend on the labour inspector or your services to carry out an investigation. We'll wait and see. I certainly hope it doesn't take too long. I will ask you again about this very soon. As you said yourself, the uncertainty in this area must be removed quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u44	Mrs Gerkens is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u45	Madam President, I asked two questions about the same subject, one of which was to Mrs Demir. I will say a little bit later about the political aspect concerning disabled people. Minister, as you know, work and training are essential elements for the integration and participation of people with disabilities in society. The employment adjustment contracts, which are discussed here, are fully involved in this process, with social rights up to a few months ago. On October 15, 2017, your government issued a Royal Order ending the social security coverage of training allowances, with retroactive effect from October 1, 2017. This means that there will no longer be social security contributions paid by the employer or by the worker. Persons with disabilities will receive a taxable wage but thus no longer have social rights. This will have an impact on the future pension. If these disabled persons have dependent children, they will only be entitled to guaranteed family benefits, which are less advantageous than those paid to employees and self-employed persons. Similarly, in the case of leave, there is no longer any entitlement to paid leave or to holiday pay. If they are ill, no guaranteed wages will be paid and they will not be entitled to sickness benefit. To do so, they should contribute to a mutuality, such as the independents. We are well aware that this already fragile, or even precarious, public will not have enough means to pay a personal contribution in this context. With this royal decree, people who are currently under a contract of professional adaptation (CAP) are also severely injured since they have undertaken with the assurance to benefit from social rights and they are now being unilaterally amended their contract. In my question, tabled for some time, I was looking at a carte blanche which referred to the enormous difficulties faced by this particular audience. It is already not easy for people with disabilities to know the laws, the rules and the extent of the legislation that is being enacted. Of course, we do not agree with the content of this royal decree. Why did you abolish the social security liability of persons under an occupational adjustment contract and, by that decision, have to abolish all their social rights when they are under this type of contract? Have you sought the advice of the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities before making this provision? Has he given an opinion on this provision? Secondly, I would like to know how many people with disabilities are currently under this type of vocational adjustment contract. What will be the impact in terms of savings for the years 2018 and 2019 as a result of this provision? Finally, my last point also concerns your colleague Mrs Demir. Belgium had endorsed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which committed itself to guaranteeing their rights and eliminating all forms of discrimination against them. Unfortunately, the few measures taken with regard to persons with disabilities are not in line with the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. This Thursday, in plenary session, we will have a provision on the ARR (Income Replacement Allowance) and the conditions of residence. Unfortunately, it is still restrictive measures that give less rights and not more rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u46	Madam President, some of the questions were addressed to Secretary of State Demir. In view of the fact that she was on maternity leave at the time and in order to manage things coherently, we have brought together the questions and the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u47	That's not a problem for me, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u48	Mr Delizée, the aim of the Royal Decree was to repeal Article 3, §§ 6 and 7 of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969, adopted in implementation of the Law of 27 June 1969 amending the Decree-Law of 28 December 1944 on social security for workers. As a reminder, Article 3 was intended to assimilate certain categories of persons who are not bound by an employment contract into social security. Paragraph 6 of the Act provides that the application of the Act shall be extended to persons with disabilities who are bound either by a special apprenticeship contract for the vocational rehabilitation of persons with disabilities or by a contract for vocational training or rehabilitation, as provided for in article 17 of the Act of 16 April 1963 on the social rehabilitation of persons with disabilities and to persons and centres with whom they have concluded the contract. Paragraph 7 of the Act provides that the application of the Act shall be extended to persons engaged in an accelerated vocational training contract provided for in articles 96 et seq. of the Royal Decree of 20 December 1963 on employment and unemployment and to the centres with which they have concluded the contract. For trainees who receive social security status as part of their training, the consequences are minimal. They focus on annual holidays. Most of these trainees already had social status. These were invalids, indemnified under the legislation on accidents at work or unemployed as part of their training. This status already gave them social rights. For them, this adjustment has virtually no influence, mainly because the employers of these trainees have so far contributed to social security for an amount which was the subject of the dispute on the basis of the reform. The employers of these trainees have so far contested that social security contributions would be due on the amount paid by them to the trainees, as the trainees did not obtain any additional benefit. It was therefore the subject of this dispute that formed the basis of the reform, mainly because it had been found in the meantime that the amended regime was in conflict with the European Council Directive 2000/68 of 27 November 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. I can therefore tell you that this adjustment has not been made for budgetary considerations, as you think, but on the contrary. As mentioned above, the trainees did not obtain any benefit from the declaration with the National Social Security Office, whereas, assuming that the contributions would have been due, there would be some income. In the past, a series of contracts were submitted to social security on the basis of this provision, although this was not really the purpose. These are persons who are the subject of such an occupational adjustment contract and who do not receive any allowance. We never had these people in our collimator. Access to social security is not left to everyone's discretion and is governed by specific rules. We are open to an exchange of views, but this requires the elaboration of a specific provision that excludes discrimination against other target groups. In other words, either everyone is subject or no one. At the end of the journey, they will be able to benefit from certain advantages, which was not the case in the past. These include the benefits of integration. The persons concerned will be entitled to income in the event of illness during the period of the contract, during the leave or during the suspension of the contract, which was not the case in the past. They also had problems with this because their compensation was interrupted. Finally, a significant number of benefits have been maintained and are not related to any adjustment. This adaptation was prepared in consultation with the Agence pour une Vie de Qualité (AviQ), a Walloon organization that you know well and which was first and foremost interested in it. I recognize that my answer is a little technical, but there are several advantages to this reform. Previously, these people were not really treated like others by social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u49	Madam Minister,...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u50	Madam President, I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u51	Madam Secretary, there are two further questions. I shall have Mr Delizée briefly replicated first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer that I will read carefully because the chronology aspects of the articles were very technical. When I listened to you, I thought of the definition of the technocrat of Coluche, that when we have finished hearing the answer, we no longer understand the question we asked! That's kind of how I feel after your answer. On the one hand, members of the sector deplore the social rights lost as a result of this reform. On the other hand, you say that a directive is intended to exclude discrimination when people with disabilities enjoy a system of positive discrimination, I would say. I therefore very much hope that this issue will be re-examined. On the other hand, Madam Minister, you have not answered my question as to whether or not the Conseil Supérieur National des Personnes Handicapées, competent in this type of case, has given us a notice that will inform us of the position of the sector, in all regions. So I'm still a little bit hungry. I will try to understand the legal reasoning and analyze it before returning to you or to Mrs Demir. I don't think your answer fits into reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u53	Madam Minister, we recently learned, through a study by SD Worx, that absenteeism due to illness had greatly increased in our country. This increase is about 35 per cent over the past 10 years. From an average of 9.4 days' absence in 2008, we have now increased to an average of 12.1 days' absence. We believe that this increase is not insignificant and reflects a certain evolution in our society. The study nevertheless relativizes things, stating that although absences are longer, Belgian workers are not basically more likely to be absent. Minister, we know that this government has undertaken many reforms to help those affected by this phenomenon return to work. We would like to take stock here. How do you analyze and explain the increase in this study? In addition to absenteeism due to illness, what are the main causes of professional absenteeism in our country? In which areas of professional activity is absenteeism due to illness most present? How can this be explained?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u54	Mrs Galant, you are referring to a study by SD Worx on absenteeism due to sickness of employees in Belgium. The study shows an increase in absenteeism due to illness over the past ten years. The main reason given in the study is the increase in long-term absenteeism. These figures correspond to the figures available to INAMI. Statistics on the period of primary incapacity for work (a period of illness which does not exceed one year) and the period of invalidity show a long-standing increase in the period of absence. However, a distinction should be made in this respect. The sickness insurance does not know the number of days of sickness for cases that end during the period of the guaranteed wage. For the data for this period, I refer you to the Minister of Employment, Mr Peeters. Statistics provided by INAMI show that different causes may be responsible for the increase in absenteeism. First of all, an ageing labour force in large numbers increases the number of people with long-term incapacity for work. Risk increases with age. In this respect, we can refer to several elements: the ageing of the population, but also the increase in the participation rate of women in the labour market up to a higher age than before, and various measures such as the phasing out of early retirement schemes and the extension of working careers which result in a higher employment rate at a later age. Musculoskeletal disorders and mental health problems are becoming increasingly important as causes of long-term absenteeism We find that the number of incapacity for work is increasing more strongly among the unemployed than among the employed. It's strange. In addition, the duration of the disease among the unemployed is much longer than among the employed. It's still strange. Often, there are several factors that cause long-term incapacity for work. Not only are there medical reasons, but it also happens, for example, that working conditions or the situation at home lead to a long absence. It is therefore important that we have a better understanding of it. For example, a study is underway on the combined pressure, i.e. the pressure of the work combined with the relational pressure or at home. On the basis of international literature, we suspect that there may be a link between the tasks performed in the private sphere and the incidence of diseases such as burn out. That is why we have launched a study to clarify the knowledge on combined pressure in Belgium. The study will be followed by IDEA Consult and its conclusions will be available this fall. A project to develop an integrated policy for the prevention of work-related mental illnesses is also under way. Finally, I draw your attention to another study. The centre of expertise of INAMI is developing, in collaboration with the ULB, a mathematical model which makes it possible to assess more accurately the impact of demographic changes and economic measures taken in other sectors of social security on expenditure related to disability and incapacity for work. I am obviously concerned about the increase in the number of long-term patients over the last ten years. However, we can see that the measures taken slow the increase. This means that the number is not decreasing, but that the increase is less. With regard to the duration of absence during the period of primary incapacity, after a period of systematic increase from 2016 onwards, we find a stabilization in the length of absence in the working population. For persons with disabilities for more than a year, the latest data show that there were more people with disabilities in December 2016 than previously estimated. Starting in January 2017, for the first time, there is a net break in the trend. There are fewer people with disabilities than was estimated. The modernization of the medical certificate of incapacity for work, which must now also include an end-of-illness date and which I introduced at the beginning of this legislature, has a moderating effect on the number of incapacity for work and a catalytic effect on exits. Through our measures, we want to prevent the absence due to the disease and allow a sustainable resumption of work through reintegration routes. For these trips, we focus on the ability to work instead of looking at what they can no longer do. My objective here is not to reduce the number of long-term patients in the statistics but to give those who want and can work the opportunity to get back on track. I am convinced that being active is good for self-esteem, provides recognition, promotes social contacts and, in short, makes people less ill. Through studies, we also seek preventive means, such as secondary prevention in the case of burn out. We also have pilot projects within Fedris, especially for musculoskeletal diseases, such as back pain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u55	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We will follow the studies in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u56	Minister, we still have two short questions. Mr Daerden guarantees me to be brief, synthetic and to the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u57	Minister, the physical disability pension, which depends on you and the Minister of Pensions, is for employees with long-term illness who are placed on a pension for physical incapacity. As this can affect them at an early age, they receive only a very modest pension because of their incomplete career. If I understand correctly, you and your colleague intend to reform the system. In fact, serious illnesses are now better treated, so that some former employees who have been placed on a pension for physical incapacity could return to work. You want to change the device. If it is in the interests of workers and sick people, why not? Your aim would therefore be to replace this pension with an invalidity allowance, implying a transfer of State charges to social security. I come to my questions, Madam Minister. Is this project on the table? If so, how do you envisage funding this allowance? Will it be financed by contributions? At what rate? Who would pay them? Will this not have an impact on federated entities and local authorities? If your intention is to bring back to work the person who would feel the envy and would be able to do so, when it has been declared unfit at a very young age, would it not be appropriate to introduce, on a voluntary basis, a pension bracketed scheme? Finally, what is the state of consultation with workers' representatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u58	Mr Daerden, the aim of the reform is to replace the system of pensions for physical incapacity with a system of incapacity for work similar to the private one. This starts with the quick scan and continues with the reintegration routes, possible throughout the worker's life according to his remaining abilities. The current system of management of incapacity for work in the public sector does not allow for medical assessment and timely support of the sick worker. In addition, the focus is on controlling absenteeism rather than preventing risks to citizens. The staff member finds himself isolated for long periods, sometimes developing other pathologies, in particular psychological ones, due to this exclusion, to finally be removed from the ad vitam æternam system with the pension for physical incapacity after a few years. You're talking about a voluntary return of pensioners. For me, this reform of the pension for physical incapacity is above all an opportunity to put in place an effective prevention of occupational risks and to introduce reintegration routes similar to those of the private sector, based on an assessment of the remaining capacities, long before the pension is paid. It is clear that, on the basis of the remaining capacity, pensioners should at least have access to rehabilitation routes, which is not the case at present. Before that, you have to stop the flow of pension entries. This system is also disastrous for the people concerned. From a financial point of view, we have undertaken a specification with the University of Antwerp to calculate the employer contribution rate necessary to cover the cost of disability. Many technical groups have come together to form and share their views. This reform is under discussion with other levels of power, since the reform also has an impact, particularly on the statutes. Moreover, even if each entity is responsible for its status, in the framework of the consultation, the ideal would be to have the same criteria for managing prevention and, above all, reintegration. The case went to the concertation committee last week. The consultation will continue within the ad hoc committees in the event of the effective abolition of the pension for physical incapacity. What was the problem? We've done a lot of calculations. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation also asks us for the calculations for teachers. We have not yet received the figures, which makes simulations difficult. When we do not have the figures, we cannot announce the modalities of a reform. Just as you are being questioned, I also receive a lot of questions from people who have been pensioned very young by this system of incapacity for work. They receive pensions of only a few hundred euros: 350, 400 or 500. These people are therefore dependent on their potential partner. Without a partner, their situation is even worse because they are then close to a level of poverty. For me, it's not right! This system is not good, except perhaps for those who are a few months away from retirement. It is still believed that public servants receive a very high pension. However, an incapacity pension is calculated in proportion to the career, so that in most cases it is at a very, very low level, especially in the case of a young civil servant, without many years of service. Moreover, such a pension scheme will never benefit from increase measures, subject to indexation. At the age of 65, when these persons are actually pensioners, the amount of their pension will be that of the minimum pension because only the years in which they worked allowed them to contribute to the formation of their pension and not their invalidity pension. This is problematic because, again, these people are penalized because of their illness. I believe that this system is harmful and I am fully open to discussion in order to remedy this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u59	Minister, I would like to join you at the end of your speech. That's what I was talking about. If it is to improve the situation of young pensioners who actually have a very low pension, and therefore very low incomes and livelihoods, but who nevertheless have the ability to return to work more suited to their situation, even on a part-time basis, a solution must be found. Maybe we could look for her together. The proposed system raises questions of budgetary transfer from the state to federated entities and social security. There is also the problem of the path of reintegration, the weaknesses and perverse effects of which have already been discussed here. In addition, your reform includes a whole series of unknowns about the jobs included in this path that will follow a person who has been appointed to a specific position. Will his reintegration take place in the public service or in the private sector? In short, many issues are raised. I am sure that we will have the opportunity to discuss this again, and I am pleased to hear the response of the ad hoc committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u60	Mr. President, Minister, you recently received a petition from Francophone and Dutch-speaking family movements and several women's rights organizations dealing with maternity leave. Currently, incapacity for work occurring within six weeks of delivery is converted into maternity leave. In doing so, they see their postnatal leave days reduced. This is not a new development, but there is a demand for reform. Minister, what are you going to do to put an end to this form of discrimination? Is the current situation still in line with EU legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u61	Mr Daerden, I answered a similar question in plenary on 8 March. I don't know if you were there, but in my answer, I made it clear that maternity rest is a period of rest to protect the child's mother. Where this protection measure coincides with a period of incapacity for work, the protection measure shall have priority. However, when a woman is unable to work prior to delivery, it is possible to extend the postnatal leave by one week if, during the six weeks preceding delivery, the pregnant worker has been incapacitated for work on an uninterrupted basis as a result of an illness or accident. The Belgian legislation on maternity leave complies with the 1992 European Directive on the protection of pregnant and newly pregnant workers, but it should be made clear that when it comes to the protection of vulnerable mothers, it is not only necessary to take account of maternity leave, but also of the position of pregnant women and the obstacles preventing them from participating in the labour market. At European level, consciences have awakened on this subject. The European Commission has launched a proposal on the balance between private and professional life for parents and co-parents. This proposal is being analysed by all the Member States of the European Union, and thus by Belgium as well. As part of this overall exercise, thematic leave such as parental leave will also have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic847x.u62	Madam Minister, as I understand it, we will see how the European Commission will evolve in its thinking. In addition, you are open to changing our national legislation. As you may have seen, we have tabled a bill to anticipate developments. I hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss this again in the context of the tabling of this proposal.
