ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u2	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, the decision made this morning by the small ministerial committee in favour of the choice of the American fighter aircraft confirms more than a proverb..., a saying illustrating the action of your government since you took up your duties: "What Bart De Wever wants, the Michel government executes it!" Prime Minister, we expected your government to take on the European dimension of this issue. We expected a Prime Minister, who said he was still willing to do so on the European project, to finally let all European partners know that the time had come, in the international context we know, for Europe to structure its defence vision. For there is no European defence project without the development of a European armaments project. That is why the French proposal deserved to be taken into consideration; You swept it away with a back of your hand under the false legal arguments. Yesterday, in committee, I was able to demonstrate that the legal possibility exists to put an end to the procedure initiated by the present government. Indeed, it was necessary to agree to put an end to this procedure in order to rework on other bases. Clearly, there was a need to change parameters and not to continue the process of purchasing aircraft as it was undertaken to give itself the time to the European vision of this issue. You didn't want it, Prime Minister. You did not want it because the extreme nationalist right of your government is anti-European, made this choice and imposed it on you. That is why today you may no longer have the opportunity to meet Mr Macron with the same favours and with the same sympathy because, once again, with a dossier of this importance, Belgium is turning its back on its European ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u3	Mr. President, Prime Minister, this is the end of a long series of which I have already had the opportunity to say that I did not like the scenario. There is neither happy end nor surprise, but bad news for Europe that comes at the worst moment for it. It is also the triumph of the N-VA. I would like to ask you three additional questions. We heard that we would do a gold case and that this plane would be poached on conditions that no one else in the world could get. Why? Either, it's a plane at the end of the series that nobody wants anymore. I guess not. That's a question I'm asking myself. Either, its real price will be far beyond the advertised price. This is what happens in all countries that have acquired the F-35 today. All sound the alarm to say that budgets are exploding. Either, it's dumping. It would be a way to lock up the European fighter aircraft market. Either, you may also have a special relationship with President Trump. Anyway, you'll explain it to us. You will tell us why we have a prize that no one has received internationally. This is an important, central question. As a Member of Parliament, I have the right to something other than laughter about it! You said at the press conference that there would be EUR 600 million in savings and that this would be used to support the Belgian defence industry. Will this be possible in the light of European rules? Does this not distort the market since it was not included in the specifications? Finally, how will you explain your decision to President Macron?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister: "Europe must not be a follower of America. We must have our own strategy for tomorrow's geopolitical challenges." That is what you said, Prime Minister, a month ago, in the margins of a United Nations meeting between two selfies between Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron. Yet, after the very long technical meeting that we had yesterday in your absence, the first conclusion we have drawn is that this choice that will commit our country for decades, for several generations, this choice that will commit our country for billions of euros, is above all a political choice. This choice will, of course, affect Belgian defence, European defence and the state budget. We have the answer today: your political choice is N-VA, an N-VA 100% Eurosceptic, a N-VA 100% Atlanticist, an N-VA that wants to buy American to kill European defence in the egg, an N-VA that wants to buy American by opting for an airplane – and that's a big deal – that doesn't fly and whose Pentagon Himself doubts technical capabilities, an N-VA that wants to buy American by supporting the Trump administration and strengthening our dependence on Americans in these troubled times when the worrying statements are coming. Prime Minister, my questions are simple. Why has your government not announced the end of this market to include it in a European logic? Why did your government not, at any time – and it is not for lack of having claimed it throughout the last few months during which we have been following this file, Mr. Miller – want to hear or question the federated entities? It gives the strange impression that when the interests and jobs of Francophones are at stake, it no longer matters to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u5	Prime Minister, you have therefore opted for the F-35. What a surprise! What a surprise! From the beginning of the procedure, we knew very well that the US, masters of NATO, imposed on us this choice of the F-35. During this long procedure, we knew that the dice were punctured. Now we come to this choice. It's the F-35. What a surprise, Prime Minister! In football, there's fake games. In politics, there are tailor-made tenders like the one you made for the F-35. There is an even more serious saying of NATO, it is the very fact of having to invest 15 billion in death devices, a decision which you have postulated until after the communal elections because, indeed, it is not very popular as a measure. We still see it today in Le Soir. A poll indicates that the majority of the population in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders is against the F-35. We still have to remember this reality. This F-35 will not be used to defend our territory. This F-35 will be used to carry out actions abroad, around the world, and to drop bombs, including nuclear bombs! Prime Minister, there is still something that needs to be explained. You don't have any money for pensions. You have to work up to 67 years for a lower pension, but you have 15 billion to invest in the F-35 that kill! You don't have money to fight poverty. The level of the Belgian population below the poverty line has just reached the 15.9% record, but you have 15 billion to buy F-35s that kill! You don't have money to save the climate or to invest in public transport. You've reduced the SNCB's allocation by $3 billion and you have a future management contract that's going to kill the rail, but you've got $15 billion to buy F-35s that kill! You don't have any money for health care. Every year, 900,000 Belgians postpone medical care for lack of money, but you have 15 billion to buy F-35s that kill! I only have two questions. Are there no other social and environmental emergencies to invest $15 billion in the F-35? Secondly, how can you justify the nuclear option of these F-35s which is not said but very real?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, the debate has been going on for years, but I would like to ask you one more time to review your decision. I want to give you seven reasons why buying the F-35 is a bad decision. She's biased. She's unnecessary. She's not rational. The procedure is unreliable. There is not enough fair competition. It goes against the European interest. People's taxpayers' money is not being spent wisely. Prime Minister, withdraw this decision. Colleagues, we see here the prototype of a tunnel vision. After all, despite this unreliable procedure, despite the fact that three of the five candidates dropped out, despite the fact that we know that relevant studies have been withheld by the army top, you are going to continue with that decision to purchase the F-35, Prime Minister. In other words, this is no longer rational. Moreover, the purchase itself is actually unnecessary, because there are already enough fighter planes in Europe. We should have specialized to excel. We should also have invested at European level, because we can say that we want to make Europe great, but that requires a self-awareness, which requires pride, which requires faith in the development of our own European security policy. Colleagues, this American purchase is contrary to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u7	Mr President, this is a serious matter! Prime Minister, this morning, your government has implemented key commitments, set out in the policy statement, to military reinvestment. This is the term "reinvestment" that must be used. These reinvestments relate to the three components (Earth, Sea, Air) of our national and Atlantic defence. They are intended to ensure the safety of our military on mission, of course, but also - and we should not forget too much - that of our fellow citizens, in a global environment that is increasingly threatening. No one can dispute this in this assembly. The environment is increasingly threatening the democratic states to which we are committed and whose sustainability we want to ensure, as some of us in this House do. Our majority wanted these files, particularly the F-16 replacement, to be dealt with in a robust, transparent and effective manner. Not only has this been the case - unlike the past - but in addition, Prime Minister, you have responded to the request of several of our parliamentary colleagues by adding a desire for transparency vis-à-vis Parliament. This led us yesterday to a rather special meeting. That was stressed. Mr. Gilkinet, do you have a problem? No? You're making signs. Maybe you're hugging someone behind me? Prime Minister, I think this will be of interest to all of our parliamentary colleagues. Yesterday's sitting was special, I agree, but I think it will be a landmark in parliamentary history, because it will serve as an example to reflect on a better relationship between Parliament and government for future issues of the same type. You have made an act that will be part of parliamentary history. Mr. Hellings, I thought you'd disagree. Only, sir, even you, you recognized the relevance of those who worked yesterday. I'm grateful for that. This proves the intellectual honesty that characterizes you. If anyone thinks that I have been excessive in my remarks, I ask any parliamentarian (...) with as much openness as we knew yesterday. It didn't exist in the history of the country!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u8	We have to conclude, Mr. Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u9	I'll close, Mr. President. I do not take up the various aspects. Some have made the news, now that the decision has been made. I come to the question. Let me at least develop the thread of my reasoning, otherwise I will not end up with the question. Prime Minister, your government's decision makes it possible to respect our international agreements. It ensures our country's credibility on the international stage and participates in the military security of the Belgian and European territories. How, Prime Minister, will we negotiate the best (...) [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u10	It's okay, you're not here to push me back!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u11	Go on, Mr. Miller!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u12	How, after hearing the explanations yesterday, will we negotiate the best possible economic returns on all acquisition files, with the SPF Economy and regional entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u13	Prime Minister, citizens will be able to judge. On the one hand, this dossier contains the government, which decides to opt for the F-35. On the other hand there is the sp.a, we who have always stated that the best solution was to fly with the F-16 for six years longer. I will put these two choices side by side on three points. Firstly, the technical problems that the F-35 still has. The American Court of Auditors has said that there are 263 deficiencies. The Pentagon says this plane is performing suboptimally. With our solution, we could have tested this first. So I have the following question to ask you, Prime Minister: are you sure that you have not decided today to buy a flying Fyra? Secondly, the budget. At the press conference, I followed the rosy presentation. It looks like we're in the financial heavens on earth. However, Canada has decided to waive the F-35 because the costs are falling apart. The Americans have decided to order one third less planes because their budget cannot carry the full purchase. In Denmark, which has already bought these aircraft, the Court of Auditors says that the prices were heavily underestimated. The British Parliament has published a report stating that, frankly, it is not possible to calculate how much it will cost. President Trudeau said this plane is a flying credit card. I'm adding that the code is with Lockheed Martin. I have the following question for you, Prime Minister. What measures have you taken to prevent a budgetary derailment? Finally, Prime Minister, you lack an historic opportunity! You chose today to turn our air force into the sub-contractor of Trump's Air Force. And that was when you had the chance to be the architect of a European defence. Our solution would have allowed you not to spend a poor EUR 600 million on European defence, but the full investment package. Mr Prime Minister, how is it possible that you are abdicating on one of the points I thought you were a firmly convinced European? How will you explain this to Macron and Merkel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday the Minister for Defence explained to the United Committees for Defence and Business. That happened before the government's decision. I think that is a positive point. I also received a concrete answer from Colonel Van Pee yesterday to all my questions. That is the first time since I have been in Parliament that I have really received answers. I have noted, however, that out of the 36 Members who had to be present, there were seven, plus two members of small groups who are not members of that committee, namely Mr Van Hees and myself. The biggest callers at the beginning of that meeting were in the meeting behind closed doors stealth, invisible. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez of the PS, Mr De Vriendt van Groen, invisible, Mr Van der Maelen, who gave away a perfect imitation of Fidel Castro at the beginning of the sitting, is absent at the sitting behind closed doors. Maybe he was checking his e-mails. After all, we never know if new information will come in. This is the fake opposition that some left-wing parties have here: shouting very loudly when the cameras are running and stealth is absent during a meeting behind closed doors. Did everything go perfectly? No, definitely not. We could have done the same exercise we did yesterday in connection with the handbook. After all, it is the rules in the handbook that determine who the winner is. Have we chosen the best plane? No, we have applied the rules of the handbook. That's something completely different. So it wasn't perfect. I have also noted that there is a form of insidious decision-making through the targets set by NATO. I think that is a democratic problem, because in the end our level of ambition has evolved from peacekeeping and security to hostile air missions, without any parliamentary debate. I would like to ask a question about ministerial responsibility. Minister Vandeput will also be stealth as of 1 January, and we can therefore no longer hold him accountable in Parliament. Other parliaments, however, still call former ministers to account. Who's gonna follow up on that file? Will you do that, since you supervised it, Prime Minister? Who will bear the political responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our F-16 pilots are internationally renowned for their expertise, professionalism, precision. Also in many international missions, our F-16 pilots have shown their added value in recent years. Investing in the future of defence and air combat capabilities is therefore essential and is a cornerstone of the strategic vision for our defence. The government has taken the initiative to come up with a new approach, an innovative approach and a strong approach, to conduct a market survey. Allowing the market to purchase such a device may have a positive effect on pricing. That this is a good way of working proves the international interest there is to copy our approach. Yesterday we debated the dossier again for hours, first in public session for a long time, then behind closed doors. There we received in detail information from the Minister of Defence and from the ACAP team. Just as the Minister explained, some members were shouting and fetching in the media, Mr Van der Maelen, about a lack of information, about an ongoing charade, in short, everything went through the review. However, at that time the Minister was explaining everything from needle to thread. Apparently, populism and media attention are more important today than the real parliamentary work. Prime Minister, this afternoon we heard that the government has decided to opt for the F-35. This gives you immediate implementation to one of the five yards in the State of the Union to take initiatives on defence, on combat capacity. I congratulate you on that. Mr Prime Minister, can you explain the decision taken this afternoon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are still living in a turbulent world. The Middle East is still a powder keg that's about to explode. Great powers such as Russia and China are active and very assertive. Just two years ago there were attacks, here in Brussels and Zaventem, organized by IS. Colleagues, we have assured ourselves as a small country against all these threats. We have assured ourselves by engaging in alliances, such as the EU and NATO. Cooperation and mutual assistance can continue to guarantee security, but such insurance costs money, colleagues. We're not profiteers. We don't let others pay for what we need. We take our own responsibility. Our party has always argued in favour of replacing the old F-16s, protecting our own citizens and our own airspace and also guaranteeing safety further away from home. Look at the fight against ISIS and our important participation in it. This is how we show that we are a loyal partner in NATO. That is what we are doing with the purchase of transport aircraft, and that is what you are doing today, Mr Prime Minister, with the purchase of new fighter aircraft. For the sake of security, we need to replace the F-16s. We have launched a very transparent procedure for this, so that our pilots will get the best plane at the best price. It will also improve our economy. Prime Minister, you chose the F-35 this morning with your government in honor and conscience. We therefore call on Parliament to have rapid access to the complete file so that we can exercise our control function. I have three questions. Firstly, when will the dossier be available to Members of Parliament? Secondly, can you explain the financial aspects of the purchase? Thirdly, can you explain in detail how the purchase can strengthen and support our Belgian industry and our Belgian companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what a masquerade yesterday! After six hours of completely sterile debate, where the government and the majority swept us away, reaffirming things that we had known for weeks or even months, a closed session was decided at 7:30 p.m. At that time, the Minister of Defence presented two tables comparing the two aircraft, from a technical, military and budgetary perspective. Today, you made the decision to buy the F-35. On these paintings that were presented to us last night did not appear geopolitical and political issues. Indeed, the question to which you must answer, Prime Minister, is: why will the main public procurement, from a symbolic and budgetary point of view, which will be granted under this legislature be granted to the Americans? In other words, this is a deal given to Trump, the one that spits at you at two consecutive NATO summits, the one that spits at us in the face – we Europeans. Secondly, my second question is related to the budget. This public market will involve two generations of Belgians, who are twenty years old today and who are responsible for the green wave of ten days ago. What will you say to the Belgians who will be twenty years old in 2038 and who will still have to pay for this public procurement? You will tell them that in 2018, you decided to buy 4 billion euros of fighter aircraft, while we were unable to invest at least 6 billion euros in the SCNB to relieve our city's congestion. The question is that Belgians can breathe. And that's your responsibility! You have opted for a hasty decision. You will assume it in the face of future generations!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, today your government has taken a decision on the replacement of the F-16s. The government promised at the start of the legislature that a decision would be taken in 2018. Today that decision has been made and it will be the F-35. The procedure from state to state, which Defense set up, has already been open and correct. The choice made is a rational choice. The course of this decision had quite a bit of turbulence. There were intense discussions in the Defence Committee, but also in this hemisphere. All options, until longer in the air keeping the F-16s, were studied. Colleagues, I would like to make an appeal. Let us learn, above all, from what we have experienced here over the last period of time with regard to important dossiers. The role of Parliament is important here. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budget allocated for this is not war money. It's not a waste of money either, let's be clear. This is a choice for security. This is a choice of responsibility. This is also a choice of international solidarity. Without security, no democracy thrives and there is no free world. With these 34 aircraft, we can not only guard our own airspace, but also continue to fulfil our international NATO obligations. I refer to our interventions in Syria and Iraq. Mr Prime Minister, let this be the last time we have to buy an American aircraft. Our country must play an important role in the development of a future European aircraft. Let us also seize the opportunity today to draw together with France and Germany the project of European defence tomorrow. I have two questions for you, Prime Minister. Can you explain on the basis of which criteria the choice was made on the F-35? When will the first aircraft be delivered? What guarantees will you ask the Americans to ensure that the agreements made are properly respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u19	Colleagues, I understand that the answer to all these questions will be given by the Prime Minister. The Ministers for Defence and Economy will then complement them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than 70 years since on the European continent, and in Belgium in particular, we have no longer been confronted with the tragedy of war and armed conflict. This situation of peace, only three generations have known it in the history of the world. Our grandparents have not experienced this situation. We owe it to the establishment of an international and European architecture, which has worked for 70 years to guarantee peace, security and the defence of our fundamental values of democracy and the rule of law. This security alliance is NATO. It is this very close link between Europe and North America. It is indeed this European project that is so close to our heart, because it carries in it values that are so fundamental and so essential to us. Defence, in this context, represents, in the eyes of the government, and this is not a surprise, a fundamental issue for peace and security. Four years ago, we made a clear and strong choice. Was that an easy choice? No. Yet we have made a courageous choice, initially for a strategy to stop any decline. In the past, it was easy in another international environment to save even more on defence budgets year after year. With one reality: others assumed the security of Europeans by investing. This commitment has been made, and I have made it on behalf of the government. It is implemented under this legislature. We have also, in full transparency with Parliament, presented a strategic vision and, above all, a bill that sets out investments in key areas, the basic equipment for the future of our defence. We have indeed made a few choices regarding the award procedure for this important challenge. I can hear a lot with attention, interest and respect, but we have had a lot of discussions in this Parliament, for hours, with our military, with the minister, with experts, with a completely new competitive procedure, the RfGP, published on the Defence website. What a fundamental break under this legislature with past military procurement practices, which have contributed so much to undermining the image and credibility of our country all over the world! The choice of transparency and what goes with it has been made, the lively and intense democratic debates that make the salt of the rule of law and democracy. That is why we have made that choice. Let me give you a few important points. Firstly, as far as aircraft are concerned, we have followed fully the RfGP procedure. Yesterday, those who remained in Parliament were able to obtain the full information. In this context, we found that the different opinions (Inspectors of Finance, ACCaP, SPF Employment for Economic Returns) all converge in the same direction: the best purchase is the one made by the government and presented to the House today. The second important element, because I want to restore the truth when some try to divert the facts: we are indeed making a choice of partnership within NATO and loyalty to it, but also a European choice. Indeed, if it is true that the aircraft and the Drone are American, 30% of the components of the F-35 will be European and the other equipment (rolling military equipment, frigates and mine fighters) will be part of European choices. That is the reality: it is a European choice and solidarity with all our partners. Finally, I want to highlight a complementary element. Mr Dallemagne, I will give a clear answer on the figures. My colleagues will certainly give more information on this. Indeed, EUR 600 million is less than the initial estimate. This means that we have a chance and will seize them to face two major challenges. Firstly, we are aiming for greater security for the economic social return and the social impact. Kris Peeters will certainly give more information about this. This means that part of the amount of EUR 600 million for pre-financing can be used in full consultation with the Länder, which have played an important role in this area and will play a major role in the future. This is a very important point since the fact that we have a more interesting offer than expected gives us an additional lever to secure as much as possible returns in terms of industrial expertise in Belgium, and therefore in Europe for the defence of tomorrow. And above all, Mr Dallemagne, this will allow us to set aside an envelope for these European defence projects that require innovation, research and development for more than EUR 300 million. I am thinking in particular of the plane of the future, in which we hope to be very directly mobilised. Ladies and gentlemen, those are the facts. We have made a clear choice. Was it an easy choice? No. But deciding nothing at all was not an option for us. After all, the world is changing and it is more important than ever to remain a strong, credible, loyal partner in the European Union and in NATO. I would now like to address those who have expressed themselves somewhat strangely in their speeches. To those who have expressed some curious messages, I would like to say that, of course, Donald Trump will probably be president of the United States for a few more years, but the choice of alliance we make with the United States for the next few decades is a more structural, more stable alliance. Yes, I plead not to be a follower of geopolitical choices outside Europe and I am therefore in relation to that, but the United States in my view has not become an opponent or an enemy. We need strong and strong alliances within the European Union, within NATO. It is the choice that has been made and we are assuming our responsibilities. It's a message for peace. It's a security message. It is a message for our country's international credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u21	Mr. Secretary, may I ask you to use the chair?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u23	That was your dream, Mr Calvo. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has clearly indicated the importance of the decision on the various programmes. I'd like to add another one. I would like to clarify for those who always think they have to say that they know more, without even being present at the time when the RfGP was proposed in committee, and who were once again absent at the time when we proposed the evaluation of the RfGP, but who continued to spread all kinds of nonsense in between. If you think that the transparent, open and objective procedure that we have used, with clear questions, clear criteria and a clear way of independent evaluation by several independent experts, was so bad and quadruple, Mr De Vriendt, then you should ask the Canadians, the Portuguese and the Swiss why they are asking us for a copy of the method we have used to replace our aircraft. After all, they are convinced that this is how they get to the right plane. Mr De Vriendt, you say that I have seven reasons not to do so. I'll give you seven reasons to choose the F-35. Firstly, the F-35 scores best in terms of total ownership costs. Secondly, the F-35 scores best in terms of operational employability. Thirdly, the F-35 scores best in terms of partnerships and military cooperation. Fourthly, the F-35 scores best in terms of protecting essential security interests. Fifth, the F-35 scores best in terms of growth and evolution potential. Sixth, the F-35 scores best in terms of ease of use and develobility. Seventhly, the F-35 scores best in terms of operational and technical support. With regard to the procedure, Mr De Vriendt, the purchase will cost EUR 600 million less than budgeted in advance. That is the result of the procedure. In doing so, we are releasing money that we can commit to the European defence industry and our own defence industry, and in doing so, we are buying into a credible story within Europe and within NATO for our future security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u24	Mr President, the economic aspect is of course also very important. There is always talk of economic compensation, but it is now, for the sake of clarity, about essential security interests or business-to-business as a social return. There is a group of people from the FPS Economy and Defence, who have looked at and prepared this file very seriously. They compared both offers on the basis of the social return. They reached 3,690 billion for the F-35 and 2.5 billion for the Eurofighter. So that's a pretty important difference. That is why, in view of the economic and social return, we have also opted for the F-35. It has just been said whether this will be achieved effectively for the Belgian industry. In order to ensure follow-up, an organisation consisting of the federal level, the Regions, the Communities and industry will be set up. She will succeed the effective realisation of that social return for Belgian companies. The question is, of course, what is to be imagined and what sectors are to be eligible for it. Firstly, it concerns Belgian companies participating in the production of the aircraft concerned. You know that there is a volume of up to three thousand aircraft worldwide. This is an important potential for industrial and technological engagement beyond 2030. That's the first group. A second group concerns the participation of Belgian companies in the further development of the aircraft in the long term. This means a potential involvement up to 2050 to 2060. This has to do with, among other things, maintenance and support. A third group of Belgian companies is made up of companies in other industrial sectors related to safety. That amount of EUR 3.6 billion is very important. We will monitor this closely and ensure that Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders are adequately addressed, including with regard to the other projects. This has been closely monitored and we will continue to do so to ensure that the balances that are important in this country are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u25	Mr. President, Prime Minister, there is at least one major element of your response that I am interested in. No more hiding behind the legal arguments to say that the only outcome of the procedure could only be the choice of the American plane. You have recognized that the choice is political. It has been political since the beginning of your government. As you have said very clearly, it is the choice of loyalty to the NATO Alliance, without daring the autonomy of the European Union within NATO. That's what was at stake in the choice of the plane. The question was whether Europe, within NATO, could assert itself as a military power with autonomy. Europe's military power begins with its own weapons capability. On the day the United States buys a European fighter aircraft, your argument will have some relevance, but it's something we haven't seen yet and we won't see for a long time. The real challenge was whether Europe could finally develop its own military capability while remaining faithful to its alliances. You weren't visionary. You were a follower. That's what we regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, Europe has built itself on major industrial projects. There has been coal; there has been steel; more recently there have been major projects such as Galileo or Airbus. You could have scored the story. You could, thanks to this lever, have made sure that we speed up this common market for large defence equipment and that we do indeed have an additional ambition for defence Europe. You could have, at a crucial moment for Europe, at a time when Europeans are doubting, at a time when Europe is fragmenting, thanks to this lever, confirming what you are saying everywhere, namely that you are in the cockpit of the European Union. You got the wrong cockpit, Prime Minister! You have not had this European ambition. You took refuge behind technical or legal arguments. Yet it was an important decision to enthralle and reenchant Europe through essential elements of its security, its strategic autonomy, its pride and not its vassality towards the United States. It was an important decision so that we could, together, build great partnerships not only with the United States, but also with others, so that we could influence the affairs of the world. That is what you missed today, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u27	Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment, how happy to hear you on this matter! For months, the Socialist Group has asked to hear from you in committee. Mr Vuye, I have spent hours in committee; not to beg here three applause from the N-VA, but because I know the crucial issue of this issue. Minister, we have asked to hear you. We asked to hear from federated entities about the societal impact of this case. We didn't see you. You have been the great absentee of this great debate. Today, the decision had to be made so that you would come here to speak. You may laugh, but I haven't heard much about jobs and economic benefits for our three regions. That seems secondary. Mr Prime Minister, the ink of your decision is not yet dry that, throughout Europe, there is criticism of the fact that you killed the European defence project. We, the founding country of the European Union, are the seat of the European institutions! By your decision, you have succeeded in making the Eurosceptic dream of the N-VA a reality, by abandoning taxes on financial transactions, by refusing to condemn Hungary's drifts or by welcoming Mr Puigdemont as a Head of State. We passed, because of you, on the dark side of the strength of the Eurosceptics.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u28	Mrs Fernandez has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u29	Miller has some difficulty digesting certain decisions and taking on certain things. No camouflage operation, Prime Minister, will hide your decision here and its consequences for the European defence project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, you pointed out the absence of some Members last night to your grandma of transparency. I was there, and there's someone I didn't see: it's you. You were as stealthy as an F-35 last night, Prime Minister. More fundamentally, I've heard of return effects. What return effects are you talking about? Return of war refugees? The negative effects of our interventions should be taken into account in the balance sheet of this purchase. Prime Minister, you spoke about our situation. We haven't been confronted with the war since 1945, you said. Yes, but this is not the case of the populations that are attacked by our combat aircraft. Finally, what is the record of our armed interventions in the world? These are tens of thousands of casualties. They are countries transformed into economic and social deserts. It is a long-term political chaos. It is the development of terrorism, and it is a flood of refugees that we are reluctant to accept afterwards. Is that your vision of the world, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u31	Mr President, Minister, this is perhaps one of the last major dossiers you are dealing with before you leave for Hasselt. I therefore do not understand why you, as one of the last great acts in your capacity as Minister, can sign under the miscarriage of the century. We do not have time to comment on your seven arguments, but one of them was the operational commitment. Well, according to a Pentagon report itself, the F-35 still counts 917 errors. As regards operational commitment, therefore, I would still exercise a little patience. Minister, people's taxpayers' money really deserves better than an unreliable procedure and the colourful choice for the American F-35, just to be able to bomb with the big boys. Just for that. This is a bad decision. Pull that decision, you can still do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u32	Prime Minister, Ministers, we thank you for the answers you provided today, for the way you worked on this issue. The MR Group fully shares the analysis behind the government's decisions as well as the peaceful geopolitical objectives that you recalled at the end of your presentation, Prime Minister: national, European and Atlantic objectives. That is what justifies the decision. I have also paid close attention to the economic response of the minister, whom I thank. You're talking about 3.7 billion euros in direct benefits. There will also be indirect spillovers. You mentioned again how you will work with the federated entities for a good distribution across all of our businesses. Thank you for approaching the issue in this way. We are talking about this European vocation. We share and support her. But I am afraid that if France, Mr Maingain, had been so European, if it had really been at the root of this desire to create European defence, why has it not responded to the invitation to tender of the Belgian State, the founding State of the European Union? I am not asking you to answer; it was my answer to your analysis. I would like to add that the MR was very interested in ensuring that this whole procedure, for such an important market, is carried out in the most transparent and honest manner. That wasn't the case before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u33	Prime Minister, an English proverb says: "Put your money where your mouth is." You have declared your European creed with your mouth, but you only spend EUR 300 million, I meant EUR 600 million, but it is even less than the European dream you have so often proclaimed, while you spend EUR 15 billion on an American plane. These figures speak for themselves. Secondly, I've heard financial fairy tales here today. The purchase price of the aircraft is rounded up to EUR 3.6 billion and the Minister of Economy states that the compensation will amount to EUR 3.6 billion. Now, let us boost our Belgian economy. If those planes make as much money as they cost, why are we only ordering 34? That's a financial fairy tale! I'll take the majority's word for it. From the outset, as is the case in the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Denmark, we asked for the Court of Auditors to be involved in the decision-making process on this dossier. This majority has always refused to do so, although it is full of transparency and objective procedures. However, the majority has promised that the Court of Auditors may check the figures once the decision has been taken. Well, I will take the majority on its word, because tomorrow we will table a proposal to that effect. Finally, I hope that the images of the enthusiastically clapping MEPs of N-VA, MR, CD&V and Open Vld will be on display in all news tonight. After all, ladies and gentlemen, you applaud the purchase of 34 fighter planes that can drop nuclear bombs, while SNCB is underfunded, hospitals should be closed and schools needed. I hope that as many Flemings and Belgians as possible will see that footage tonight!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u34	Mr President, in most cases files are being chased by the Chamber at a speed higher than the speed of an F-35. The majority approves everything and likes to push the buttons. Mr Vandeput, you said yesterday that you do not want Parliament to be a third party but a partner. It would also be a good thing for other dossiers that Parliament should be regarded more as a partner, especially in the dossier here. When the government goes shopping for such a sum, it is normal that it is transparent as well. Unfortunately, that doesn't usually happen. Prime Minister, you smile, but in most cases there is no transparency. There is zero transparency. I still have a number of questions with regard to the specifications of the current dossier. I have to admit that. I still have a number of questions with regard to compensation. My group will certainly check whether Flanders gets its share of the compensation. Prime Minister, you have not answered my question as to who will follow political responsibility. You're stealth there, too. You're not answering the question. You will, of course, be the political officer in the case of accidents. After all, you are the Prime Minister. For the rest, I hope that those who honk loudly when the cameras are running now know that they may not have to be stealth when it really comes to doing parliamentary work in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u35	Mr Peeters, my condolences. Normally it's always the N-VA's fault, but according to the PS, you're the one who didn't do it right. Again, my condolences for that. Prime Minister, congratulations on this dossier. You yourself know that in this dossier the government has acted very decently, very strongly and with sufficient transparency. I know that, you know that, and in fact Mr Van der Maelen knows that. I know that less decent decisions have been taken in the past, and you know that, and Mr Van der Maelen knows that. Perhaps the sp.a looks back more satisfied on the approach of the past, we are in any case in favour of this correct approach. This government has shown the courage to decide on a difficult dossier, which involves a great deal of money. And that's a good thing. It is a very strategic decision, which is important for the security and future of defence, for the credibility of our allies and of industry, in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Defence, the financial picture is correct, you are buying under the budgeted price and you are going to invest 600 million more in European defence and in your own defence. I can only congratulate you on that. This is actually the result of a very good and transparent purchasing procedure. The economic return is also very important to my party. I am pleased to hear that there is 3.7 billion direct support for Belgian companies. Mr Peeters, as you said, in the longer term access to technology, to innovation, to development projects will be worth so much more. Companies such as SABCA also gained access to F-16 technology in the 1970s and were able to create a different portfolio on that technology, allowing them to approach other markets. The long-term vision of access to that technology is even more important than the amount of 3.7 billion. The safety of our inhabitants is guaranteed. However, I have heard here that different groups do not want aircraft. Well, colleagues who do not want planes, you say that you do not want to organise safety, that you organise insecurity. My party won't go along with that. We take responsibility. We want those planes to be purchased. Security in our country needs to be further organized, starting with the purchase of these F-35s.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u37	Prime Minister, what a farce compared to the 600 million euros in rebates that Lockheed Martin would have made and that you would eventually invest in a future European project! You really take parliamentarians, and through them all Belgians, for pitchers! As far as societal returns are concerned, I am pleased to hear the Minister of Economy: "Social returns are the new word for economic compensation". And, in the various documents transmitted to us, there is a question of essential security interests. Colleagues, no Belgian company currently manufactures a component of the F-35. I would like to draw the attention of all colleagues to the fact that this market will have to be managed for decades: you will eventually face an inquiry by the committee into the use of this concept of essential security interests because, since the Agusta-Dassault case, economic compensation has been prohibited. Prime Minister, under pressure from the United States and the N-VA, you have gone against the tide of history. You are making a historical mistake today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hear the opposition gathered here saying that this is the miscarriage of the century. I would remind you that this was also said in 1975 when the decision was taken on the purchase of the F-16. Now it turns out that the F-16 has been one of the best purchases in the last century. I invite you to read the memoirs of Leo Tindemans. Colleagues from sp.a. and Green, make sure you don't want planes. What do you want? Do you still want some defense? Do you want another air force in our country? I hear Mr Maingain and the PS say that this is a decision against Europe. Colleagues, do you know that five EU countries currently have F-35s? It concerns the Netherlands, Italy, Norway, Denmark and the United Kingdom, and Germany is now also interested in ordering F-35s. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope that we will roll this project out properly and that the Americans will keep to the agreements made on economic return or, rather, we should not use the term'security interests'. Prime Minister, we must go for a European project. We want our country, together with France and Germany, to take the lead. We are counting on you and your successor to make European defence in Europe a reality at last.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group has repeatedly called for an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. In May 2017, we even adopted a resolution in which we demanded it. The horrible way in which critical journalist Khashoggi was murdered in the Saudi consulate in Turkey is nauseating. Then forcing his son to shake hands with the Crown Prince and admit today through the prosecutor that the murder was planned in advance proves once again that Saudi Arabia is a rogue state. But we already knew that. Thinking of the war in Yemen. Yesterday, the UN sounded the alarm about the conflict in Yemen, in which Saudi Arabia plays an important role. Seventeen million people are at risk of dying of malnutrition, cholera, disease. The situation is catastrophic. Mark Lowcock, the UN Emergency Aid Coordinator, called on the UN Security Council, in which our country will be seat next year, to establish a humanitarian force. In concrete terms, it means that we are putting a stop to the supply of arms. Our country provides humanitarian aid to Yemen. Minister De Croo made 5.5 million euros for it last week. At the same time, record numbers of weapons were sold from Wallonia to Saudi Arabia: for 5 billion euros in eight years time; for 150 million euros in 2017. Minister, you have long been waiting for a European arms embargo. Last week, Germany showed more courage: it stopped exports without waiting for Europe. Let us follow the example of Germany. Will you ask the Walloon Government to stop arms exports to Saudi Arabia? Are you prepared to give an important signal on the world stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u40	Mrs Lijnen, firstly, with regard to the Khashoggi dossier, I was struck by the death of Mr Khashoggi in such circumstances. In an initial response to the journalist's family and fiancé, I have offered our sincere sympathy. I asked for a transparent, credible and independent investigation. This was also the question of the European Union. We will insist on such an investigation, just as we have done before in relation to violence against journalists, even in Europe. I refer to incidents in Malta and Bulgaria. Secondly, you are asking for an arms embargo. A resolution has been adopted in this House. I have already had a first contact with my European colleagues in order to reach such an embargo. So I did not wait for the Khashoggi case to take that initiative. As a result of the violence in Yemen, we have decided to take steps towards an embargo. I have asked my European colleagues to take a similar initiative. However, until now this has proved impossible. At present, it seems that some will change their position. I am thinking, among other things, of Germany. I will therefore ask again for an embargo, or at least insist that decisions be suspended in export files until there is a conclusion in the Khashoggi case. Following the adoption of the resolution in Parliament, I also asked the Regions for a response. Well, they have all asked for a European embargo. I am in favour of stopping arms deliveries and deliveries of dual-use material. I believe that all regions should support a general embargo on arms supplies and deliveries of dual-use material to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u41	Mr. Secretary, you are using dual-use equipment as a lightning rod. The export of dual-use products to Saudi Arabia is no reason to say that Flanders exports arms there. After all, only if it is clear that the products are for civil use will they be granted a licence. Every day sixty people die in Yemen. Every day Saudi Arabia violates human rights. It is high time arms exports to Saudi Arabia stopped. Minister, do not fall into cynicism again and place human lives at the heart of Yemen. I urge you to do so again today. We must lead Europe. We must take the lead and do as Germany has done. That's brave. That's our job. Do not hide behind the responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u42	Mr President, Minister, this week a comparative study was announced by two professors who compared notary costs in eight European countries. Turns out what? Real estate is the milk cow for the notaries. Thanks to the high notary cost on real estate, a notary makes an average of 30 000 euros a month. The Belgian notaries are the most expensive in Europe for real estate. I am the first to say that everyone can make a good living, but EUR 30 000 per month for a necessary service to the citizen is, at least, excessive. Minister, how can you justify this? Especially for smaller houses, Belgian notary fees are extra high, not for large villas, again a clear example of our Belgian class justice. Between 2009 and 2017, the number of real estate transactions increased by 30%. The turnover and profits of the notaries have also increased by 30%. The notaries themselves admit that it's golden times, that it's super lucrative. More importantly, because these real estate transactions are so lucrative for them, they often no longer want to deal with inheritances, for example. Minister, it is not possible for the notaries to choose only to make real estate transactions. Isn't that where you have to act legally? Earlier this year, you will remember this hopefully, I submitted a bill in which I advocate a drastic reduction in the notaries' remuneration. Minister, I only have one question. In September, you promised to make the notary costs cheaper and to bring the rates in line with their efforts. When are these legal texts coming in to thoroughly reform the notary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u43	Mr President, Mr Minister, as my colleague has just said, researchers from the universities of Leuven and Vienna have published a study which notes that, in real estate transactions, notary fees in Belgium were the highest. The average annual income is known to be EUR 350 000, but it can also be up to EUR 2 million. Moreover, in our country, the annual income of this sector is 1 billion euros, not to mention that the number of notaries is one of the highest in Europe. I'm not gonna multiply the numbers. That said, Minister, you announced a reform of the profession of notary. This is an opportunity to respond to citizens who do not understand the magnitude of notary fees. The problem lies in your method, Minister: to reform the sector, two notaries are appointed. It's not a method of work! Where are consumers and other professions? We can't find them anywhere. Moreover, their report is already criticized by academic experts. From the first page, we can read: "Nothing the notaries say is based on scientific data or exact figures." Minister, I regret not only your method, but also we will not accept any reform in the area of notary fees. This is what the two notaries propose. When I read what they were doing for notarial fees in real estate, I thought it was a joke. Notaries know that a bill is on the table. That's why they've already contacted me. The aim of this text is to drastically reduce their income in the event of a real estate transaction. For their part, they suggest reducing costs for the buyer by allocating them, not between the buyer and the notary, but between the buyer and the seller. This is totally unacceptable! On the other hand, we have a university study that says: "Goodbye the reformers! We will start to work seriously and try to follow the example of other countries." Minister, are you going to change your method? When will you submit your reform? Finally, will your measures meet the expectations of citizens and society, and not only of notaries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, Mrs Lalieux, in this legislature, we have already taken a great deal of steps on notaries, such as multi-station offices, stricter auditing of accounts, free rejection of the notary's estate, the strengthening of internship and related matters. As announced, I am working on a draft bill that modernizes legal functions, including those of notaries. I am the path that was set out in my political declaration: appointment of experts, consultation with professional groups, drafting of a draft bill, Council of Ministers and then Parliament. I hope to be able to complete everything before the end of this Parliament. As far as the specific problem of tariffs is concerned, it must first and foremost be borne in mind that tariffs also include a piece of consumer protection because they give rise to predictability of fees. The heavy emphasis placed in the notary on the fee paid for the purchase of a property has been placed exactly historically there because the fee is at that time included in a set of charges, such as registration fees and mortgage rights, which make the notary's fee more "absorbable', if I may use that word. Mrs Lalieux, what neither the public nor the notaries themselves realize is that 60% of their income is from real estate sales. This makes them particularly vulnerable but at the same time seems unreasonable. There is cross subsidization: all those who make real estate pay for all other notarial services. To a certain extent, it is good for everyone, since, for example, for a marriage contract, you pay almost nothing, even if you are very rich. That's not reasonable. It is necessary to look for a tariff structure which corresponds more to the actual effort of the notary. That's what we're talking about right now with the notaries. Of course, we take into account the study of the KUL you mention, but comparison with other countries can be misleading. For example, when the comparison with Spain is made, we find that in Spain the notary does nothing but register. With us, the notary must ensure that all federal and regional legislation eligible for the sale of real estate is complied with. We have to admit that in the last 20 years, for example, there have been a lot of environmental commitments. That is therefore an unfair comparison between Spain and Belgium for our notaries. So, yeah, I'm working on the rates. Yeah, I'm trying to do better for the consumer. Eventually, the practitioners of the notary profession will see that this also benefits the notary. At the moment, however, Mrs Lambrecht, this is a message which they do not like to hear. Mevrouw Lambrecht and Mrs.Lalieux, your parties have long and sufficiently participated in the power only to be able to change these tariffs. If I changed them, it wouldn't be bad!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u45	Minister, you refer to our long participation in the government, but that is quite apart from the issue, and that way you can counter everything. That's not gonna work. I will continue to say that the reduction in notaries' wages is not progressing. When I listen to you, I hear the mouthpiece of the notaries and not someone who stands up for the consumers. You say that there must be predictability for the consumer. That predictability could be that prices are finally going to fall, Minister, rather than always rising or not moving. You speak terms as a vulnerable notary, but I am talking about vulnerable consumers when buying a house. I understand that such a reform is complex and takes time, but you have had four years now. At the start of the legislature, you said that you would thoroughly reform and modernise the profession of notary. What did we see? You had time to increase the registry rights, to reduce the number of peace courts, to reform company law and to set up an International Business Court. Well, we're still hungry about the high costs we have to pay on real estate at the notary's. You have six months left, Minister, to take action and to show how much you want to see the consumer and how you want to protect him. I have a proposal to make. I won't give it to you, but you can look at it again. Maybe you'll find inspiration in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u46	Minister, I understand that you do not intend to change your method and that notaries will continue to write your bills. The same was true yesterday with Mr Peeters: the brokers themselves wrote their draft codes of conduct. But when you say, in relation to real estate sales, that it is the fees that pay the notary, you are aware that they benefit from administrative simplification and computerization and that, as a result, the workload has decreased considerably for all notaries. On the other hand, and you know very well, the prices of real estate have sometimes been multiplied by 15! As a result, the salary of notaries has been multiplied by 15! That's not acceptable. Yet they do exactly the same job as before! As far as matrimonial transactions are concerned, why is it still a notary who is responsible for them? Why not go much further in your reform and remove from notaries the monopoly of certain acts? For not only do they have a monopoly but they also pay on the back of the consumer, who, with you, has absolutely no right to deny it. We do not agree with your reforms, and I hope, Mr Minister, that a real debate will take place in this chamber and that, finally, you will invite a person other than the only corporation around the table because, when it suits you, Minister, you always do corporatism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u47	Mr President, Minister, this morning's L'Echo newspaper reveals that in Brussels 1,700 cases, including theft, have been closed without even being opened in recent weeks. Worse, it has been decided that, for a period of one or two months, incidents of single theft, shoplifting, threats and harassment will be systematically classified without further action. Mr Minister, when you read this kind of thing, of course, it's not right! What message is being conveyed to public opinion? It is that of impunity or mismanagement, of a gabegie of staff made available. That deserves to be something we're interested in. We have to look for the causes and I think we must not go very far to get to know them. These are the consequences of what this government has wanted to do for years, by drastically reducing the expenditure of the Justice FPS, which is said to be not excessive at European level compared to what is happening in other countries. This message of impunity is outrageous because it results from a lack of appointments, a lack of vacancy announcement and a lack of willingness to fill managers, as stipulated in the law, i.e. 100 per cent and not 90 per cent, as you have done since your arrival in the department. Worse still: in such a system, it is the systematic aspect. That means we don't even open the files. We see what they deal with by the title and we say, "These, we don't have time to take care of it." But, regardless of the feeling of impunity, what are the possible victims who feel concerned about these facts, which may be considered not to be serious? But this is what contributes to this sense of insecurity that is so present in the population. What message is given to these people? They are told that they will not have the opportunity to be taken over by the public authorities who will not prosecute the perpetrator of the crime or the offence of which they were victims. They will be told: "You can always do a civil procedure. You may file a civil suit before the investigating judge." But, at the same time, we know that in your boxes, Mr.Minister, you have the removal of this ability for the individual to still file a civil action before an investigating judge. That's not right! This message is not correct. Mr Minister, do you confirm the particular actions of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office? Do you have any information to give us about this? How long will the prosecution resume? What is your reaction to this practice and its consequences? When will you increase structurally the number of prosecutors, particularly in Brussels, which is running under the file? Finally, do you have a list of the remaining vacancies? How long do you intend to complete them? It would be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u48	Minister, this morning I read: 'Undermanned parquet ranks 1 700 files'. Lighter crimes such as theft without violence and shoplifting would no longer be dealt with according to judicial sources as a result of understaffing the prosecution. Immediately I found out what was going on. I recall that, as a result of the state reform and the division of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde, we had discussions to provide additional magistrates to the judicial district of Brussels. Moreover, in 2017, additional magistrates would have been appointed in Brussels, precisely in order to eliminate the legal backlog and to prosecute crimes properly. By the way, when I opened my computer at 13:43, I could already read the denial of the parquet that it would systematically classify 1 700 files. In any case, the message is that there is insufficient manpower to deal effectively with criminal cases of lighter crimes, and that is why we considered the division of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde to be important, which should ensure that the so-called minor crimes are not dealt with at all. Is that true or not? Is the problem due to the fact that the staff framework would not be sufficiently large or to the fact that it would not be sufficiently completed? Are there not enough vacancies? Or does the problem have to do with less good management, where priority is not given according to the workload? Prime Minister, can you confirm or deny the messages? Secondly, are there effective reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Brussels Public Prosecutor responded today to the Le Soir report and said that since 2014 there have been 50% more persecutions than before. So 50 % fewer files are dropped. You can see that not everything in the paper is true. Secondly, as a result of the division of the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde arrondissement, the Brussels framework has been greatly extended. The framework of the French parquet in Brussels has been extended from 80 to 98 in two phases. The Dutch-speaking parquet has been extended to 21 magistrates in two phases. This means that the Brussels framework, unlike in the other arrondissements, has been thoroughly extended as a result of the sixth state reform. In addition, we are trying to maintain this framework as much as possible. At present there are 13 vacancies for French speakers. This means that as soon as these vacant places are filled, there will be 97 magistrates on a 98 cadre. At the same time, there are also two vacant places for Dutch speakers. The frame, when filled, will increase from 19 to 21, which is the maximum. For Brussels, therefore, we are still trying to fill the 100% framework, as promised during the division of the judicial district. Recently, four prosecutors were also recruited after the vacancy had been announced. Of course, we give maximum priority to the real workload. That's what we do for the other arrondissements anyway. Finally, I would like to point out the following. Following the riots that occurred at the end of last year, I ensured, in consultation with the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, that an additional French-speaking magistrate could ensure the permanence and day-care services during the weekend. Two French-speaking prosecutors and one Dutch-speaking prosecutor are active each weekend as a guard service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u50	Minister, you are extraordinary. You came with a numerical answer – I expected no less – but you do not answer the essential question, which is that of the practice of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office to decide to systematically close 1,700 cases without further action. The public prosecutor was arrested by the author of the article. She said she did not comment on how criminal policy was being conducted. You can read the article. I can give it to you when I leave the gallery. You will find the answers. It is the practices implemented that are not acceptable. These practices arise from a lack of framework. You have just said that 13 people are missing in the Francophone setting so that the prosecution can be complete and act. This is not negligible of the 90 posts that need to be filled. This probably explains that. It is all the more surprising that other figures are favourable. Crime in Brussels is on the decline, we boasted about it. While crime is on the decline and therefore there should be fewer cases, there is less time to deal with more or to clear the backlog. That's where it's wrong. Working methods are driven by management, probably, but also by mandates and positions that are not filled at the executive level. This is where you have to commit yourself "100%", as you have repeated, because these are the agreements reached during the division of the Brussels-Hal-Vilvorde district.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is important to correct what appeared in the Dutch press this morning and in the French press last night. That was also contradicted this afternoon, by the way. One looks at file by file, in a human chain, whether to effectively dismiss or not. We note that the framework has been fully completed here. It is important that journalists also dare to put the question to the public prosecutors, given that the framework is complete, how the available resources are being worked, especially given the fact that additional resources were allocated precisely to prosecute smaller crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u52	Mr President, Minister, last week the Federal Security Council, of which you are also a member, presented a confidential report which, after almost five years of investigation, shows that Belgacom's hacking was most likely carried out by GCHQ in 2013, which stands for the Government Communications Heads, the NSA of Great Britain. It is also strange that the British Ministry of the Interior was asked to provide information on some IP addresses in Britain that could prove the active role of the British intelligence services. The UK authorities replied that they have decided to refuse this aid. The United Kingdom considers that this request could jeopardise its sovereignty, security and public order. In all likelihood, one Member State of the European Union has hacked and spied on another Member State. That is the first incident of that order in the European Union, and it is unique. The fact that the British authorities refuse to cooperate in a judicial investigation is at least as remarkable. It is also remarkable that you refused to make any statement on this; the Prime Minister also refused. By refusing to provide information, the British government is sabotaging an ongoing judicial investigation, while in all likelihood its own intelligence service is behind Belgacom's hacking. That is all very strange, Minister, and I would therefore like to ask you a few questions for clarification. To what extent will you call for cooperation through diplomatic channels? How do you respond to what I have mentioned, in particular the refusal of the British Government to cooperate in the judicial investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u53	Mr President, the place to respond to such confidential reports that have been leaked is not in the press but in Parliament. Belgacom's hacking is not a recent event. That happened under the previous government. I remember that very well. That was when the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium was founded in 2015. Today we are much better armed than in 2013 and 2014 to prevent hacking. The federal prosecutor who conducted the investigation authorised me to share the following information: "The investigation took a lot of time because of its high technicality and the fact that the authors of the hacking have made considerable efforts to hide their intrusion and cover their tracks. The investigation was hampered by the refusal of the UK authorities to grant a request for mutual legal assistance from the Federal Office to identify the user of an IP address in the United Kingdom. The refusal is based on grounds of national security. European legislation allows a refusal on such grounds. However, such a refusal is very problematic given the facts and the relationship between Belgium and the United Kingdom. It is all the more regrettable because it inevitably reinforces the suspicion that the British secret service is involved in the hacking. Such involvement would, of course, be unacceptable." It was agreed in the National Security Council that the issue would be explicitly raised at political level by the ministers exercising the appropriate powers to do so with the UK authorities. I would like to say that as long as national security does not become a European issue but remains a national issue, it will not be easy for legal aid to make progress, leaving the British and Brexit excluded. It is regrettable that this is happening and that this refusal has taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u54	Minister, I have heard politicians speak harsh language in the past when, for example, the Russian intelligence service FSB set up similar hacking actions. But all that aside. I note that you find this regrettable and I take note of the fact that the National Security Council will inform the British authorities about this. However, I believe that something more needs to be done than that. You or the Foreign Minister must call on the British Ambassador and make it clear that this cannot be done. This is a very serious precedent. If we allow this to happen in the future with countries of the European Union, then the barrier's fence. With the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre we may be better armed, but the hackers are also better equipped. This means that it can certainly happen in the future. Remember that this is a case of sabotage of justice in a country of the European Union by another member of the Union. That can and should never be tolerated. Muscle action is necessary. Call the ambassador and let him know we're not gonna accept this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u55	Mr President, Minister, this week we read in the newspapers that the social inspection was invaded by Ambuce because of distressing working conditions. Ambulancers sometimes work more than 80 hours a week, although they have a 38-hour contract. They are often also used as volunteers in the place where they work under contract. Of course, that's illegal, that's for sure. The question arises, and the ambulance company has also raised the question of whether they have much choice. After all, the company claims that there is a lack of funding for its not insignificant services. Ambuce is the largest firm and is therefore of course more popular. However, the situations are quite identical throughout the landscape. I may not be the only one who gets the relevant e-mails arranged in his mailbox. You slightly increased the budget for urgent medical care a while ago. That's right. However, according to the sector, this was not enough. About 140 million euros were requested. You were able to make some EUR 35 million available at that time. I understand that the discussion is not easy, but I have questions about the choices you sometimes make. I am thinking, for example, of the question that the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance received last summer to set up a working group to examine the deployment of helicopters in urgent medical care. Its chairman, Professor Gillet, is known as a great advocate for those traumas. However, that is a very expensive thing to do. We know that the working group has not yet been convened, although it should have an opinion on 30 January 2019. I therefore wonder whether the decision of the report is actually not known and whether it is not intended to accommodate a few large university hospitals in this area. However, in 2009, Minister Onkelinx asked the Council the same question. She was given a clear negative opinion at the time. That's why I have the next question for you. How can you estimate that there would be sufficient resources for such a prestige project, in my view expensive, while you can equip a lot of ambulances for each helicopter and pay for the staff? De facto, with the latter in urgent medical care, there are many more people to help. Shouldn't that be our first priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u56	Mrs van Peel, the choice has already been made to reorganise urgent medical aid on the ground with the investment of the 35 million and the previous 12 million. The two pilot projects that have often been discussed here continue to run, they continue to exist. But first we want to improve the ground treatment for patients. Indeed, for many years, the funding was structurally insufficient. She was also complicated and less transparent for the patient. You know that two patients who have to be transported from point A to point B will never pay the same price because the ambulance comes from somewhere else. That is why we have now given this a stronger financial basis. At the same time, we have set the bar very high for intervention time. For 90% of calls one must now be on the spot within fifteen minutes. For the rest, it may take a little longer. We are actually subsidising the departure of an ambulance, not the ambulance companies. The service they are required to provide consists of a permanent standby and an extension at the request of the 112 plant to pick up patients. The financing therefore consists of several components. There is a permanence fee, i.e. a lump sum calculated on the basis of the permanence actually carried out. In addition, there is an activation fee for each ride they perform. This is due to this reform, regardless of whether or not the patient is coming along. Then there is a mileage fee based on the average ride distance of the previous year. For example, we do not want to penalise services that have few activities but do long journeys. Finally, it is very clear to the patient. There is a flat rate of 60 euros regardless of distance. We received 47 million and 12 million in the budget negotiations. This means that the amount spent by our country on urgent medical aid has tripled. That's it? That's it? No. Should there be further investment according to the estimates? Certainly, but I believe that we have already made quite a catch-up and that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is true that you have already made an investment. It is also true that you say that it is not enough. This isn't nothing. The ambulance staff and our ambulance services are crucial in health care. They save a lot of lives every day. I would therefore like to insist on making more money available for this in the future. I think this is an absolute necessity. We shouldn't make so much fuss about other projects. Certainly the project with the helicopters should perhaps be abandoned, because they can hardly de facto fly out and land in Flanders. Moreover, there is sufficient density between hospitals. I believe that the Council has been very clear about this in its previous report. According to the Council, the high visibility of the tool and its impact on the image of the hospital partners using it should not play a role. This calls for clear priorities to be set in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u58	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that more or less 150 000 tonnes of plastic waste are dumped into Europe in the seas, causing considerable damage to marine animals. Plastic residues also enter the food chain. This poses a relatively important problem, which is why the European Commission took the decision in May to remove, or attempt to remove, plastic waste from trade, such as plasticised cardboard cups, tumblettes, cutlery, plastic plates, cotton tiges, etc. This is found in this morning's press. I would like to point out that the European Commission's approach is probably not sufficient. That is why our parliamentarian, Frédérique Ries, also intervened in the European Parliament to push the restrictions a little further, specifically for light plastic bags and polystyrene packaging. It's a great approach. If my information is correct, 90% of plastic bottles will have to be recyclable by 2021. Of course, good will is one thing and the way forward to implement the various decisions are two things. It is on this subject that I wanted to ask you more specifically, Madam Minister. What is the ambition of Belgium and the federated entities on this issue? Do you think that we will quickly find a consensus between European states so that these directives can be implemented? Is it possible at present to consider Belgium a good student in this field or can it do better?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u59	Mr President, the debate is under way. Belgium supports an ambitious position in this direction, which is quite close to the European Parliament's point of view. The Member States of the European Union have not really reached a consensus. That is why it is interesting and even essential for Belgium to take a position. Too much plastic has invaded our lives, as you just recalled, in the straight line of linear economy, whose only slogan is "produce, consume and throw away". This production and consumption has been increasing steadily since the 1950s. According to the Plastic Oceans Foundation, almost half of the plastic produced each year is used once, then discarded and too rarely recycled. So we have to change our model. I have always supported the widest possible approach. This is a global problem that requires a coordinated and harmonious response as well as ambitious. I therefore fully support the initiative taken at European Parliament level. I myself launched a call in June 2016 for a broader Belgian reflection on cash bags which, unfortunately, did not echo at the level of the Regions. At present, we have three types of prohibitions that are provided for while the immediate alternative, the paper bag – not necessarily recycled – remains for single use. At this rate, we will have forests, although sustainably managed, but used mainly to fill our garbage with paper bags. Belgium must therefore be an example for Europe. Last year, I signed a sectoral agreement with DETIC, the Belgian-Luxembourg association of cosmetics producers and distributors, in order to replace micro-plastics in their products in 2019. As part of the road map on the circular economy adopted at the new federal level by my colleague Kris Peeters and myself in October 2016, to take Belgium towards the transition in the context of a circular economy, I would like to point out the strategic watch I launched by funding thirteen studies in order to identify technical and economic barriers to recycling. The first of these studies concerned the CGP and was presented in April. All other studies will lead to a series of round tables whose work will be completed in March 2019. I would be delighted to be supported by the Belgian Parliament in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u60	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. Everyone will have noticed that the situation is catastrophic at the global and European levels. I hear that there is a will on your part to move things forward in Belgium, but perhaps the federated entities have not yet done all the work necessary to be able to move forward in a coherent way. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the communal campaign, a number of initiatives have been taken on what is known as zero waste. Apart from the federal, the regions and the provinces, there are communal entities which must be kept informed of the various initiatives you are taking and which must be pushed forward, so that they can activate their zero waste policy, which will indirectly contribute to Belgium's results in relation to Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u61	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u62	This proposal was adopted by the Special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development in application of Art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure. This proposal was adopted by the Special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development under Art. 76 of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u63	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (3319/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (3319/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would of course like to begin by referring to the written report on the numerous meetings of both the Interparliamentary Climate Dialogue and the discussions in the Chamber, in particular in the special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development. It's been a long way, but we got done in time. The first ever Interparliamentary Climate Dialogue took place in May 2017. In November 2017, we adopted a first joint statement on climate policy in Belgium with all the country's parliaments. That was the basis on which we continued to work at the beginning of this year in order to reach the present interparliamentary proposal for a climate resolution. First, in March 2018, there was the presentation by Mr Wittoeck, who presented us with the challenges of COP 24, in Katowice later this year. We then laid down the procedure among ourselves how, among other things, we would deal with the texts in the various parliaments. Here in the Federal Parliament we have produced a deadly text, the structure of which is still largely reflected in the final text. In our assembly, this text formed the basis for consultation in the months after, as well as for consultation in the other parliaments, which sometimes had much shorter or longer texts, with or without significant differences in content. The discussions obviously did not always run smoothly. There were many amendments, discussions and speech confusions. This did not always make things easier, but we ended up focusing on certain articles, especially Article 1, which I shall come back to later. Finally, we landed on 10 July 2018 during the fifth Interparliamentary Climate Dialogue, with a text of 70 articles in total, which I think is ambitious. Those articles were adopted in committee a few weeks ago and are in our plenary today. I would like to thank everyone for the constructive attitude and hope for broad support for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u65	Thank you for the report, Mr Janssens. You now have the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall now express my group's position. The issue of climate change must be placed high on the agenda. The IPCC's new climate report is yet another warning to Heads of Government not to avoid their responsibilities and make additional efforts to implement the Paris climate agreement and pursue its objectives. COP 24 in December 2018 will again be a key moment to determine how we want to achieve the objectives of Paris. This is what we want to obtain from the proposed interparliamentary climate resolution. We want to send clear messages to the representatives of our government and sub-governments at COP 24. There was a lot of discussion on Article 1, in particular on a higher CO2 reduction target by 2030. The compromise does not involve new percentages, but calls for a higher reduction target at European level than the current 40%. Furthermore, that article must show that we do not want to lag behind, but want to join the European cart together with several of our neighbours. We are working at European level, among other things, to introduce a carbon tax, and we are drawing attention to the necessary commitments of the shipping and aviation sector. In addition, we pay attention to funding and make some proposals by sector, such as mobility and energy. We also ask governments to involve parliaments in drawing up the 2030 National Energy and Climate Plan. The motion for a resolution is not just a piece of paper which we hand over to the relevant ministers of our governments. We do ask them to take its content into account in their policies and, of course, to COP 24 in Poland. The Members of all the political groups convey these messages. From Bart Tommelein, our minister across the street, not to mention him, I know he'd rather ride in Europe's match-ton than in the back. I hope, therefore, that the majority of the ministers from other groups, the Members of Parliament of which will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, have also heard the ambition and messages of the Members of this House. Even though the EU currently accounts for only 8% to 9% of global CO2 emissions, this does not mean that we cannot show ambition. An ambitious and well-thought-out climate policy offers both environmental and economic opportunities. Economic growth and the fight against climate change go hand in hand. Those are not my words, but they are from many organisations, including the United Nations. I would therefore ask all Members to support the motion for a resolution, as our group will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a proposal for an interparliamentary resolution. That is an animal that we have not seen too often here. I understand that this is the first time that we could vote on something like this. After all, we have been able to vote the violins right on this issue and every relevant parliament in our country has had its say in it. The resolution is actually based on a wider trajectory launched last year under the Interparliamentary Climate Dialogue. In November 2017, this led to a first joint statement by a number of Members of Parliament on the climate, but without being approved or dealt with by the parliaments themselves. One of the important elements of the declaration was the ambition to adopt an official joint position, in the form of a resolution, on where we want to go with the climate. How do we deal with this in the light of COP 24, which will take place later this year in Katowice? In any case, the Chamber had the honour and pleasure of managing the work on this matter in the special Committee on Climate Change. It was not always the easiest exercise to sum up the different visions coherently in a text that everyone could eventually support. As chairman of the committee, I have to say that we have had a serious problem with this. The text before us is therefore the result of intense discussions between the four parliaments in which the climate challenges have been addressed, with the links to the environment, energy and so on. As always, there are of course different sides to a story. It was not just about the effects of emissions on the climate, but also about how we deal with air quality, the mobility story, sustainability, the affordability and availability of our energy supply, the effects on our socio-economic fabric. However, it was also a challenge to give specific guidance to our representatives who are going to the climate conference. We wanted to set clear guide lines to determine our position there. In the past, in the various resolutions that have already been adopted in Parliament, we have very often focused on percentages and objectives, but much less on the road to them, on concrete and specific measures. In this sense, the resolution calls on the various governments to take a targeted position, both on climate issues in general at international level, as a player at the climate conference, and also at European level, where our voice in European decision-making is important in the context of developing commitments and objectives. An important part is therefore about the various sectors that need to be involved, both in the short term and in the medium term, because the contribution made by this resolution will of course not stop at the end of this COP 24; it will of course also go wider, while at the same time ensuring that specific issues are dealt with, specifically for COP 24. In terms of expectations and the approach, therefore, a number of issues are also raised. There are, of course, important aspects for my group. I'm not going to list them all, but I'm going to highlight some of them anyway. One of these important things is that climate policy can only be successful when it makes the link with sustainability. Not every climate reduction measure is always compatible with sustainability. It is important that the environment and human rights are also respected. That is a link which Parliament is also making very clear as an absolute condition. Excesses in this area are more likely to undermine climate policy in the longer term. By drawing the map of, for example, sustainable agriculture, deforestation and renewable energy, which must include sustainable exploitation, we are pushing the policy in the right direction. Another important aspect is that we are also aware, and it has already been mentioned a number of times, that the time of coal and lignite in Europe may well be behind us. Madam Minister, at the last climate conference, you were at the cradle of the Powering Past Coal Alliance, where we, together with other countries and regions, drew the map to move that kind of energy generation to the history books. Unfortunately, there are still many countries that are not yet ready for that logic, which this alliance has not yet endorsed. As you know, in 2013, the generation of electricity from stone carbide and lignite still led to nearly 23 000 premature deaths. That is something that we must stop talking about. That is why I think it is right that the text calls for an absolute effort to draw other countries, other entities and governments too, and to ensure that they move away from these coals and make the right choice. The link made in the resolution with biodiversity is also a very important one for us, because it will, of course, come under a lot of pressure from this climate disruption, which the previous speaker also mentioned. Think of the problem of endangered species. The resolution clearly calls for attention to be paid to this, because we know, for example, that the drought that is now taking place on the African continent, linked to, among other things, the climate disruption, is actually causing the decline of, for example, the population of the African elephant. Definitely unjudged use of our seas leads to the decline of marine life, more specifically the large marine mammals. We have to look at that too. The interparliamentary consultations also clearly indicated that climate resources should be used for climate policy. This can and must take many forms for us and is about investing in energy efficiency and using renewable energy, but also about avoiding carbon leakage and shifting emissions from our region to a number of regions that have different rules. In terms of objectives, too, we ensure that we look at intermediate objectives by sector, so that we can move forward and stay on course. However, we must be aware that not every sector can and will be approached in the same way. Certain challenges and technological opportunities vary by sector. I can imagine that there are some possible shifts between sectors as well. This is about scaling up, which suddenly leads to an industrial level, or to scaling down, because a number of things can be dealt with earlier within SMEs or artisan. This leads us to a more resilient economic fabric, which should allow the shift in absolute figures to remain possible, but we absolutely must go in the right direction. Finally, there has been a great deal of time in the exact and balanced formulation of the increase in the level of ambition of the European Union. We have rightly paid a great deal of attention to this. The link between the socio-economic impact and the environmental impact is also very important. Only when there are socio-economic and environmental benefits can one actively attract the cart and work towards the level of ambition in a sustainable way. I admit that there has been quite a bit of time in that regard, in order to strike a good balance. I am convinced that with what is ahead, on the one hand, we are giving oxygen to ambition, but on the other hand we are also providing the necessary capacity to take the right measures. In this respect, I can only welcome the agreement reached. I'll come to my decision. This text was adopted yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. If things go well, we'll do the same here. This should lead to the very first broad-based text on the climate which is adopted in parallel in, if I am not mistaken, a total of five parliaments. The text was already on the agenda of the Walloon Parliament's committee. It will be discussed at the beginning of next month in the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. I assume that the same will also happen in the Brussels Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, this text sets a number of milestones in climate policy and puts new emphasis on what we can work on. My group will, of course, approve this text. I hope the same of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, are we capable as a civilization, as a humanity, of looking at scientific evidence and acting accordingly? This is the question that history is asking us today. Scientific evidence is that described in successive IPCC reports over the past three decades. The last report submitted on 8 October is unequivocal. All the lights are red. Since the industrial era, the global temperature has already increased by about 1°C. According to scientific projections, at the current rate of warming, the threshold for a 1.5°C temperature increase set as a limit in the Paris Agreement will be reached between 2030 and 2052. Without inflection of the greenhouse gas emission curve, the increase in global temperature could reach 5.5°C by the end of the century. In other words, the status quo leads us straight to disaster and it is not tomorrow that the negative consequences will be felt. It is already a daily reality all over the world: temperature records broken year after year, heat waves, diluvian rains and devastating hurricanes testify every day that climate disruption is no longer a forecast but a reality experienced by people across the planet. We tend to say it's midnight minus one. Unfortunately, that is too optimistic. At the climate level, I fear it will be six o'clock in the morning. In other words, it's time to wake up! Colleagues, the latest IPCC report provides a more accurate picture of the consequences of 1.5°C warming or 2°C warming. It should be remembered that this was a very important point of debate at the Paris Conference in 2015. Part of the international community argued that the planet could be allowed to warm up by a maximum of 2°C, while others said that more effort was needed to keep the planet above 1.5°C. IPCC experts have just demonstrated that this is far from a theoretical debate and that there are real differences in impact between a warmer world of 1.5°C and a warmer world of 2°C. Differences in impact are at all levels. In terms of rising ocean levels, compared to a 1.5°C warming, ten million more people will suffer negative consequences in a 2°C warming. With regard to biodiversity, the IPCC indicates that twice as many vertebrate animals, three times as many insects and twice as many plants will be affected in the 2°C scenario. These are just two examples, but the IPCC indicates that the negative impacts of a 2°C warming occur at all levels. To avoid the worst, scientists calculate that global greenhouse gas emissions are expected to fall by 45% by 2030. This is a huge challenge, a race against time, as emissions have gone up again since 2017. According to the first data, they will unfortunately set a new record this year. Colleagues, we see the consequences of warming materialize before our eyes. In addition, we know the origin. The IPCC analyses are without appeal: the origin, the cause, the culprit is ourselves or, more precisely, it is our model of socio-economic development. Apart from a few forgers corrupted by lobbies, no one doubts man's responsibility for climate change. So we know the cause and the consequences of warming. It is our duty now to dare to learn the lessons and to act in accordance with this scientific finding. To that end, we already have a solid weapon, which has been developed for years of negotiations. I am, of course, referring to the Treaty of Paris. To deal with the climate crisis, we need international dialogue and solutions. The Paris Agreement has shown that 195 countries, with their own differences and interests, are able to come together and defend a common cause. In my view, the main merit of the Treaty of Paris is to set the objective of limiting global warming to 1.5°C by the end of the century. We have seen that the IPCC has confirmed the relevance of this ambitious goal. But to meet that limit, unprecedented efforts must be made. Currently, national contributions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions announced by individual countries are putting the planet on a warming path of more than 3.5°C. Such a level of warming could lead to an uncontrollable climate package. Additional measures will need to be taken. This is true for all the countries of the world and so it is also true for the European Union and even more so for Belgium. Colleagues, we have negotiated many hours in the Inter-Parliamentary Committee on Climate Change to arrive at a common text for COP 24. The result is positive because it is a consensus between the various competent parliaments, which in Belgium is not a small matter. But it is especially useful because it shows that all federal and regional parliamentarians demand that governments do more to combat climate change. It is a message that is addressed to all governments and therefore also to the federal government, Minister. This is important because it is true that during this Parliament, the federal government made choices that run counter to the climate emergency. This is, for example, flagrant in the area of mobility, Minister. Road transport is one of the major consumers of fossil fuels and therefore one of the main sources of greenhouse gas production. In the face of this fact, and far from taking the problem at arm's length, the Michel government has chosen to make 3 billion savings on the back of the rail. How can we imagine that people will drop their individual cars as the government disinvests in the punctuality and quality of trains? Such decisions must be definitively broken because they are incompatible with the scientific findings of the IPCC. I will take a second example to illustrate the fact that the federal government is lagging behind on the climate. For months, many European governments have said that the EU needs to increase its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets to meet the commitments made under the Paris Agreement. This is particularly the case in the Netherlands, France, Spain and Portugal. But not from Belgium. To date, the federal government has preferred to remain in the soft belly of European climate policy. We have seen this again recently when Belgium refused to join the Netherlands and Luxembourg in calling, on behalf of the Benelux, for a more ambitious European policy. We hope that with this interparliamentary resolution, the government will understand that there is no democratic support to continue to run away from its responsibilities in the field of climate. This resolution is a clear call to review the European target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030. In the face of the climate emergency, we must go faster, stronger, further. It is the common message of all federal and regional parliamentarians who support this text. Colleagues, this is an important challenge, but it is also an extraordinary opportunity to redefine our model of social development. The defence of the environment must go hand in hand with the improvement of the social conditions of our people. There will be no fight against global warming without positive social development for our people. And there will be no social well-being on a dead planet. The ecological transition will be solidary or not. For people will never agree to make efforts if it is to suffer more injustices, more inequality and more insecurity. We must seize our potential in terms of education, technical, technological skills, technological development and citizen awareness, to reinvent our production and consumption patterns so that they are compatible with a high level of social well-being and a quality environment. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress the importance of international solidarity. Industrialised countries are the main contributors to the accumulation of greenhouse gases. Yet it is the developing countries that suffer the most from it. Global warming exacerbates inequalities in industrialized and vulnerable countries. At the Copenhagen Conference, remember, in 2009, the industrialized countries set themselves the goal of mobilizing $100 billion a year by 2020 to support developing countries. The Paris Agreement confirms this amount of $100 billion. We must now move from speech to action. We must implement this commitment in order to enable vulnerable countries to cope with the consequences of warming. The funding provided must enable these countries to achieve their social development without taking the same polluting paths that we have taken in the past. It is a matter of climate justice and social justice. This will be one of the keys to the success of COP 24 and the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my speech by quoting Ban Ki-moon: "Climate change has occurred because of human behaviour. So it is natural for human beings to solve this problem. It may not be too late if we take decisive action today."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we can be pleased to finalize a work of several months. Last year, with partners from the various assemblies – the House, the Parliament of Wallonia, the Vlaams Parliament and the Brussels Parliament – we opted for a joint declaration in the run-up to COP 23 in Bonn. In that statement, it was stated that the various assemblies of the country would prepare a joint resolution enabling our country to take a position with a view to COP 24, which will be held in Poland in a few weeks' time in December. The aim is for all Parliaments to vote on the same text. This will be a first in Belgium and we can welcome it. It must be recognized that exercise as such has not always been easy. The different participants were not always on the same page, particularly on the issue of commitments. But we must remember that compromises have been reached. Many amendments have been tabled and there has been an effort by all groups to integrate most of them. We had this discussion in committee and I really want to thank all the participants for the joint work that was done at the various meetings. A draft work had already been prepared for COP 21 where, unfortunately, we had not been able to find common ground. I sincerely believe that we can congratulate ourselves today on having been able to write a text which may not be in line with everyone's expectations but which, in the meantime, has the merit of existing and representing our country's will to move forward on this matter in Poland. Our group believes that this interparliamentary resolution is a step forward. Others may say that it is not ambitious enough. I can understand that. I have repeatedly pointed out, as a representative of the Reform Movement, that I am rather seeking to have an extremely realistic approach by integrating achievable objectives. This has given rise to major discussions during the various committees, simply because others thought that, if we did not set sufficiently high targets, we would not already be able to reach those given to us today. That's another vision of things. Personally, I consider that we must go towards the reachable and stay on the rational. Let it not hold, no matter what this vision of things, the most important thing is to have a common text and to go together towards the same objective. Our group wants climate policies to be adapted to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This will include climate finance. Belgium, as a Member State of the European Union, is one of the largest contributors to the Adaptation Fund, which makes it possible to fulfil the commitments made under the Paris Agreement, in particular towards the poorest and most vulnerable countries, as my colleague Senesael also pointed out. I would like to draw attention to the importance of continuing to make efforts, and to strengthen climate policy, towards the transition to a low-carbon economy, including through the use of green bonds. These are a key tool in financing this transition. I would like to point out that our country has issued one of the first green state bonds in the world. Through these bonds, we have attracted almost EUR 4.5 billion, which can finance these transition policies in many sectors. These green bonds cover many areas such as energy efficiency, transport, renewable energy, but also the circular economy and biodiversity. I'm going to burden sharing. A complex intra-Belgian agreement makes it possible, through its implementation, to make a public financial contribution of around EUR 50 million per year until 2020. We know that this issue has been extremely hot, and that negotiations have taken a long time. Here too, we can welcome a result that is in the common interest. It is also necessary to build partnerships with the private sector, or with other authorities at European level, for example the European Investment Bank, in order to attract additional funding so that innovative initiatives are taken to combat climate change. As the Prime Minister recently pointed out, in his policy statement, it is still possible to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. This will require a profound change in our behaviour. It is important for everyone to be aware of this. We must all mobilize. In this context, it is worth recalling that last March the government adopted the inter-federal energy strategy, which for the first time – I insist – establishes a common energy vision, which aims to respect the Paris Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore in a few weeks' time in Poland that our country – both the federal state and the federated entities – will have to join its European partners in a desire for success. The success of COP 24 will require the adoption of the rules for the implementation of the Paris Agreement. It remains to be hoped that each Member State will make every effort to achieve the common objective. One last time, I would like to thank all the colleagues present during the various interparliamentary committees and committees. I would also like to thank the successive Presidents for leading our work. These should ultimately lead to a text which will be voted on by all parliaments and which will enable Belgium to make considerable progress, provided that we implement the recommendations and decisions that we are going to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u70	"We must learn to live together as brothers or perish together as fools," with the winged words of Martin Luther King, Roland Moreau, head of the Belgian environmental administration, said goodbye this year. He referred to the lack of intra-Belgian cooperation in the field of climate and energy. The most striking example is still the agreement on the distribution of climate costs and greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2013-2020. Ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that, after six years of fighting, we left for the Paris climate negotiations without an internal agreement. Under international ridicule we were declared fossil of the day. In order to never have to see that humiliating show again, the various Belgian parliaments have been regularly in an Interparliamentary Climate Consultation since June 2017. Several colleagues have already referred to this. That consultation gave birth to its second resolution just before the summer. The text we are voting on today is the result of a six-month search for compromises, for the greatest common denominator. The water was sometimes very deep. For my group, the text could have been more ambitious in a number of areas. Mr Janssens, you said it was an ambitious text. We have a text and let us call it a start, but he certainly could be more ambitious. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to support the text wholeheartedly, because it provides us with a basis for better cooperation and greater ambition in the years to come. We will also have to show greater ambition. In the text presented, all parliaments are in favour of a Belgian role in the European Climate Summit. Everyone agrees to work towards an increase in the European 2030 targets. Everyone agrees to demand a more voluntaristic emission reduction than 40% by 2030. How much ambition should there be, the parliaments and also the political groups disagree. In the meantime, we have all agreed on the need for greater ambition. And yet we have seen very little of that in practice. Belgium seems to be pursuing a policy of empty seats in the climate, and I am now addressing the ministers. Colleagues, Belgium has four climate ministers. However, no minister was present at the Benelux Talanoa Dialogue of 24 September 2018. Belgium has four climate ministers. However, no minister had time to vote in the Council on the stricter emission standards for cars. Colleagues, Belgium has four climate ministers. However, there was no minister at the Pre-COP ministerial last week, for which only a handful of countries were invited, to prepare for the December 2018 Climate Summit. Colleagues, Minister, Minister, that is a disgrace to me. I would ask the government to accept its democratic responsibility from now on and, following the example of all the Belgian parliaments, I assume that we will approve the present motion for a resolution here too. Members of the government, do not just support the text. Execute him, too. After all, it has not looked better for the climate since the last summer. In early October 2018, the IPCC came out with a destructive climate report. We are not on course at all to limit the warming to 1.5°C. Even 2°C is not within reach. The text before us states that we must re-examine Belgian ambitions on the basis of the conclusions of the IPCC report. Ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that we have discussed the right wording for a very long time. According to the majority parties, the conclusion had to be that we would only do so after the decisions of the IPCC report. Now, let us begin now. Immerses, conclusions liggen op tafel. In particular, these conclusions indicate that we need to show greater ambition. Belgium is not a frontrunner at all today. In the European ranking, we must put 15 Member States, including all our neighbours, first. Belgian emissions have increased since 2014. That is why I ask the government to work from tomorrow on the climate laws, decrees and decrees promised in the text before us, which are a roadmap towards decarbonisation in 2050. Work with the regions and create an integrated national climate and energy plan instead of a patchwork of Flemish, Walloon, Brussels and federal mini-plans. Work together with the majority and opposition MEPs to ensure that the chalk lines remain in place in the coming decades, rather than starting over at every change of government. Let us not wait another six years for a burden sharing between the federal level and the regions, but let us really start today. Make sure that the Belgian contribution to international climate finance in 2019 is higher than in 2018 and that it is not deducted from the budget of Development Cooperation. After all, there are already climate refugees today and there will be many more tomorrow if we do not tackle the problem. Above all, make sure that we are never again ashamed of ourselves because of our absence, our abstention or our vote against at very important moments to strengthen European climate ambition. Colleagues, the IPCC report was a wake-up call. The government needs to wake up urgently. Responsibility must now be taken up, not for political reasons, but for scientific reasons. Mr Senesael has already referred to this. It's not a suggestion. It's a warning. As soon as the text before us is adopted, our group expects the government parties too to comply with that resolution and, above all, that they will implement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, others have said this before me in this rostrum, it is a historic moment and an important moment. Let us first stop at the fact that this is a historic moment and question historians in the absence of our oldest parliamentarians! We apologized to Mr. De Croo, I think, but I am still going to question Mr Cheron, who is a historian and perhaps also Mr Delperee. I think that we have never lived in this House by adopting an own-initiative text negotiated and discussed between all the assemblies, the Regions and the federal government being associated. I think, Mr President, this is a great first. Mr Cheron, you confirm. The services will also be able to tell us. In this sense, it is indeed a great first and I insist not only on the historical aspect, but also on the very principle of having been able to discuss and reach agreement on a text between all these assemblies on climate issues. What more beautiful subject, what more necessary topic was there to start this kind of parliamentary work!- Is that what you're saying? It is indeed the mother of all battles: the climate, the climate issue! If I want to start with this, it is simply because if we can't control the climate, if we can't win this fight, this battle, any economic policy, any social policy, any public health policy, any mobility policy and any migration policy is impossible. It is only by taking charge of climate policy, by setting ambitions, by working on the concrete, by operationalizing the measures envisaged in Paris that we can imagine a social future, an economic future, a future of public health and a future of migration in all of our countries. Climate policy, whether we like it or not, conditions everything else. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there are three times as many people displaced because of the climate as there are no people displaced because of the conflicts. Three times more! I do not dare to repeat here the figures put forward by the United Nations for the decades to come. Building a sustainable migration policy (I would have told Mr Franken who is not present but you will tell her, Madam Minister) is unthinkable without leading and without winning the battle against climate change. There are 18 million jobs behind this challenge, which we are currently missing because of the lack of measures, precise content and proactive content to combat climate change. Building a sustainable economic policy is impossible without a battle against climate change. Today there is the development of vector diseases - Lyme disease, malaria, dengue fever... - by the displacement of insects driven by climate disruption. Mr Vanden Burre, in large cities where pollutants are concentrated, there is an increasing number of coronary heart disease, premature childbirth, asthmatic children and the elderly who die prematurely. At home, in Belgium, every climate wave (2003, 2006 and again this year) is +/- 2,500 premature deaths. By comparison, in 2014, 727 people died on our roads from a road accident. Building a public health policy is impossible without waging a battle against climate change. I could multiply the examples. I won't do it here. Today, in the 21st century, everything brings us back to this central issue. Meeting the climate challenge will have a positive impact, including from a budgetary point of view, on all other policies. I spoke to you about the 18 million jobs identified by the IPCC in its report. I would also like to recall the WHO (World Health Organization) figure. Every euro invested in environmental measures is €5 saved in health care measures. I repeat, 1 euro invested, 5 euros saved in health policies. The good news doesn't stop there! Taking action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will, at the same time, lead to improved health, poverty reduction and job relocation at home. In conclusion, combating climate change means winning on three fronts: social, economic and environmental. It is in this sense, Mr Van Hees, that the Ecolo-Groen Group, their Members – note that the regional assemblies were associated with the work – have invested in what is perhaps one of the most important texts of this end of the legislature. We have put our weight to discuss with our opposition colleagues, with the majority and to influence the text as much as possible, by tabling numerous amendments. Colleagues, you will probably remember the first text that was submitted to us. I don't dare to consult him anymore. With the amendments that we were able to introduce, as my colleague Temmerman said, we can see our opposition work as useful. And today there is a text on the table that needs to be adopted and that must block once and for all the ambitions and orientations that we want to achieve, even if, in the short term, we will have to draw from it consequences that the text does not mention at the moment. This text is the result of all these discussions between the assemblies; it involves 10 political parties; it is already voted in the Flemish Parliament, soon in the Walloon Parliament and in Brussels and today, I hope, in the Federal Parliament. We can be pleased with this result, even if the amendments could have been more precise, particularly in the short term. Of course, this is not the text that we have tabled, but the essence is in the current version. In point 2: "The need to take measures which, in order to achieve the objectives, must be socially just". It is a dimension on which we have placed a great deal of emphasis. In point 3: "Supporting the least developed countries in combating the adverse effects of climate change". In point 12: "A higher price on carbon". Here, Mr. Van Hees, I would like to ask you directly. You can smile, but it's an essential aspect. I heard your comments at the most recent committee meeting. I'm saying "the last one," because you've never been seen before. Yes, I know you're a small group. You do it to us every time. A total of seven meetings were held. You never attended, except for the last one, to indicate that you were against the text. As I said to your colleague Hedebouw, climate is a fundamental issue. I know it's impossible for you to attend all the meetings. I know that. However, at the very least, as we reached the end of the discussion and needed all the strength to introduce our last amendments, particularly those aimed at quantifying the 2050 target, your absence did not help us. You can smile, but she didn't help the climate. When, moreover, I read your arguments to explain why you will vote against this text, claiming that the carbon tax will help businesses, you have to explain it to us. I assume that you have, at least a little bit, followed the discussions led, in particular, by the Environment and Public Health FPS, on the direction Belgium can give to this taxation in order to penalise the companies that pollute and support those that opt for the ecological, social and sustainable transition. Mr Van Hees, among the four arguments you gave at the last meeting – because you didn't come when you had to fight – you justified your opposition by arguing that carbon taxation, as it stands, was going to help businesses. That's not true! You cannot explain why you used this argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u72	Mr President, I will of course explain myself earlier. Mr Nollet, you insist on my absence, but I prefer to discuss the substance. The carbon tax is an indirect tax and we have never said that it favours large companies. It was said that it would harm the citizen because he would be subject to indirect taxation. Indirect taxation is the worst in society. The carbon tax is antisocial. Furthermore, the CO2 quota system favours companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u73	We're talking about the carbon tax, don't mix it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u74	I said and I repeat today that CO2 quotas favour businesses and the carbon tax harms people socially.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u75	What you said is in the report. I'll read the report again. That's what you said in committee: "The PTB is opposed, because such a tax (carbon tax) benefits businesses." I think you have not understood anything, not only the issues at stake, but also the measures to be implemented. Everywhere, in countries that fight climate change, the carbon tax is used to guide the economy. Companies that change their operating methods, develop processes and move towards cleaner processes are supported. The others, those that remain anchored in oil, are punished. That is the meaning of the carbon tax. If you don't want to understand it, stay away from the challenges ahead! Stay clear of climate challenges! There's no problem. Keep voting against! But to say that today's carbon tax benefits businesses is not to understand anything about all the work that has been done for years by the IPCC and our scientists. I wanted you to hear it, too. At one point, that's enough! Mr Van Hees, you have used another element to justify your voting against this motion for a resolution. I'm quoting you. Don't say that's not what you said: it's in the report! "A third observation concerns the need for more investment. The Federal Planning Office has calculated that it is necessary to invest EUR 11 billion a year in order to achieve this objective. As far as the text is concerned, as far as investment is concerned, point 39 refers to an increase of EUR 50 million." But did you read the text? Point 39 refers to international financing, the Belgian contribution to international climate finance. This has nothing to do with the 11 billion investments needed elsewhere. I think, Mr Van Hees, that when you come to the gallery earlier, you will have to be much more precise. These are not slogans. It's about being concrete. What should Belgium do, how and when, to be useful in the climate debate? Mr Van Hees, after seven meetings you never came to, you say that you are going to vote against it because it would have taken up to 11 billion, whereas that is something other than the 50 million targeted for development. Frankly, I think you're going far! That's why I wanted to point him out. But you will come to the gallery, and I will listen to your answer later. No problem! I will be at my bench, I will be attentive and I will respond point by point to what you have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u76	How much do you advance? It is clear that you do not hold the 11 billion from the Plan Office. How much do you come with then?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u77	Mr Van Hees, if you had been present during the proceedings, as we have, you would have listened to Mr Peter Wittoeck, who came at the beginning of the committee, to tell us how the SPF considers Belgium's rightful contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u78	How much?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u79	Since several assumptions can be taken into account, the amount varies between EUR 250 million and EUR 400 million at maturity. Today, we are 50 million euros. You've seen what's in point 19. That is something we have been fighting about, particularly with Mrs Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u80	Is the amount indicated in the text?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u81	Let's work on the text! Look at the text!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u82	Is this amount in the text?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not arguing like this!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u84	Mr President, I have no problem with that. That's interesting. What the associations were asking us, Mr Van Hees – if you were a little listening to what is being said, listening to what the Climate Coalition was asking us, members of the opposition, especially Mr Senesael who was present in committee – was to introduce the fact that additional and additional funding was needed. These two words, Mr Van Hees, you find them in the text. They're there, not because you were there to fight! You were on the street or I don't know where! We are paid to be in Parliament. Our first job is to be here. Our first job is to table amendments, work on them and get them adopted. I would point out that, in this case, the majority adopted them. They are now included in the text that the government will have to apply. These two words "additional and additional" were the central point on this aspect – there are others – that the Climate Coalition has communicated to all parliamentarians. Mr Van Hees, I do not understand how you can claim that the climate contribution issue is not good enough when the essential elements are there. But I'll listen carefully to what you're saying. That's how I get to my last element. You say that the proposal does not contain quantified objectives. This is your fourth and final argument to explain that you will vote against the motion for a resolution. Did you read the proposal? Point 1 of the motion for a resolution sets a 95 % reduction in greenhouse gases as a climate target for Belgium by 2050. Do you know what the original text provided for? It provided for a reduction of 80 per cent. Were you there to fight for a 95% reduction? No. Colleagues were present and this reduction was achieved by 95%. This is included in the text. The N-VA also adopted these 95 per cent. What is your ambition in this regard? Is that 120%? Is that 140%? Today, with a reduction of 95% by 2050, this is the most ambitious text adopted by a European country. But I agree with what a colleague said. Indeed, for 2030, there are no figures. Were you present to fight for numbers? You weren't there. As far as we are concerned, we have been present seven times and we have obtained the 2050 figure, which necessarily requires us, with retro-planning, to have higher ambitions for 2030 than the 40% currently specified in the European text. At this level, we do have regrets, but we are in the fight where we have to be, namely in Parliament, where we are paid to do our job. What is wrong is that if this resolution is correct and ambitious compared to 95%, the government does not apply it. It is also our job to point out this fact, which I am doing, Madam Minister. There's something I don't understand, minister, and I've already told you. Although this resolution was not yet adopted in plenary session, it was already adopted in the House Committee as well as in the committee of other parliaments and was adopted unanimously yesterday in plenary session of the Flemish Parliament. The parliamentarians of the Flemish Parliament who took part in our work all agreed at the last meeting of the joint committee. But you, in the government, together with all the governments, have never relied on this text to say that what is in it, and which has been adopted at the level of the Inter-Parliamentary Committee, could be part of the declarations of governments at European level. I am not happy with the way in which you do not benefit from the work that has been done by Parliament. I explained to you, talking to Mr. Van Hees in the way we fought to get these elements of the text. Why, while this text has been adopted by all, yes by all, including the majority in Flanders, including opposition to the Federal Parliament, including the Walloon Parliament and Brussels, are you not able to say that, in a government statement, you will take back what the parliamentarians have achieved, namely those famous 95%. That will have to be explained here in the gallery, minister. Why, while there is an agreement of all political parties, apart from the PTB - but I suppose it is not the PTB that will dictate your policy - do you not agree to include as what parliamentarians have obtained in the text of your statement? In this case, you would not have had a problem with the Netherlands and Luxembourg. I assume you are aware that today the European Parliament has adopted a resolution that aligns itself with this figure of 95% and declines it to 55% by 2030, which we have not achieved. We fought for it. This is not in the text. They marked "more ambitious than 40%". But the figure of 55% has just been adopted at European level. With these elements in mind, I believe that your government bears a heavy responsibility because it had the tools, weapons and content to go further, and you did not. From a climate point of view, it's criminal. Indeed, when the work is done, you have to use it and you do not use it! In this regard, I believe that the government bears a heavy responsibility. Indeed, the statement itself says this. I invite you to read point 67 of this report, Madam Minister. "To defend, within the European delegation, an ambitious position for European action in the negotiations, with a view to making real progress in the negotiations and ensuring that the Belgian Government's ambitions are in line with the objectives of the agreement and the content of this declaration." And you don't do that! That is where the government is lacking!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u85	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u86	I don't know. But finally, the colleagues have reminded him. I can go around again. I remind you that in July you do not agree at European level and that the Environment Ministers do not have the mandate in Belgium to ensure this. When you are asked what goals you are signing, you are more interested in the specific objectives of Poland, the Visegrád countries which are now in the bottom of the European peloton. Belgium holds with these countries, while next door eight countries (Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal and three others) draw Europe and ask Belgium to take the same position. You do not do it, whereas what is asked is simply to adopt, at the level of government, what parliamentarians have been able to do. There, you bear a heavy responsibility, when you had enough to transpose at European level what could have been done at the level of the Belgian Parliament. Colleagues, you feel that there is anger in my home because of the government's inaction on this issue. But this anger, I would also like to transform it positively into a will, since the text will be voted on today, the desire to think that the message sent until yesterday by the governments must, tomorrow, be different. If we have been able to reach almost unanimous agreement on such objectives, you must support them. Now this must be the position of governments and not just the position of parliaments. That is the meaning of the resolution. These are not words in the air. Today we are facing a central objective. Everyone says it in the election campaign, but you don't translate it into action, once the campaign is over! You know that, Madam Minister! You're in a good position to know! It is this kind of text that the voter is looking at today, not just to vote them, but to know how they are translated and put them into practice. The fact that your government is absent will inevitably be punished someday. I'm telling you and I'm telling you again, lean on this text! Use it! He's here! It is encrypted and has short-term consequences, even if they are not listed. You can no longer remain in climate apathy with the vote that will take place today, do not dislike the PTB-GO! who won't vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u87	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here two weeks after the publication of the last IPCC report. Two weeks after its publication, but above all with the presentation, as my colleagues have said, of more than seven meetings, seven intensive committees in which we had the pleasure of working with parliamentarians of all levels of power, who each came with their requests. It is a step to be marked with a white stone because, if I remember correctly, this is the first time this has happened, at least I have not known any others. To return to the IPCC report of about two weeks ago - I will not go into the details of what it predicts if we do not do everything in our power to limit global warming - if global warming is not contained, it promises multiple consequences such as rising waters, the disappearance of many animal and plant species, the intensification of hurricanes, and I pass on. This is a very serious situation. This reality today reflects our obligation to future generations. It is not simply an obligation of means to be implemented but an obligation of result. It is that of providing a sustainable environment for all and a decent quality of life with preserved biodiversity. If this threat may still seem distant - we see it on television but it does not concern us, it is for other continents, other countries - it is already well present in the world. Let us recall the figure provided by the IDMC (Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre) which says that more than 18 million people have already been displaced around the world as a result of extreme weather events! Aware of this reality, the parliamentarians of the various legislative assemblies of the country met to reach the resolution proposed today in our votes. Of course, everything did not go smoothly and compromises had to be made. But they have had the tendency to pull upwards, in the sense that all parliamentarians have the will to involve democratic legitimacy and to give ambitiously the need to combat global warming and to present to the action of all governments an exhaustive list of measures to be implemented in order to achieve this ambition. In the resolutions that we are going to adopt today, more than 70 items have been foreseen. There are precise figures, figures that draw us up and that reflect a willingness to move forward. If the text was adopted unanimously in committee, I regret that the PTB automatically excludes itself from this resolution by a chill or a denial. I can't accept it. This attitude puts you outside, Mr. Van Hees. You have not participated in any commission! The measures contained in this resolution also reflect the richness of this text, since they have been proposed by parliamentarians of different sensitivities, different parliaments and transcending divisions. I would like to mention some of them which we have stressed during the discussions and which are particularly important: the preference for alternatives to company cars to reduce taxes on work, the inclusion of a chapter on the impacts of climate change on the Belgian economy in the annual reports produced by the National Bank, and the awareness of the general public of the carbon impact of consumer products. I could quote a lot more, but in the seventeen items, everyone finds themselves in everyone and everyone finds themselves there globally to have a will to move forward. These measures also have a degree of equity in them, as they require efforts from all economic actors, namely individuals, public authorities and, of course, businesses. It is a matter for everyone to roll up their sleeves to get there. It goes without saying that these measures and recommendations will have no effect if they remain a dead letter. That is why I ask you and your entire government, the minister, to make them live, to work proactively and concretely to put them in place. I am personally and we are convinced that the challenge ahead of us is far too serious to reinforce the action that society and future generations expect of us in small games of opposition and the overwhelming majority. I really hope that the vote on this resolution will sign the advent of a new era, that of the end of ambiguous and minimalist positions on the subject. In this connection and in order for some to vote in their soul and conscience, I would like to read to you an excerpt from § 70 which relates to the Talanoa Dialogue: "The Federal and Federated Parliaments of Belgium ask governments at all levels of power, federal, regional and Community, to work towards its establishment, to support the initiative and to play a convening role in the search for compromise. Only then can we reach a solution for future generations and for our planet." I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, since much has already been said today, reminding you too, Madam Minister, that ecology and economy are not antagonistic and that to flee forward, one often ends up in the wall. I therefore hope that the vote on this resolution will sign Belgium's return to the forefront of environmental and climate fighting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u88	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while the IPCC is sounding the alarm, one of its former Vice-Presidents calls for a climate revolution and environmental associations are mobilizing forcefully, it is pleased that our country finally joins those who advocate a more ambitious European climate policy, so that the objectives of the Paris Agreement do not remain dead letter. Indeed, there is an urgent need. Staying below the 1.5°C global temperature rise bar is a first-rate issue. A 2°C warming is even more dangerous than we thought in Paris, at the risk of our climate becoming uncontrollable. The good news is that keeping it below 1.5°C is still possible, provided that it involves all sectors and invests heavily. Sustainable change is at this cost. This motion for a resolution has the merit of associating the different levels of power of our federal state and bringing a consensus message; this is just a few weeks away from COP 24. In his speech on the State of the Union, the Prime Minister was very discreet about the climate issue. I confess that this was a real disappointment. Moreover, in the management of these cases, our country has built a reputation that is not flattering at European level. Firstly, last July, he abstained at a meeting of European ambassadors on the issue of increasing the Union's renewable energy ambitions. Then, at a meeting of the Permanent Representatives Committee, like Hungary and Poland, Belgium voted against raising the energy efficiency target for the 28 members of the European Union. You will agree that these two facts are not conducive to confidence in our ability to meet the climate challenge, but rather to distrust. In terms of short-term objectives, our country has been wrong for too long. With a 7.2% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990, the national target of 15% reduction by 2020 simply becomes a chimera. What has the government, the Prime Minister, undertaken to avoid such a scenario? Take the Interfederal Energy Pact, one of your government's major goals! He had to seal our common commitments. It must be noted that this symbol, to which your government held so much, today has the flavor of bitter failure. Our group will vote on this resolution, which is the result of interparliamentary dialogue on the climate, as it urgently calls on your government and all public authorities to shoulder their responsibilities. It is urgent to react in the sense that we all want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we need a revolution! It's not just the PTB that says it. "The future is still in our hands, but if we want to save the climate, we need a revolution." This is the conclusion of Jean-Pascal Van Ypersele, climatologist and one of the authors of the new IPCC report, released two weeks ago. Mr. Nollet, I understand you're nervous about this. I understand that you are obliged to count our presences at a particular meeting because, in substance, you are wrong. You are wrong because the environment is your core business and this text is largely insufficient. And as you know, you feel compelled to tackle issues of presence, knowing that we are only two Members and knowing that I do not know how to be present in two committees simultaneously. You are wrong, Mr Nollet, because green capitalism does not work! Believing that the market will solve environmental problems, it does not work and you see it. At least you should see it, if you were a little consistent. But it is true that criticizing the market, when you drag the center-right electorate, when you negotiate alliances with the MR and Groen, for its part, with the N-VA, is difficult. You cannot afford your environmental discourse because you blindly trust the market. In fact, we can see it in the nuclear file. You got, a long time ago, a law to get out of nuclear power, but what are we going to do to replace it? The deal will say it, you said, of course. And what do we see today? The deal didn't work and won't work. Sorry, Mr. Nollet! What does it take to make it work? Let the policy take its responsibilities and guide the energy transition, without giving its trust to the market!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u90	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u91	We have to follow the policy: Ecolo came out before the PTB. Do you know about this, Mr. Calvo? But to return to the environment, in the first paragraph of the resolution before us, we can read that "we are aware of the rapid worsening of global climate change". There is even a call for strong and rapid action. Until then, everything's fine. But when we look at the whole text, we have to see that it is in fact only a umpteenth resolution in which we say that we are aware of the urgency and the magnitude of the problem. We even have some good ideas, but we do not have the ambition to act quickly and ambitiously, nor to radically change course. I will indeed take up the four points I have raised in committee. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u92	Yes, I was here on a commission! I note that Mr Chastel understands smoking a little. It's an innocent spirit that falls here and discovers a fumistry. First axis: we must act quickly. What science is telling us is that it is still possible to keep under control the consequences of global warming, but that this possibility continues to shrink and that the more we wait, the heavier the price will be. The IPCC's conclusions are clear: to avoid a catastrophic climate change, it is imperative to limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C. To achieve this, greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced by between 55 and 65 % in 2030, compared to 1990. That's what it takes. What does the resolution propose to us? Belgium is asked to advocate, on a voluntary basis, a more ambitious greenhouse gas reduction target than the 40% planned by 2030. What is a more ambitious target than 40%? How much is it? Why not demand, as the Netherlands has done, a minimum reduction target of 55%? Not even the 65% that is the maximum IPCC margin, but already the 55% that the Netherlands claimed. Perhaps because you did not want to rush the FEB, which warned Belgium against "a too ambitious and disproportionate objective", and which said that this objective "could not harm the competitiveness of the industry", a phrase which is also texted in the recitals of this proposal. Is competitiveness mentioned in the resolution or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u93	Mr Van Hees, do you know what the FEB is about by saying that the objectives are too ambitious? It targets 95 per cent in 2050. That is what is in the text, at point 2: 95%!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u94	You can say that the FEB is against a measure, just the one in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u95	I'm just saying that the ETF considered that the target of 95% greenhouse gas reduction by 2050 was unachievable and that it was better to stay on a target of 80% to 95%. In committee, we adopted an amendment to the effect that now it is not 80-95%, as the N-VA text proposed, but 95%. Doesn't that make you happy? Tell me for once that makes you happy!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u96	What's weird, Mr. Nollet, is that you're not talking about the 2030 target. That's something that bothers you a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u97	Let's talk about the 2030 target.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u98	Talking about 2050 is easy. I can talk about 2300.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u99	No, it's not easy!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u100	I can say that in the 2300s or the fourth millennium, it will require an objective of the same magnitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u101	Mr Van Hees, I assume you've done a minimum of mathematics. When we talk about regression...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u102	That's the point! How are you going to achieve this percentage in 2050, if in 2030 you don't get a result?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u103	Let me finish my sentence!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u104	All of a sudden, there will be a burst between 2049 and 2050?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u105	Mr. Van Hees, let Mr. Nollet speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u106	It is expected that -95 per cent in 2050, while by 2020, for example, it will be -15 per cent. Do you think it's enough to wait until 2049 to reach the percentage expected in 2050?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u107	That's what I think you think!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u108	What does the text say? The text says that the current 40 per cent is insufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u109	That's not enough, but we don't set a level!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u110	I don't think you understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u111	A longer-term level can be set, but not for 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u112	I will no longer interrupt you, but I just ask you to accept and acknowledge here in the rostrum that the Climate Coalition considers that the text as negotiated after amendment must be adopted. Do you know her? It is made up of associative actors, trade unions and small businesses that want to mobilize for the climate. The text sets out a position against which we can make a regression between today's -15 % emissions and tomorrow's -95 % emissions. When these people ask you to vote for this text, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u113	We are indeed in dialogue with them. We heard their call. Furthermore, we believe that it is irresponsible to vote in favour of this text. We have therefore decided to abstain, but not to vote against it. This is the furthest we can go, because of the flagrant lack of ambition of this text. We have to recognize him. If you wanted a scoop, here's one: we won't vote against it, but we will abstain. Secondly, massive investments are needed. The IPCC is also very clear, saying that the ecological transition would not take place without the necessary investments. The Plan Bureau, as Mr Nollet pointed out earlier, estimated that in order to achieve the ‐95 % emission scenario for 2050, additional investment of EUR 11 billion per year would be required. What is the amount indicated in this resolution, compared to $11 billion? As you said earlier, the $50 million is the contribution to the international effort. If it pleases you, the text could mislead us. I come back to my question: how much? You couldn't answer earlier. The resolution does not specify any amount. The Plan Bureau said 11 billion and the resolution did not say anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u114	The resolution says 95% and 95% is 11 billion!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u115	But how do you get to that 95%? That is where the question lies! It's easy to say "in 2050, 95%". But how do we get there?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u116	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u117	But certainly not with you either! We saw him with the nuclear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u118	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u119	Mr. Nollet, that you get away with a pirouette is revealing! Third axis: There needs to be a radical change. In this respect, we will also compare what the scientific experts say with the motion for a resolution. The scientific experts expressed their views on the method of carrying out the 1.5°C scenario. It's not the business as usual that's going to lead us there! No, according to the IPCC, radical transitions are needed in all sectors of our society: energy, industry, transport, infrastructure. The motion for a resolution still does not contain any criticism or questioning of current policies to combat global warming. On the contrary! Belgium is called upon to continue to play a pioneering role. But how is that a pioneer role? It's ridiculous! The latest figures show that Belgium is lagging behind and will not meet its 2020 targets. Between 1990 and 2017, our country reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by only about 1% per year. Worse still, under this government, from 2014 to 2016, our country has seen its emissions increase! Congratulations, the government! It is therefore time to recognise the totally inadequate nature of existing policies and to identify the main cause of this failure. Why can't the radical change that is needed happen, despite our scientific knowledge that we have had for years to achieve it? Because when it comes to climate, it is not the law of nature that reigns, but the law of the market. Indeed, this resolution contains ideas, for example that climate policy cannot disrupt the market or the need to preserve the competitiveness of Belgian companies. This can be seen in particular with the ETS system, the trading system for emission allowances, which is not called into question in this resolution. Yet, not only does the system not work, but worse: it even allows multinationals to get rich on the backs of the climate and the community. It is true that the PTB is indeed the only one who opposes this system. We propose to introduce a binding logic of real emission reduction, defined sector by sector, with sanctions for polluters who do not meet the targets. When we know that climate conferences are sponsored by multinationals and that they, the biggest polluters, are even around the negotiating table, let me have doubts about the possibility of getting out of binding standards! I will not take the example of the SNCB, as one colleague did, where this government has cut its allocation for EUR 3 billion and comes with a management contract that the minister has not even dared to present to us in committee so terrible it must be. Rail is being broken in this country, where energy policy is needed, especially in the area of public transport. Fourth and final point, it is not for consumers to pay the bill, Mr Nollet. For us, eco-taxes are not the solution. The resolution takes up the proposal to introduce a carbon tax. You talked about it earlier. The PTB opposed this proposal. If we do not replace the ETS system, the introduction of a new carbon tax would simply mean that large polluters will continue to keep low-cost emission allowances, and hence the right to pollute, where small consumers will be forced to pay the bill. This is doubly unfair. First of all, the consumer is thus given responsibility for a pollution which it does not cause. Secondly, the tax affects the least well-off, as this type of indirect taxation generally does. You still don't understand? I already explained to you earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u120	I'm talking about CO2 taxation, you're talking about ETS quotas. Just explain to me the connection you're making between the two!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u121	I already explained it to you earlier. Companies benefit from quotas. Some even get richer thanks to these quotas. They will continue to benefit from the system. Consumers, on the other hand, will pay a carbon tax which is a profoundly unfair tax. Do you deny that the carbon tax is profoundly unfair? Is it proportional?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u122	Mr. Van Hees, I propose that you read...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u123	Is it a proportional, progressive or regressive tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u124	The answer can be found in the report prepared and disseminated by the Environment FPS, which contributed to a debate on carbon taxation put in place by the government. Depending on the sectors (transport, heating, etc.)), it explains the best way to introduce a carbon tax to target polluters. I invite you to read it, because I assume that you have not yet had the time, since you are very busy with demonstrations and other activities outside Parliament. That's normal. This document is quite essential, as it will form the basis for developing carbon taxation as we want it to be, that is, fair, equitable and with an impact on polluting companies. Of course, it is with your emission quota that you could target only the small consumer. However, in the fine work that has been carried out by the SPF Environnement, you will see how – and we will discuss it again in committee with the minister – we can achieve the objective of carbon taxation without, precisely, penalising people who need support to isolate their homes. Thanks to this tax, we will also support those who will travel by public transport rather than by company car. Mr Van Hees, instead of hearing you say something stupid, I invite you to resume the debate once you have read the report. In this way, you will see how we can very equitably finance the necessary climate policies. Indeed, you know as well as I do as a poor person, if she is not helped, will not isolate her housing. However, with a carbon tax such that it can be applied to the insulation of homes, it can do something to reduce its bill. We shall therefore resume the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u125	Mr Nollet, a tax that is just socially, is a progressive tax, according to which the higher the income, the higher the tax rate. Is that the case with the carbon tax, Mr. Nollet? Is it progressive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u126	It is exponential, Mr. Van Hees, based on CO2 emissions. A progressive tax is totally inadequate in this case. You know very well that today, progressivity is not enough to combat climate change. It is important that those who are the biggest polluters pay much more than gradually, they have to pay exponentially. I invite you to read the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u127	That is precisely what the carbon tax does not do! I'll make it up to you. The climate problem is a system problem. As long as we don't get out of this framework and rely on green capitalism, the virtues of the market, the carbon tax, on a CO2 market, the fight against climate change will be doomed to failure. As I pointed out earlier, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u128	Mr President, on climate issues, we are always listening to the same experts, those of the IPCC, who are very politicized, and we are not taking enough account – or not at all! – private experts, who have a different opinion. Emerging countries – not least – such as India, Brazil or China do not feel connected and intend to comply with these agreements. There is a risk that there will be not a climate disruption but an economic disruption. Mr President, for these reasons I shall abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u129	Minister, this is a motion for a resolution, you do not have to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u130	Mr President, it is not mandatory to react and I would not abuse the precious moments of Parliament. I would still like to make a few remarks. I listened well to the various speakers. I would like to congratulate all the parliamentarians who have worked in an interparliamentary group on having the text come to plenary today and be able to be adopted. It is by acting together, governments and parliaments, that we can achieve an effective fight against climate change. As regards joint work on the whole European plate, we have a tradition of working together with Benelux. In the framework of the Talanoa Dialogue, in preparation for COP 24 in Katowice, yesterday we recorded an agreement at Belgian level which we will submit to our Luxembourg and Dutch partners to encourage Europe to increase its ambitions in the fight against climate change, in view of the intervention, since 8 October, of the conclusions of the IPCC international report. To say that the federal government has done nothing is wrong. This is in any case excessive, since we launched a green bond initiative that lifted over EUR 4.5 billion last year to launch structural investments in the fight against global warming and to maintain a healthy environment. In 2017, I also launched an initiative to support nationally determined contributions to developing countries, which aims to support eligible countries, French-speaking countries and partners in Belgian international cooperation, to implement their determined contributions at national level. On 19 February, my colleague De Backer and I will be holding a high-level international conference to discuss the impact of climate change on the conservation and preservation of the oceans. Without a word game, this can be seen as a useful and effective way to combine green growth with blue growth. With regard to renewable energy, the federal level has also made considerable efforts to increase the installed capacity in the North Sea by 2,200 megawatts by 2020 and almost double by 2030, with the identification of a new operating area for wind turbines in the North Sea and a trend that continues to limit the impact on citizens' bills. Before I go into the debate on carbon, I come to the Energy Pact. The latter is an important founding text. It is, like your interparliamentary resolution, an inter-federal text in which we wanted, before continuing the work on the national energy-climate plan, which we must hand over to Europe at the end of the year, to unite our efforts to ensure that energy and climate policies serve, in particular, the fight against global warming while providing our country with sufficient energy at an affordable price. The work on the National Energy-Climate Plan, which will be integrated into a common text and which will not be an addition of regional and federal plans, is the technical and practical answer to the road we want to go by 2050. Let us now come to the price of carbon, or the value of carbon. This responds to point 2 of your resolution, in which you call on the government to take structural measures, in the short, medium and long term, to achieve a low-carbon economy and society by 2050. To achieve this objective, you rightly say, these measures must be socially just and broadly supported by the population and all relevant actors in society. For this reason, as Mr Nollet has said on several occasions, although he has not explicitly named me (which is perhaps a bit difficult, or it is indecent), I have modestly launched an initiative with the FPS with which I am working so that, for a year, a very broad debate on the price of carbon takes place. A series of leads have been drawn, which we can use to defuse various policies. Mr Van Hees, in this debate and in his conclusions, particular attention is paid to the impact on the most precarious households. Recommendations are made in this regard. I would like to stress that. Point 4 of your resolution refers to the contribution, through their policies, to combating and reducing the effects of climate change at international and national level. As part of the National Adaptation Plan for Belgium 2017-2020, we are making efforts at the federal level. We have developed a series of guidance documents to encourage the inclusion of climate and biodiversity in impact assessments, in collaboration with the Crisis Centre, to take climate scenarios into account in the updating of risk analyses, as well as to initiate an analysis of rail vulnerabilities to climate change, and to put in place preventive measures such as biodiversity in the event of storms. At the international level, I recall what I just said. There is a support initiative in Burundi and Côte d'Ivoire to integrate climate change and ecosystem services into national and local planning processes as part of the federal initiative to support identified contributions at the national level. As far as governance is concerned, the federal level is currently organising a series of seminars on Belgian climate governance. These seminars bring together specialists from different backgrounds, in constitutional law, environmental law, as well as political scientists and philosophers, who provide multidisciplinary insights on the issue. This initiative is scheduled to close by the end of November this year. That is the answer to point 32 of your resolution. As far as point 33 is concerned, as I said, this is the federal government's initiative to launch green bonds. They have already brought huge financial opportunities to finance large-scale structural investments. This initiative, launched in February 2018, includes greenhouse gas emission reductions. I come to point 34 of your resolution, which is about putting in place a strategy to involve citizens and all societal actors. I'll finish with that. The federal government has put in place a climate coach initiative. After training, these coaches were made available to third-level secondary schools, which could register for one or more awareness sessions. This tool has been very successful. We have also developed another interactive and educational web tool, allowing us to create a low carbon scenario for everyone, by 2050. This tool is called "mytwentyfifty" and is visible on my2050.be. We are, of course, taking many other initiatives on a daily basis, but I wanted to take them back to show that we are obviously in phase, for a few non-exhaustive points, with the demands you make through this interparliamentary resolution, for which I congratulate you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u131	Mr. Chairman, I will address the initiatives that have been taken by the government. I often hear erroneous numbers. I like the numbers, but there has been some contamination in the spread of false numbers. If I draw the savings plan of SNCB, compared to 2014, it is 1.2 billion euros, as I have already explained and reexplained in committee. Mr Van Hees, you immediately forget that the government, in its National Pact for Strategic Investments, spends a billion on capacity building. Several works have begun and others will continue soon. I'm thinking about the end of the ER. I would also point out that the Walloon and Flemish regions are adding significant amounts to achieve regional priorities in the rail sector and that in December 2017 we added 5.1% more train-kms. Prior to the introduction of these new trains, there was already a 3.4% increase in 2017 and a 3.8% increase in the number of passengers in the first half of 2018, twice the average in previous years. I would also like to point out that next to this, we have tried - remember the Mobility budget - to encourage those who have a car to "green" it by buying a cleaner vehicle, or even to replace it with alternatives such as train, scooter, electric bike, etc. Finally, in addition to offering S around Brussels, it is necessary to count on the gradual implementation of the S offer around the large Belgian agglomerations, namely Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi with the famous City Pass ticket. As a result, there is a relatively large increase in the number of passengers. It should be noted that every time a car user takes the train, he produces 18 times less CO2 than if he had taken his car. In 2015, the federal government ordered new rolling stock (the M7). This is about 445 cars for an amount of $1.5 billion. The first delivery will take place in mid-2019 since the manufacturers have accumulated a delay of six months. I would like to stress that there has been a movement on public transport. I hope that, at all levels of power, all public transport networks can be integrated, including investments in infrastructure such as bicycle motorways, as well as a number of initiatives which are the responsibility of the regions and even the municipalities. Thus, together, we can have a more sustainable, environmentally friendly and efficient vision of mobility in terms of mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u132	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u133	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u134	In the absence of consensus within the Conference of Presidents this afternoon on the procedure to be followed for the appointment of the members of the Management Committee of the Data Protection Authority, I propose that this item be added to our agenda. In the absence of consensus in this afternoon's Conference of Presidents on the procedure to be followed for the appointment of the members of the Steering Committee of the Data Protection Authority, I propose that this item be added to our agenda. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u135	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 October 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Francis Delpérée cs) amending the Act of 19 May 1994 regulating the election campaign and limiting and declaring the electoral expenditure for the elections of the Flemish Parliament, the Walloon Parliament, the Brussels-Capital Parliament and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community, and laying down the standard of scrutiny of official communications by the public authorities, in order to ensure the continuation of the limitation of electoral expenditure, No. 3342/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u136	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 October 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Francis Delperée et al.) amending the Act of 19 May 1994 regulating the electoral campaign, concerning the limitation and declaration of election expenses incurred for the elections of the Walloon Parliament, the Flemish Parliament, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community, and laying down the criterion for the control of official communications by public authorities, with a view to ensuring continuity in the limitation of election expenses following the modification of electoral districts in the provinces of Hainaut and Luxembourg, No. 3342/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u137	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u138	Mr President, I ask for urgency about the proposal you have just read the title. The reason is simple. The Minister of the Interior must take a royal decree six months before the elections to determine the amounts available to the parties and candidates. This six-month period leads us to the 26th of November next. But there is a lack of a legal basis in view, as you have just said, of the restructuring of the boroughs within the framework of the Province of Hainaut and the Province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, we are expressing our opinion on urgency in the usual way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u140	In accordance with Article 39 (1) of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, the Court is to appoint the members of the Management Committee of the Data Protection Authority. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 39 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing a Data Protection Authority, the Chamber must appoint the members of the Management Committee of the Data Protection Authority. The second paragraph of Article 36 (2) of that law provides that members of the Management Committee must have a functional knowledge of the second language of the country and of English. Article 36(2), paragraph 2, of the said Law provides that members of the Management Committee must have a functional knowledge of the second national language and English. In addition, at least one member must have a functional knowledge of German. At least one member must also have a functional knowledge of German. All candidates were tested by Selor on the knowledge of the other national language and English. One candidate also completed the German language test. Selor tested all candidates' knowledge of the other national language and English. Only one candidate also presented the German language test. The results of the language tests showed that ten candidates have the required language skills, namely in the second language (Dutch or French) and in English. The results of the language tests show that ten candidates have compulsory language knowledge, i.e. the second national language (Dutch or French) and English. However, none of these candidates show a functional knowledge of German. None of these candidates, however, justify a functional knowledge of German. The only candidate who demonstrates the functional knowledge of German does not demonstrate the functional knowledge of English. The only candidate with functional knowledge of German does not justify functional knowledge of English. It is therefore proposed to the plenary that the candidates who demonstrate the mandatory language skills (Dutch, French and English) should be able to take the German language test. It is therefore proposed to the plenary meeting to allow candidates demonstrating that they have the required language skills (in French, Dutch and English) to take the German language test. It is also proposed that Selor take this test again and maintain the level of knowledge of the test (level C1 for reading and level B2 for speaking). It is also proposed to entrust the Selor with the task of organising this test and maintaining the levels of knowledge provided for this test (level C1 for reading and level B2 for oral expression). I suggest that we take a decision on this procedure. I propose that we take action on this procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u141	Mr President, a very brief statement to remind us that, of course, we share the proposed objective: to ensure that at least one of the members of this future authority, this management group, speaks German, in accordance with the legal requirement. It is on the modalities that we find to be reprimanded and we believe that it would have been possible to adopt a modality which, from the legal point of view, further secures the process under way. In other words, we share the objective of complying with the law, but in terms of terms, we believe that it would have been possible to do otherwise. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u142	Are you asking for an electronic vote? Then we shall proceed to the electronic vote on the proposal as I have put it to you. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u143	Yes 96 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 38 Abstensions Total 134 Total The proposal was therefore adopted. Accordingly, the proposal was adopted. Mr Egbert Lachaert voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u144	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on October 16, 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 16 October 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 279/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 279/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to appeal to the majority to reconsider its view on a matter which is not yet closed since the Minister of Health is in the process of finalizing a royal decree which would allow supermarkets to sell sterile products. Indeed, there is a European framework for this. Besides this, it would also allow supermarkets to sell, tomorrow, what are called alike drugs that are products that have a similarity to drugs but that are everything but candy, that are almost like drugs and that mainly have side effects and drug interactions like drugs. There are health impacts that are anything but banal. As far as public health is concerned, it seems to me particularly important that these alike drugs remain in the pharmacies with a quality and safety assurance check on the health care provided by pharmacists. It is essential that the Royal Decree does not provide that they may be sold in supermarkets. Officiels are not supermarkets. Pharmacists have a major role to play in patient support and will enable, in terms of safety and quality assurance of health care, to maintain a significant added value. Depriving pharmacists of this particular accompaniment would be a real mistake in public health. I really call on the members of the Public Health Commission and the government as a whole to be able to review this issue before it is fully finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. Are there any other explanations of vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u147	Yes 77 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u148	Mr President, as our colleague Mr Luc Gustin is still in hospital, I will allow myself to go hand in hand with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u149	Thank you. Mr. Benoît Lutgen voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u150	These inquiries were developed at a public meeting of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture on 17 October 2018. These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture of 17 October 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 281/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms Leen Dierick and Messrs. Benoît Friart and Bert Wollants. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 281/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Bert Wollants. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our country, one in five households suffers from energy poverty. It is hundreds of thousands of people who fear opening their electricity and gas bills or filling their fuel tank. Today we are talking about an increase in the energy bill of 400 euros, 110 euros for electricity. We have been asking for months for the government to intervene immediately. There is also a bill pending in the Finance Committee. We call for this government to intervene to preserve the purchasing power of our fellow citizens. We are simply asking for a reduction in VAT from 21 % to 6 %. That is 720 million in the budget framework. When we give billions for the F-35s, I think for our own citizens, we could find those 720 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u152	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u153	Yes 77 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. (3319/2) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. (3319/2) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Mr Luk Van Biesen voted in favour)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-25-54-plenair-ip252x.u155	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 8 November 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, November 8, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 8 November 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 8 November 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
