ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u1	Madam President, Minister, in 2019 the Limburg municipalities Overpelt and Neerpelt merge into the new merger municipality Pelt. Many residents wonder what impact this will have on the two SNCB stations. These are barely a kilometer apart. The station of Neerpelt is the largest and was completely renewed a few years ago. The fact that a city or municipality has several stations is not unique, yet this is rather unusual for smaller municipalities. That is why the question arises as to whether either station will disappear in the long term. Who decides whether or not to abolish the stops? What criteria are used? Is it being considered at our railway companies to abolish one of the stops in the new merger municipality of Pelt? If so, which one? Are there any concrete plans? If so, can you explain it, for example in terms of timing? Will local government be consulted in advance on the possible abolition of one of the stops?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u2	Madam President, Mr Raskin, on the basis of a socio-economic and social study, which takes account of the current and potential use of trains, SNCB can make a proposal to merge stops. In any case, there is currently no question of closing one of the stops.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u3	That is clear, Minister, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u4	Minister, the Regions and the federal government share services related to passenger transportation by bus. Thus, the so-called regular services – TEC – and regular specialized services – school collection, among others – are part of the regional competence. The so-called casual services, on the other hand, are part of federal jurisdiction. The latter are classified as occasional in that they do not meet the criteria for initial services. They are characterized by a lack of specified frequency and serve non-profit and non-commercial purposes. A municipality with several municipal buses cannot, however, have this service for two reasons: firstly, this type of use is reserved for professional carriers and secondly, it would encourage some unfair competition, which is prohibited by the relevant European rules. The only exception for a municipality to have such a service is that it proves that there is a real and permanent link with the persons transported. This is therefore limited to the employees of the municipality concerned. Therefore, as was the case in the town of Écaussinnes, a municipal bus was fined heavily because it was carrying students on a cultural excursion outside a regular educational setting. Mr Minister, do you not think, in this case, that the use of municipal buses for occasional services for the sole benefit of municipal employees is too restrictive especially when it comes to local authorities which cannot afford to pay for additional costs for such services? Have you recently had contact with the Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia (UCVW) on this issue? If so, what are the main points of agreement and disagreement? Did she propose any recommendations to you in order to better adapt the current legislation to communal realities? What are they? Is the case of the municipality of Écaussinnes the only case of infringement that has been punished? Can you establish the number of offences in this area that have been fined since the beginning of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u5	Dear colleague, in occasional transport, third-party transport should be distinguished from own-account transport. The latter means non-commercial and non-profit transport, with its own vehicles and personnel and which is only an ancillary activity for the carrier. For national transport, the legislator considered it necessary to limit the use of own-account transport in order to avoid unfair competition with the strictly regulated professional sector. For this reason, Article 5 of the Law of 13 July 2013 on the carriage of passengers by road provides that national transport is permitted only when it consists mainly of the carriage of persons with a real and permanent connection with the carrier. The scope of this limitation is explained in the explanatory memorandum of the law in the form of examples: firstly, the transport of persons who perform a function in the undertaking; secondly, the transport of children, pupils, students, sick, disabled or elderly persons by the institution responsible for supervising them. Thirdly, the transport of persons by an association of which they are members, provided that the transport of its members is not the main purpose of that association; fourthly, the transport by private individuals within the family circle. These examples indicate that the link between passengers and the carrier must be close and direct. So just being a resident of the municipality is not enough to call on the municipal bus. However, contrary to your perception, the transport of communal employees by the municipal bus is not the only case that is allowed. Thus, it can be considered that the link required by law also exists between the municipality and the pupils affiliated with the communal education network. The municipal bus could therefore be used for school trips in the case of communal education. The Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia has not contacted me about this problem, but I learn from your question that there is some confusion as to the limitation imposed, considering a good balance in the passenger transport market. I do not have any statistical data on the number of infringements found in the case of occasional transport carried out by municipal buses. According to my information, this would be a few isolated cases per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u6	Mr Minister, thank you, but I think there is some confusion in some communes. In any case, the fine received by the town of Écaussinnes made us reflect around. The Union of Towns and Municipalities of Wallonia may need to be made aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u7	Madam President, Minister, the troubleshooting sector has seen many fundamental developments in our country. The trade has become more complex and is increasingly recognized as a public interest. The assistance mission of this sector has increased at the same time as the quality of services provided by the profession to customers (strict load on equipment, multilingualism, replacement vehicle, working conditions of employees, supervision of intervention rates, etc.).). However, this quality of service is an insurance imperative. The troubleshooting sector, which is needed in the event of an accident or breakdown, is no longer contacted by insurance. The latter have a smartphone app and, where appropriate, convenience stores receive a notification via it. They only have to report if they are close to the place to intervene and can be followed in real time by customers. As a result, more and more missions and responsibilities are being assigned to the troubleshooting sector. It is now the convenience store that will have to ensure the safety marking, the cleaning of the premises and the disposal of waste on motorways and national roads. In view of this increase in missions and responsibilities to convenience stores, they are seeking recognition as the fourth emergency service, to receive priority on the road along the same lines as police, firefighters and ambulances. They would also like to have blue gyrophares for their vehicles. What do you think of these requests? Are they legitimate? Have you already analysed them and do you think that they should be granted to facilitate emergency response? By comparison, these already exist in the Netherlands or the United Kingdom. Similarly, in order to help the professionalization of the sector, do you believe that the uniformization of car troubleshooting vehicles – gyrophars, paints, etc. –, as well as their equipment are to be continued? Does your administration see a significant improvement in troubleshooting services during the legislature? How many such services exist in Belgium? How have they evolved since 2014? How are they distributed among the Regions? How do you analyze this number? Is it sufficient for the number of accidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u8	Dear colleague, troubleshooting vehicles are not treated as categories which can automatically benefit from priority signs, and this must remain very exceptional. However, they are already equipped with flashing orange or yellow lights and placed in such a way as to be visible in all directions. In addition, the Road Traffic Code provides for an exemption for commuters from the ban on movement on the emergency stop band in order to travel to the site of an incident occurring along the motor vehicle road or highway, when traffic is severely slowed down or stopped, as is the case for priority vehicles performing an urgent mission. Specific measures are therefore already in place for troubleshooting vehicles. For the rest, and no doubt in view of the reasons for your question, I refer you to the answer that will be given by my colleague Jan Jambon, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, who manages the marking of troubleshooting when necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I come back to this issue of language management in Belgocontrol, for which my colleague Véronique Caprasse has already asked you earlier. Of course, you know the legal obligation. The Standing Committee on Linguistic Control has regularly pinned this public undertaking in its annual report because of the lack of a linguistic framework, which constitutes a violation of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters and has consequences for staff. Indeed, the absence of a language framework prevents any legal promotion and, more generally, any decision to give them benefits if Belgocontrol cannot adopt any final decision on staff matters. From various sources, it is my responsibility that there is a significant shortage of French-speaking agents, particularly air traffic controllers, and that the regional airports of Charleroi and Liège are understaffed. This was confirmed to me again recently during a visit to Charleroi airport. However, this is not the case for other regional airports. I was aware of the existence of regulatory measures taken in 2016 within the public undertaking to assign air traffic controllers with a certain linguistic role in a unit and in a region whose language does not correspond to that of their linguistic affiliation. Since these measures have been challenged before the Council of State, I will not comment further, but you will agree that these measures, contrary to the laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, have created an imbalance between language roles. The result is a sense of discrimination among Francophone air traffic controllers, while recognizing that comptrollership is subject to both recruitment and training requirements. Of course, these understaffings do not allow officers to claim air traffic controller training, to which they are entitled. At the very least, this situation should be rectified. It is announced that an air traffic controller training course in English, which lasts two to three years, would soon be partially organised in Brussels, whereas it was previously organised in Malmö, Sweden. Therefore, Minister, could you please let me know if any directives have been communicated by your services so that Belgocontrol finally complies with its obligation to have linguistic frameworks? If not, what measures are you going to take to ensure a balance between French-speaking and Dutch-speaking air traffic controllers, on the other hand, both at Brussels National airport and at regional airports, allowing officers to be assigned in a region corresponding to their linguistic role? Do you confirm that an air traffic controller training will soon be organised in Brussels under the conditions I have recalled?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u10	My colleague, it appears that Belgocontrol has never had a linguistic framework within it. At the end of 2016, I asked Belgocontrol and the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control about the lack of a linguistic framework and its reasons. My firm then met with the Commission and Belgocontrol on the subject. On the basis of Article 48 of the Acts of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, which provides for the possibility of special measures to regulate the application of language laws within Belgocontrol, taking into account its own operating conditions, discussions are under way between Belgocontrol and the aforementioned Commission in order to provide Belgocontrol with a linguistic framework. However, there are important nuances between the information received at the meeting with the Commission and the mention of Belgocontrol in the Commission's annual report. I have therefore asked the Commission for an explanation of these nuances and the reasons for them. My will is to find a proper balance between the specific tasks of Belgocontrol, in view of the use of English in this field. Indeed, the working language of the controllers and of all operational staff is English. Of course, I recognize the need to comply with the legal framework; I intend to enforce it. Belgocontrol has just signed a partnership with a leading international player in the training of air traffic controllers, the Swedish company Entry Point North. The aim of this partnership is to create a joint subsidiary with a view to organising training in Brussels. These are expected to start at the end of 2018. I would add that it is not a failure to look for candidates from both linguistic roles. A good command of the English language is necessary to meet the tests. Unfortunately, out of 1,000 candidates, 28 were selected, with an imbalance on the French side. I urge Francophones who would like to take the exam, while they have all the other skills to do so, to continue to deepen their knowledge of English. As you said last year, because of the absence, due to illness, of controllers at the airports of Liège and Charleroi, some of their colleagues had to be temporarily moved. This did not satisfy either the host controllers or those who had to change the airport. In other words, the problem is real. For two or three years, we didn't recruit them. Now there is a catch-up effect. Recruitment is now organized. In order to prevent student supervisors from resigning after two months on the grounds that they had to travel to Sweden - as had been the case - it was decided to establish a subsidiary with this training organisation, which already works in partnership with Ireland. In this way, these young people - who are often at the beginning of their working and family life - will benefit from all the conditions required for them not to resign because their place of training would be too far away. We therefore want to encourage each other to learn not only the second national language, but also English - which is the language of the air sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u11	Before I give the floor to Mr.Maingain for his reply, I will ask the minister, too, to abide by the rules. More than 63 questions are on the agenda. The Speaker of the House has asked us to abide by the rules in force for oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u12	Minister, thank you for the initial clarifications. I wish we could take stock. The development of language frameworks is independent of recruitment and, perhaps also today, of the number of Francophone candidates who meet the language proficiency tests, particularly in the knowledge of English. So some of them are in office, but cannot be promoted or pursue their careers. This is true, in principle, in both linguistic roles. Therefore, Belgocontrol should be asked – given the waiting period for the development of language frameworks – to speed up the required procedures. The methodology is well known; the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control recalled it in the letters addressed to this body. Therefore, we may hope that this issue will finally be resolved during the year. In addition, it would be wise, in collaboration with the regional ministers of vocational training, to create a channel to increase the chances of success in the selection tests for French-speaking candidates. Initiatives must certainly be taken by the authorities in charge of this matter. We'll pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u13	All of Mr. Hedebouw's questions were taken up by Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u14	Mr Minister, on 3 October 2017, you replied to our colleague Flahaux that a study co-financed by the European Commission and carried out by Infrabel and SNCB was looking at alternatives to the Nord-Midi junction in Brussels. This link has been a problem for years for the Belgian and international rail network. You had replied to Mr Flahaux that it was necessary to wait for the results of this study before you could apply for a European grant to finance the alternative to the junction. Our country is characterized by the duration of these major dossiers, which sometimes lead to immobilization. Everyone in Belgium knows that this North-Midi junction is hindering the expansion of rail traffic. If we do not want to wait for decades, it would be useful to make concrete proposals in the short term. Brussels has a significant position in three of the nine corridors Europe wants to achieve before 2030 for the trans-European transport network. The grants for this project amount to €24 billion. According to our information, the deadline for requesting subsidies is from 2014 to 2020. These European funds could boost this important issue not only for freight but also for Belgian travellers. Minister, at what stage is this study going on? How long do you expect the results? What are the concrete alternatives on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u15	Mr Van Hees, since the question has been sent to me in Dutch, I will answer you in Dutch. You will find the answer given to us by the company. The first activity of the feasibility study concerning the inventory of the studies already carried out and the collection of the operating needs was carried out by Infrabel and SNCB according to the original description. The study will address the identification of the different solutions, including the possible use of new technologies. It is desirable that the preliminary results of the study should also be examined by external experts. In September, the European Union was asked to carry out additional specific feasibility studies within the original budget. No final results can yet be expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u16	Minister, you're a little confirming what I was afraid of. You're sending us back to the Greek calends. We have the impression that things are going to last a long time and that we are going to miss the possibility of being part of the European framework that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u17	Minister, the multi-year investment plan includes plans to renovate the stations of Liège-Palais and Liège-Jonfosse. These renovations would go hand in hand with a replacement of the names, these stations becoming respectively "Liège-Saint-Lambert" and "Liège-Carré". I, who frequent from time to time the station of Liège-Palais, inform you that at the bottom of the escalators, a sign indicates that they are forever out of service. The renovations also cover improvements to the accessibility of people with reduced mobility. The project of a station under the tracks of Liège-Palais, mentioned for years, would have been abandoned. Why has SNCB opted for new names? Won't it be a source of confusion? Has the municipal council been consulted? What is envisaged to improve the accessibility of these stations? Will there be an increase in the number of bicycle car parks? What measures will be taken to promote intermodality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u18	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that the change of names was proposed in the framework of the study "Angélique" and submitted to the storeholders. A file will be submitted to SNCB's management bodies to approve this name change. A consultation will be held with the City of Liège in advance. SNCB proposes to rename Liège-Palais station in Liège-Saint-Lambert and Liège-Jonfosse station in Liège-Carré. With regard to the latter, SNCB wishes to highlight this station in order to better serve the hypercentre. Since "Le Carré" is a place known to non-Liégeois, this name will make it possible to better value its offer. In addition, SNCB states that it wishes to promote an alternative to the car for young people travelling in the "Carré". This is also part of a prevention strategy. With regard to the accessibility and intermodality of Liège-Palais, it is not only planned to link the docks directly to the esplanade of the courthouse via a staircase and an escalator, but also to connect them, on the other side, to the SNCB car park, via a staircase and an elevator. Since the SNCB car park is directly related to the Cadran Square and the buses, this will increase intermodality. The pitches Cambio and PMR, as well as the kiss and ride of the SNCB parking lot are preserved and the bike offer will be greatly strengthened. The project also includes a renovation of the pavements and awnings at the wharfs. For Liège-Jonfosse, the work concerns the coating and lighting of the docks. With regard to bicycles, SNCB intends to significantly increase the number of bikes and rides within the regional express network in Liège. SNCB further recalls that cities and municipalities can also request secure boxing from the Société régionale Wallonne du Transport (SRWT), which finances the investment to the tune of 80%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u19	Minister, thank you for that clarification. If I understand correctly, consultations will continue for the name change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u20	Pre-consultations! So, from the city.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u21	Who still have to take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u22	Yes, the mayor knows.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u23	All right, but it's not just the mayor!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u24	Minister, in December, following the snowfall and rain, the underground pedestrian crossing at the Termonde railway station was flooded. According to the inhabitants, the structure is so old that the water flows forcefully through the wall. This problem has existed for years. There would be a plan to replace the tunnel with a bridge. Minister, what schedule is there for an alternative to this underground passage? What concrete alternative is envisaged? Does it sufficiently take into account the accessibility of persons with reduced mobility? Are other stations in Belgium affected by the same problem? What measures or solutions are envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u25	Colleague, companies have approved multi-year investment plans and multi-year strategic investment plans. These various plans will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. When this stage is reached, I propose that the companies present them, in detail, to the Committee on Infrastructure, at the risk of receiving questions for at least the 549 Belgian stations and the tens or even the hundreds of existing lines in Belgium. Madam President, once the multi-year investment plan has been approved, I call on the representatives of the companies to be able to respond to any investment related to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u26	We agree. You are therefore asking for an exchange of views on the Multiannual Investment Plan. I always agree with the exchanges of views, but often the majority does not want to. I hope that the majority will have heard from the minister and that instead of asking questions and spending hours on specific cases, we will have an exchange of views. However, we will not be able to prevent specific issues, minister. We will therefore hold an exchange of views as soon as the two boards of directors and the government – I imagine – have validated the IPP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u27	The boards of directors have validated the IPP but not the government yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u28	As soon as the government validates them, let us know! We will then invite the secretariat and organise an afternoon of discussions with the two companies. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees for his line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u29	If I can call that a reply, I have not received an answer to my questions. I take note of the fact that I did not receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u31	It is regrettable that there is no leak since there are some in the station which is the object of the leak. The inhabitants and commuters could already have been given hope for change. Let us therefore note that the majority will accept this exchange of views when it is proposed!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u32	Minister, the inhabitants of the communes on line 43 between Liers and Marloie consider Marloie to be somewhat the poor relative of the network. A local action group launched a petition – which collected more than 700 signatures – following the release of the new transport plan to denounce the situation. One of the complaints concerns the removal of the connection with the train that goes to Arlon and Libramont. As a result, the return journey is extended by two hours, which is detrimental to the passengers and staff of SNCB who now have to use the car to get to work. The last two trains (21:38 and 22:38) from Marloie to Marche were abolished. Furthermore, accessibility for people with reduced mobility is insufficient. According to SNCB, for safety reasons, wheelchair users cannot take the train along the route except in Liège, Rivage and Marloie. There is still a problem with a window and a waiting room closed in Bomal. Commuters also complain about the inadequate information system. Minister, what are the punctuality figures for lines 43 and 162? What are the consequences of these figures for commuters? Can any adaptations be made to the transport plan to guarantee the connection to Arlon in Marloie? Is it possible to add one train per hour on this line, as requested by the petition? Can SNCB re-establish the trains at 21:38 and 22:38 in Marloie? Does SNCB intend to provide Bomal with a waiting room? Are there plans to modernize information panels at breakpoints? What initiatives could be taken to ensure accessibility for people with reduced mobility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u33	Dear colleague, the punctuality on these lines for 2017 is 79.83 % for line 162 and 79.75 % for line 43. For the latter line, despite the efforts of the railway undertakings, there has been a real deterioration in the situation in October and November 2017. I would like to clarify some of the punctuality problems encountered in recent weeks on line 43. This axis was the subject of a long one-way service throughout October as a result of major planned work: maintenance of the track and catenary, renewal of two level crossings, modernization of the wharves. I assume you will agree that work must be done to maintain capacity. At one time, this line was on the blacklist. Note the investments made at my request. In this regard, Infrastructure Manager Infrabel tells me that I have chosen to do as much work as possible in a short period of time. As a result, users have experienced proven and repeated inconveniences. Infrabel acknowledges this and wishes to assure users that it is endeavouring to minimize the impact of these works on traffic, while insisting that this work is necessary for the provision of a safe, reliable and robust railway infrastructure. The situation improved significantly in December 2017. I am well aware that this is a delicate situation that absolutely needs to be improved. Efforts must be continued and strengthened to achieve better results in 2018. The work on the 162 axis between Namur and Arlon – I would remind you that over the next five years we will do work for 268 million euros – is carried out under cover of a single-track traffic which moves according to the section under construction and each time involves a major reorganization of the timetable and the supply of trains. By December 2014, the extended journey times on line 162 during the work had allowed the establishment of a connection at Marloie between the L trains of the Liège line and the ICs from Brussels to Luxembourg. This correspondence did not previously exist. With the commissioning of the new transport plan 2017-2020 and taking into account the evolution of the work of modernization of the Namur-Luxembourg axis, the timetables have been changed again and the realization of this correspondence is no longer possible in Marloie. However, the extended journey time of 2014 has been reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u35	I know the question well, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u36	How many minutes has the journey time been reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u37	The minister has the floor, Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u38	The journey time between Ciney and Brussels has been reduced by two times six minutes. A minute's gain is worth thirty million euros. We are not going to slow down trains, while we have just invested to speed them up – in which case the inhabitants of Namur and Ciney will be unhappy. And there are twelve thousand – compared to the thirty-four travellers who are late for the connection to Marloie. In the latter case, SNCB indicated that the IC schedule had to be moved by 11 minutes. Since line 43 Marloie-Liège is itself largely single-track, it was not possible to adapt L trains serving Marche-en-Famenne to maintain the connection at Marloie towards Luxembourg. Recreating this correspondence in the context of the 2017-2020 transport plan would involve breakdowns of correspondence in Liège towards Brussels and Namur. So that would only move the problem. This transportation plan does not provide for an evening amplitude reduction on line 43, contrary to what this person claims. Marloie's last departures – at 9:38 p.m. and 10:38 p.m. – were no longer in existence in December 2014, given the very low occupancy of the trains concerned. SNCB further informs me that it did not consider the re-circulation of these trains in 2017, due to the small flows observed in the past that did not cover the associated operating costs. For Bomal Park, an unguarded stopping point, SNCB informs me that after the windows closed in 2005, it attempted to retain certain passenger reception functions, such as the waiting room. It has negotiated with the commune, but without success, while discussions with other communes have always been successful. SNCB adds that the station building will be listed for sale by the railway company next year. With regard to accessibility for people with reduced mobility, in my proposal for a project to be financed with the additional billion, an additional budget of almost EUR 18 million has been earmarked for work at the Arlon station docks, the laying of the docks in Marbehan, the renovation of the docks in Marloie or the installation of mobile ramps for people with reduced mobility at all the stations on line 162.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u39	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I don't have time to reply on every point. Finally, you give us an example of a decision made during the 2014 transport plan, not in 2017. These transport plans all go in the same direction: to focus on the broad lines where there are a lot of travellers, where it is profitable, and all the small lines are detrigued gradually. I know the problem well in my area. This policy is even carried out in your own region. It's a vicious circle because the more you're going to unblock these small lines, the less people will come there and the more arguments SNCB will have to keep unblocking! A public service is something else. It is also providing a service on small lines where there is less population. Unfortunately, this is not the option for rail mobility in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u40	Question No 22686 by Mrs Caprasse and Question No 22732 and Question No 22764 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u41	Minister, the station environment of Neerpelt underwent a thorough metamorphosis a few years ago. The platforms were refurbished. Under the tracks a new pedestrian tunnel was built with a staircase and an elevator directly from the parking lot. Despite this modernisation, I have a number of complaints about the cleanliness of the station environment and the SNCB parking between the station and the signal house. This has led to a number of specific questions. Who manages the parking lot between the station of Neerpelt and the signal house? Is there a regulation for the use of the car park and is it true that the car park can only be used to pick up or drop off rail passengers? How many drivers use that parking lot every day and is it true that the parking lot is often empty? Several travellers use the parking on the other side of the tracks. To get to the tracks, they are dependent on an uncomfortable staircase or the elevator that is dirty and would be regularly defective. The pedestrian tunnel would certainly be a not very pleasant place in the evening. Do you know about these complaints? What action will be taken on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u42	The car park between the station of Neerpelt and the signal house is managed by the municipality of Neerpelt and offers 32 parking spaces. SNCB lets me know that the city of Neerpelt has decided that only the blue disc can be parked in this parking lot for up to one hour. You ask about the capacity utilisation rate, but you should ask the municipality that question. The underpass to reach the platform was completely renewed in 2014 and 2015. SNCB acknowledges that the underpass is not very maintenance friendly and that there is vandalism. In 2017, SNCB's Security Operations Center (SOC) received five reports from station staff for facts of vandalism, damage or graffiti, especially in the underpass and on the lifts. These facts were also reported to the local police and/or the railway police. Some of the walls are covered with rock baskets that easily contain litter. SNCB is working on a solution to replace these rock baskets with a maintenance-friendly alternative. In 2017, the lifts had to be repaired 12 times for vandalism. In May and December there had to be a long wait for spare parts, so the lifts were temporarily unavailable. SNCB informs me that in 2017 its customer service only received a response from its customers regarding the state of access to the platforms. Following the reports to SOC, regular monitoring rounds have been organised by Securail teams since October 2017. In the months of October, November and December 2017, Securail conducted 18 monitoring rounds at different times in the station of Neerpelt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u43	That'll do. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 22778 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u45	Mr Minister, you yourself have said in the press that you are expecting measures on the punctuality of SNCB. We see that the latest punctuality figures show a serious deterioration. This is for October, but it was not better in November and December either. Unfortunately, 2017 was not so good in terms of punctuality. There has been a trend break in recent years when there was an upward trend in punctuality. We're on the bad road now. In early 2017, you identified punctuality managers with SNCB and this for certain railway lines on which you considered there were structural delays problems. The aim of these punctuality managers was to improve punctuality on that particular railway line. Measures to improve punctuality are a good thing. External factors are an important factor that can adversely affect punctuality. So I'd like to hear more from you about those poor punctuality figures. First of all, how do you explain the worsening punctuality rates? What measures are the two railway companies taking to improve this? Secondly, how many punctuality managers are working effectively? On which railway lines have punctuality managers been appointed? What are the criteria on which one decides to appoint a punctuality manager for a particular line? Thirdly, do the punctuality managers benefit from a variable remuneration linked to the punctuality of the railway lines for which they are responsible? If so, what was the variable remuneration compared to the maximum variable remuneration they could benefit from? This may be expressed as a percentage. This question is also because the management contract imposed variable wages on managers, one of the parameters being the punctuality of trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u46	Minister, Mrs De Coninck has already outlined the framework. SNCB recently announced its figures on punctuality in 2017. Those numbers weren't right. Since the introduction of the new transport plan on 10 December 2017, we feel that the punctuality is not improving, quite the contrary. I believe that there are structural problems on certain connections that prevent the provision of a punctual service. That's gonna cause a lot of beatings and frustrations. Moreover, communication on trains remains a pain point. The good communication of possible reasons for delay and possible connections sometimes happens very well, but in many cases it does not. It happens that trains are abolished without providing information on alternatives. It happens that there are serious delays and that suddenly no one hears or sees on the train anymore, which leads to extra frustration on top of frustration because of the delays. So, Minister, I have the following questions. Can you give punctuality figures, specifically since the new timetable is in force at SNCB, so since 10 December 2017? Can you split it up into peaks and valleys? After all, we feel that the night peak is particularly poor. How are these punctuality figures evaluated? Can they be explained? Mrs De Coninck said that there is a lot of reference to third-party reasons. I understand that, because it is very frustrating for society that much effort is being made to improve punctuality, but that causes are more difficult to control in third parties. However, there are still many reasons for delays for the railway company and for Infrabel itself, which can also be tackled further and better. Reliability of the equipment is certainly a very important factor in this. In my view, the causes that lie with third parties can also be mitigated if certain efforts are made. I refer to the plague of copper thefts at the time, which caused a lot of delays. With a number of efforts, this phenomenon has become very active. Further actions may also lead to an improvement or a reduction in the number of causes of third parties. As far as the punctuality manager is concerned, I agree with Mrs De Coninck's question. Furthermore, I would like to have some explanation of the steps that will be taken in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u47	Madam Chair, Minister, as colleagues have said, SNCB's punctuality figures are even worse in 2017 than in 2016. Some striking factors are related to the fact that delays attributed to Infrabel have increased significantly, from 20.9 per cent to 23.8 per cent. On the other hand, contrary to what is sometimes meant – especially by yourself – third-party liability is only slightly increased, from 39.5% to 40.9%. The CEO of SNCB, Sophie Dutordoir, points out as the main cause the problems of equipment or signalling, the work on the tracks or the lack of rigour. According to L'Echo, you intend to put pressure on SNCB to improve punctuality by asking for daily figures on the latter. Minister, in your opinion, apart from the responsibility of third parties, how is it that punctuality declined in 2017? What impact does the decline in staffing and productivity increase have on punctuality? Line managers have been active for a year now. What is the outcome of this measure? How many actions have been launched to improve punctuality? What are the main proposals of these line managers and what are they about: equipment, personnel, schedules, real-time traffic adjustments, correspondence? Are there other initiatives to improve punctuality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the punctuality in 2017 was less good than in 2016 and 2015 but better than in the years before. It was mainly negatively affected by a number of phenomena. Firstly, there was an increase in the number of failures of traction equipment in January, May, June and December. This was largely due to the weather conditions, heat in May and June and snow in early December. Secondly, there was a large number of infrastructure failures, with disturbances of the railway circuits to consider. Thirdly, there was a sharp increase in the number of cases of trespassing and accidents to consider. SNCB and Infrabel informed me of a list of measures to reduce the number of incidents. The objective is, firstly, to ensure good cooperation at all levels. Secondly, they want to focus on the departure time of the trains. Thirdly, the infrastructure is to be optimally organized. Fourthly, to ensure real-time follow-up and to find pragmatic solutions in line with the needs and possibilities of incident management. Fifth, to inform the various actors sufficiently to ensure proper follow-up in real time, in particular with regard to trains in service on rail alone. Sixthly, to introduce a robust transport plan which will enable small incidents to be dealt with easily and only cause a limited delay burden. Finally, the action plan provides information to passengers in full. It aims to provide targeted communication to travellers on the causes of delay, the prospects for restoring normal conditions and possible travel alternatives. 10 line managers, 5 at SNCB and 5 at Infrabel were identified for the most fragilized lines connected with Brussels and which strongly influence global punctuality. They are lines with busy train traffic and therefore also high passenger numbers. These are the following lines: Lines 161 and 162: Brussels-Namur-Luxembourg. Lines 5A, 89 and 50: Ostend-Gent-Kortrijk-Denderleeuw-Brussels. Lines 96 and 94: Mons-Tournai-Halle-Brussels. Lines 36 and 35: Liège-Hasselt-Leuven-Brussels. Lines 25, 27 and 124: Antwerp-Brussels-Charleroi. According to SNCB and Infrabel, the line managers were selected on the basis of their experience and expertise. The line managers do not receive any variable remuneration linked to the punctuality of the line they watch over. These line managers are instructed to follow the punctuality of the trains on the most sensitive lines. They analyse the incidents to bring the problems that arise on their lines to the attention of local leaders and suggest improvement actions for structural problems. Their proposals for improvement relate to different domains, such as infrastructure, rolling stock, turn-around arrangements of equipment and personnel, timetables, connections and real-time updates of train traffic. In concrete terms, the following proposals were launched. Firstly, the adjustment of the train control turnover to adjust the departure of certain weak-performance trains. Secondly, reviewing the sequence time between the many trains on line 50C, branching Saint-Katharina-Lombeek and Brussels-Zuid, so that snowball effects in the case of trains with a limited delay can be reduced as much as possible. Thirdly, a resection between the small island branch and Brussels-South in order to facilitate the movement of trains on the line. Fourthly, the drafting of a regulatory opinion for Infrabel's signalling staff to obtain a better distribution of train traffic across lines 96 and 96N between Halle and Brussels in order to increase the performance of the operators in certain crucial departure bundles, e.g. Châtelet-Tournai, for rapid intervention in the event of material defects. The evaluation of the new transport plan is under way. For some thirty low-performance trains, mainly P-trains, adjustments to the timetable have already been made on 8 January 2018 or are planned on 5 February 2018. In response to Mr Devin's questions, I would say that the figures in the press announcing a drop in the punctuality rate to 88.3% in 2017 are correct. The increase in external causes is mainly due to the occurrence of trespassing, collisions of people and numerous accidents at crossings. Bomb alerts also have a very negative impact on punctuality. If I take the example of trespassing, this is a very worrying and steadily increasing phenomenon, which has a major impact on the punctuality of trains. On average, in 2016 and 2017, there was a 10% increase in cases, despite all the efforts made by the network manager to secure and raise awareness. Whether they are commuters who take the shortest road by crossing the tracks at the railway station, residents who take shortcuts by the rail, or young people looking for strong and morbid sensations, the fight against this phenomenon, which is extremely dangerous, must be continued and strengthened. The same applies to the dangerous and illegal behaviour of motorists in the vicinity of level crossings. In the annex, I will provide you with a table showing the trend in the number of delays due to railway undertakings, i.e. with the exception of external causes. I am not trying to hide that the current figures for punctuality are not satisfactory. For me, this is a major concern because it negatively impacts commuters and all SNCB users. During 2018, I will continue to ask that railway companies step up their efforts at all levels to achieve better results. In this context, in particular, new measures need to be presented in the coming weeks to improve the situation on this issue of punctuality that I am most attentive to. Mrs Dutordoir, CEO of SNCB, tells me that every time she sees me, before I say hello, I ask her what the punctuality is. Productivity gains, on which SNCB and Infrabel have committed themselves, must partially offset the decline in endowments. However, it is not easy at this stage to establish a link between these measures and the results of punctuality. With regard to the figures published by the passenger associations, there was a meeting on punctuality between myself and these travelers' organizations. I asked the point of view of Infrabel and SNCB on the methodology. A joint analysis of Infrabel and SNCB was delivered to me on 22 January 2018. According to the management contract, established with the federal government, only Infrabel is competent to calculate the punctuality figures. The proposal of the passenger associations differs from the methodology currently applied by Infrabel on a number of points. Since the methodologies differ, the results are of course also different. The overall punctuality figures, calculated by Infrabel, are a summary of the punctuality of the 3 800 trains that each day bring the passengers to their destination. For this reason, several other punctuality statistics are communicated in more detail externally by Infrabel and SNCB. These statistics can be consulted on the public website of both companies. The current methodology certainly does not ignore the problems during rush hour. The bottleneck of the Brussels north-south link is the greatest restriction within which SNCB and Infrabel try to steer train traffic as smoothly as possible. According to both companies, there is no methodology that perfectly reflects the perception of each traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I believe that we must continue to focus on punctuality and work as far as possible on internal factors, such as defective equipment, signalling systems and their efficiency and infrastructure failures. It's an important thing to convince travelers to take the train. You report there are ten line managers, five for SNCB and five for Infrabel. I understand that they work on the same lines each time. Since our lines are very large, such as Antwerp-Charleroi or Brussels-Namen-Luxembourg, it may be necessary to look closely at where these delays are located, whether it is closer to Brussels or more at the first departure. We will continue to follow that up. I would just like to refer briefly to our resolution which we adopted in committee on the European uniform regulation to measure punctuality. Report that each Member State measures in the same way and that the figures in other countries may be better than in our country might already be part of the answer and may already be some form of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. Allow me first to endorse the last point raised by Mrs De Coninck. With regard to the registration of punctuality, we in our Committee on Infrastructure once conceived the plan to discuss this with the travel organizations. I believe that the registration of punctuality will always be open to discussion. After all, all trains can run punctual for a whole day, but if just your train is delayed, that feels like one hundred percent is not punctual. Good, unambiguous registration is of course important. The way in which registration should be carried out may perhaps be the subject of further debate. One can discuss whether a six-minute delay train is punctual or not. In a second point, I would also like to make a positive note. It's not always easy to have trains running punctually. We have been saying for ten years that punctuality must be the absolute priority. However, both in the snowstorm in December 2017 and in the storm of two weeks ago, SNCB continued to drive, albeit with the necessary difficulties. SNCB has been able to take its travelers anywhere. In the Netherlands, rail traffic was completely shut down. The storm was somewhat heavier in the Netherlands than in Belgium. Storm weather has a very negative impact on the punctuality figures, yet everyone appreciates that every effort is made to make the trains run, even though that is often not quite punctual. That is a positive element. Again, we have been asking for ten years to improve punctuality. There is always good will and commitment, but it is sometimes frustrating to ask again and again how punctuality problems can be solved or how punctuality can be improved. A number of concrete action points are now being put forward again, which is a good thing. However, I would like to stress once again that good communication with travellers is crucial in the event of problems. There is certainly still progress to be made in this area. With regard to line managers, I would like to point out that the Antwerp-Charleroi line is one of the five lines that are followed very closely. I would recommend that this line be extended a little longer, namely until Essen, so that line 12 be added in line 25 and 27. For example, the IC 45 series has had a lot of problems since the new timetable came into force. That's why I think it's worth having them followed by the line managers. Finally, I have not received an answer to my question about the punctuality figures since the new timetable. Does this mean that these figures are not yet available? Can you not provide information on the punctuality since the new transport plan came into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u51	But then do so in writing, for these questions have lasted for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u52	Minister, thank you for your long reply. You are reciting some information telegraphically, so that several aspects of your answer remain obscure, especially about line managers. Perhaps it will become clearer when I read it with rest, but I am not convinced of it. I was afraid to hear terms such as "third", "third", "external", etc. And we did, indeed. When you talk about the weather, I have the impression that this is not a new phenomenon in our country. It seems to me that there have already been in the past... Trespassing is probably a growing phenomenon. However, there are solutions in terms of security, but they are likely to be insufficiently implemented. You say that increasing productivity is a way down staffing. But it can also be part of the punctuality problem. It seems to you difficult to establish a relationship between the two, but this answer seems a little easy. The internal causes of the decline in punctuality should be further examined, in particular by reflecting on the impact of the savings imposed by that Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u53	We're closing, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u54	I don't think I've exceeded my speaking time too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u55	Yes, yes, Mr. Van Hees. You exceeded the minute you were given.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u56	Time passes fast!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u57	Yes, time passes fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u58	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you were not there to ask your question, but you can reply in a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u59	Madam President, I was in another committee and I was not aware that the questions were already being discussed here. TrainTramBus, Navetteurs.be and TestBuy also perform monthly measurements in the field of punctuality. These figures are more detailed and less good than the official figures. You say that this was placed next to each other in a meeting, and that Infrabel is the only body competent to measure punctuality. All right, but I would like to call on you to keep following the figures of the travelers' organisations and to keep putting them next to each other, because this cannot just be pushed aside. It's another way of measuring, a more detailed way too. We can only learn from it. The objective of all of us is to improve punctuality. That is why I call for attention to be paid to the other measurements and I call on you to continue to compare and learn from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u60	Question No 22789 by Mr Calvo is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u61	Madam President, Minister, on 22 December 2017, the press referred to the SNCB's plan to build a new seat, which would be between 79,700 and 84,100 square metres, on Avenue Fonsny in Brussels. According to this information, the sale of other buildings must finance the project. These sales would even be linked to the construction of the new headquarters within the same market. Minister, what is the estimate of construction costs? What is the estimate of the potential selling price of the four buildings concerned? What guarantees do we have that SNCB, given its financial position, will not sell these real estate assets significantly below their value? What is the assessment of achievable savings on operating costs? It will be awarded 45 points out of 100 on the basis of the conceptual qualities of the projects. How much of these 45 points are concerned with environmental aspects? Finally, is real estate investment a priority in SNCB's investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u62	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, at the meeting on 27 October 2017, the Board of Directors of SNCB gave its approval to the launch of the selection procedure via a negotiated procedure with a prior call for competition at Belgian and European level for the dossier "Real estate project for SNCB buildings in Brussels-Midi". Publication by electronic means was carried out on 7 December 2017. This is a very important and voluminous dossier, including both the construction of the new headquarters of SNCB and the sale of SNCB's real estate located near the Brussels-Midi station, which is a fairly important whole. SNCB informs me that it will, in particular, ensure, through the selection and award criteria for this contract, that revenues from the sale are maximized and that the cost of the new head office is limited. As the procedure is under way and in order to ensure full competition, SNCB indicates that it does not wish to disclose information that could influence the bids of potential candidates at this time. In December 2017, SNCB identified its three core activities, its four values and its five priority objectives for the coming years. In this regard, SNCB states that it intends to give priority to investments in quality of service for its travellers. However, it points out that collaboration and, therefore, the creation of a stimulating working environment in which everyone is willing to cooperate within their team and with other entities is one of the four core values of SNCB. For the moment, the various directions of the SNCB are housed in ten buildings located around the Gare du Midi. This division of services does not facilitate internal communication, collaboration or efficiency of the company, three essential elements for a successful company wishing to offer good service to its customers. On the other hand, some buildings no longer meet the requirements of a modern company which must be able to have optimal accommodation adapted to the new working methods. It is therefore important for SNCB to bring all employees together as soon as possible in one seat. It should be stressed in this regard that investment in this headquarters goes hand in hand with disinvestment in office buildings and their valuation, as they will no longer be necessary for core activities. This development will also allow public funds to be allocated as a matter of priority to investments in passenger service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u63	Minister, I take note of the fact that I am not entitled to the figures on this issue. Let us hope that this does not put too much pressure on the budget of SNCB! Real estate investments can, as we know, lead very far. There were pharaonic stations. Let us hope that this is not, in this case, a project of this dimension that would undermine its capacity in a context where the government is already cutting heavily in the way of SNCB. It would be sad if, in addition, part of the remaining endowment fled into real estate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u64	Minister, my question is about the alignment between lines and equipment equipped with the ETCS system. According to our information, for several years, trains running on line 139 were of the Desiro type, which is equipped with the ETCS system. Until recently, line 139 was not fully equipped with ETCS. The line was, but not the equipment, which means that most of the time, the end of train journeys did not benefit from this safety system. Since the weekend of December 16 and 17, 2017, Leuven station is finally equipped with the system. But the new transport plan, put in place a few days earlier, changed the composition of the rolling stock: classic motor cars that are fifty years old and are not equipped with ETCS were reintroduced on the line. Meanwhile, Desiro trains run on lines that are not equipped. What is the cause of this situation? How many ETCS-equipped trains are currently running on lines that are not fully equipped? Can you provide me with a list of the lines currently equipped with ETCS and the equipment running on these lines, indicating whether or not it is equipped with ETCS? For 2017, how many kilometres were covered by all inland passenger trains and, of this total, how many kilometres were covered with ETCS support both on the track and on the train? I'm asking you the same question about freight trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u65	Mr Van Hees, I will remind you of two points. There are oral questions and written questions. I'm not blaming you, but you're asking for a series of numbers. However, you are not present during the discussions on safety, ETCS and visits. All these data are provided by SNCB and Infrabel. I therefore ask you, when you request such a list of quantitative data, to do so in the form of a written question. The Minister is committed to responding quickly. But I don't want to hear a lot of numbers here. Here we do qualitative work. Minister, you'll give him these figures after that and you don't read them. We're going to go crazy! Mr Van Hees, the minister can normally answer you in three minutes. If I abide by the Rules of Procedure, you will not have your answer to this oral question, which you would have had correctly if you had asked a written question. I'm telling everyone. We can deal with quality. If we ask for respect for the rules, I will cut the minister off after three minutes and it will be over. You'll have nothing to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u66	Madam President, I will answer you on both points. First, you're talking about auditions. I am not present at everything, of course, since we are only two. However, I was present at some hearings where ETCS coverage was discussed, including the Saint-Georges accident, where 99.9% coverage was mentioned. In the end, it did not correspond to a physical cover. Secondly, of course, I expect a qualitative answer to my question. On the quantitative side, if a written answer is attached to the oral response, I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u67	That is not how we function.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u68	That is how many commissions operate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u69	The written data will be provided to you, otherwise we will all go crazy. I can assure you that from the next time on, the questions/answers will be strictly limited to what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. That way, sir, you won't get half of your answers. I spend hours here, and the Speaker always reminds the Conference of Presidents that both ministers and parliamentarians must abide by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u70	Madam President, we have received a painting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u71	Dear colleague, Infrabel and SNCB inform me that since the use of rolling stock is trivialised, SNCB does not consider it possible, for operational reasons, to assign rolling stock equipped with ETCS only on lines equipped with ETCS. For example, some lines are not equipped from end to end with a single security system. Of course, when ETCS hardware runs on ETCS tracks, the ETCS function is activated. When this is not the case, the TBL1+ function is operational. The compatibility of safety systems equipped with infrastructure, on the one hand, and rolling stock, on the other hand, is ensured. Trains are always protected by the most efficient system available on the tracks and the train itself. I would remind you that following the Buizingen accident, the investments in safety of SNCB and Infrabel have been adapted and implemented through the ETCS Masterplan, which sets out the principles for the establishment of safety systems in the Belgian railway network. In this context, the deployment of the TBL1+ was fully completed at the end of 2015, as foreseen in the ETCS Masterplan. At the end of 2016, 4,810 km of main tracks were equipped with this system, or 73.8%. The ETCS system, on the other hand, was equipped at the end of 2016 - data for 2017 will soon be available - 20% of the main tracks, i.e. 1,264 km. This makes the Belgian network, one of the best European students in ETCS deployment. By 2022, the network will be complete. We'll be the best students. This deployment follows its course on the network. The main links equipped with the ETCS system are Leuven-Ottignies-Namur-Luxembourg border, Leuven-Liège-German border, Leuven-Mechelen-Antvers-Dutch border, inland network of the port of Antwerp. I'll give you a map that will give the details. The number of trains/km travelled by domestic passenger trains between 1 January and 30 November 2017, the December 2017 data being not yet definitive, is 79.5 million trains/km. At the end of 2017, 41.8% of SNCB's offer for public service missions is equipped with ETCS. They provide 42.8% of the number of trains/km/travellers. In the case of freight transport, I would point out that already twelve operators are authorised on the Belgian network. At this stage, it is impossible to legally impose ETCS equipment on them. These companies are private and it is impossible to determine the number of kilometres travelled with ETCS support both on the track and on the train. In 2017, the actual number of trains/km for goods was 13.7 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u72	Minister, thank you for your information and for the data you have slipped me. What I remember from your answer is that the coverage is progressing but that we are still far from having full and even majority coverage on the network. Furthermore, if I understood your answer correctly, there is no match between having ETCS-equipped trains and lines. We're going a little blind. We simply rely on ETCS progress to hope to have a larger coverage, but not through the concordance of trains and lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u73	Minister, this question concerns an incident that occurred at a crossing at Morlanwelz. The rail accident, which occurred shortly before in the same municipality, is a matter of concern. I remember that on December 21, 2017, a temporary defect appeared at a Morlanwelz crossing. The lights went red, but the barriers did not close. No train passed in the next few moments. You will understand that after the railway drama in the commune, such an incident – even if it may seem trivial – sows the trouble and poses a question. Minister, is Infrabel aware of such facts? What is the cause of this type of incident? What can Infrabel do to prevent this type of incident? Can you provide me with figures on the frequency of this type of incident on the network?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u74	Dear colleague, Infrabel informs me of the following. The signalling system installed in Morlanwelz does not allow to trace what could have happened at that time. The design of the system, on the other hand, is so-called fail-safe, which means that in the event of any doubt about a crossing element, the crossing will become safe in order not to put the train or the road user at risk. Every crossing shall be checked periodically to ensure its proper functioning, as well as its components, with a view to preventing malfunctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u75	Minister, thank you. If I understand correctly, the light goes red even if there is no train. It's better if he goes red for nothing than the other way around. I can understand that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u76	Question No 22845 by Mrs Dumery is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u77	Madam President, Minister, on 22 December 2017, the Council of the European Union approved the agreement concluded on 29 November 2017 with the European Parliament revising the common safety rules for civil aviation. A new mission for the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) has also been defined. This reform includes the first-ever EU-wide rules on civil drones allowing remotely controlled aircraft of all sizes to fly safely in European airspace, while providing legal certainty to this expanding industry. The aim of these new rules is to create the right conditions for the European Union to have the capacity to manage the expected increase in air traffic by 50% over the next 20 years and to prepare the European Union's air sector for strong global competition. Remains the stage of legal and linguistic finalization within the European Union, followed by the agreement of the European Parliament and the Council. Mr Minister, what will be Belgium's contribution or possible amendments to this European reform in the two assemblies, that of the European Parliament and that of the European Council? What will be the most important points to adapt in our legislation in order to comply with these new European rules governing the use of civil drones? Finally, at what level is Belgium present within EASA? Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u78	Dear colleague, Belgium, through the Permanent Representation supported by an expert from DGTA, has had a decisive influence upstream on the reform of the new basic regulation called the "AESA Regulation" in the field of civil aviation safety – recast of Regulation 216/2008, in particular for the drone sector. During the internal negotiations in the General Guidelines Council and in preparation for the meetings of the informal trialogue with the European Parliament, the Belgian delegation regularly made written proposals, most of which were incorporated into the overall text of the final compromise. Once the agreed text has been translated into all the languages of the European Union and verified by the legal/linguistic community, it should be formally approved by Parliament in plenary session and then by the Council (first reading agreement). The procedure is expected to be completed in spring 2018. After adoption, the Regulation will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. It will come into force 20 days after publication. However, it should be pointed out that the entry into force does not mean implementation, since European regulations generally provide for a deadline for adaptation before the date of implementation. The drone rules in the new basic regulation provide the basic principles for ensuring the safety, security, privacy and protection of personal data for all drones. In line with the position expressed by Belgium in the compromise negotiations, there will also be constraints on the noise and emissions generated by drones, as is the case for all other aircraft. High-risk drone operations will require certification by EASA, while the lowest-risk drones will simply have to comply with normal EU market surveillance mechanisms via the Economy FPS. A new innovative concept relates to the recording of drones; drone operators must be registered if they operate drones that can transfer more than 80 kinetic energy joules during an impact with a person. So it's a weight-speed ratio. This threshold may be amended in the future without a lengthy procedure, by means of a delegated act to take account of any developments in the sector. More detailed requirements for drones based on the principles set out will also be promulgated in a future Commission Implementing Regulation. Amendments to national legislation will depend on the final content of the Regulation. With regard to the European Regulation, the new basic Regulation and the Implementing Regulation will be directly applicable under Belgian law. Belgium is represented in the ad hoc working groups, in the Strategic Committee and in the EASA Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u79	The minister's answer seems to me to be very complete, I have no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u80	Questions Nos 22882, 22883 and 22884 by Mrs Poncelet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u81	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, once again this is a question concerning the provision of services to persons with reduced mobility. A number of other colleagues and I have already asked several questions about this. In principle, it is never intended to focus attention on an individual case, but it is thanks to individual cases that we can check whether the standardised procedure works properly. The specific case in question concerns an editor of a newspaper who had to wait for assistance on 9 January. The story appeared in the press. I will not go into the details here. However, it is the reason to ask questions about policy in general. I would like to make it clear that I am convinced that a great many people at SNCB are doing their best to avoid such incidents. However, sometimes we notice that there are still structural problems which prevent certain commitments from being implemented. I have the following questions for you. How many complaints did SNCB receive in 2017 about the requests for assistance or about the assistance itself? Does SNCB have sufficient staff available to process all applications? There is always a 20-minute buffer time that must be respected in the event of a switch. Is that realistic? Isn't that buffer time too long? What is the reason for this buffer time? According to the multi-annual investment plan, EUR 450 million would be earmarked for station access. Five stations per year would be made accessible to people with reduced mobility. How's that going? Every time I ask this question, it is also about reducing the booking period. It's often studied, but is there any conclusion to be drawn?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u82	I have a similar question following the case that appeared in the press two weeks ago. A wheelchair user needed assistance to take the train, but some things went terribly wrong. For unclear reasons, his request for assistance was not registered. As a result, the person in question did not find anyone on arrival at the station of Brussels-Noord who would help him to switch to the train to Antwerp. A number of calls have been made, but in the end this man had to wait two hours in the cold on the platform for the necessary assistance. The man in question would have received a text message the night before confirming his request for assistance. However, he did not appear to be on effective planning the day after. How could something like that happen? Did something technically go wrong? Is that common? The gentleman in question was told that there were too few staff to help him, with the result that he could not take the train to work. That's not a one-time thing. If the figures I have are correct, 786 requests for assistance would have been refused in 2015. In 2016 there were 839. Do you know how often people whose application was granted do not end up on the requested train in time? Would it not be advisable to have a view on this in the future? Since September 2017, people with disabilities in 41 stations can enjoy the reduced reservation time for assistance requests. That is an extension of the offer. How does the introduction of the shortened reservation time in the 23 new stations proceed? Can everyone there be helped in time? Is there sufficient staff available? In consultation with the Secretary of State for Disabled People's Policy, Mrs Demir, you also worked out a number of initiatives aimed at improving the accessibility of SNCB. These initiatives were included in the Summer Agreement. How are we doing on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u83	Mr Minister, since 15 January, the Brussels-Schuman railway station has, in theory, been accessible to people with reduced mobility. However, on the occasion of this supposed good news, voices are heard to regret the difficulties encountered by these travellers. In practice, it is impossible for a person in a wheelchair to travel independently across the entire rail network. There is not yet a standard height unit for wharfs and trains; cars reserved for persons with reduced mobility are never in the same place, which is obviously a waste of time and difficulties for these people. It is therefore always necessary to use a mobile ramp and the assistance of two SNCB employees. If train attendants deploy the ramp, they may face sanctions. They're not allowed. This procedure requires a 24-hour reservation in advance. Officially, 90 stations are declared fully accessible to persons with disabilities, whether they are visually impaired, hearing impaired, injured or with reduced mobility. But it is our responsibility that these 90 stations do not have all the necessary staff to deal with them. How many of the 90 stations have sufficient staff at all times to help train up or down? How is it that cars reserved for persons with reduced mobility are never in the same place? Are there any avenues for solving this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u84	Dear colleague, boarding people with reduced mobility on trains is a delicate operation in terms of passenger safety. It results in a simple accompaniment for relatively mobile people, such as blind people, which the captain can do at each station provided that the passenger concerned has been identified. In the case of less mobile passengers, such as a person in a wheelchair, this action involves more extensive logistical means, such as a loading platform to compensate for the difference in height between the dock and the train. These platforms are not transportable from station to station as required and must be handled by specially trained personnel. This is why assistance is organised at certain stations, in this case Liège-Guillemins, Rivage and Marloie (line 43). SNCB informs me that it is examining the possibility of extending this service to other stations. In addition, SNCB confirms that it has planned in the multi-annual investment plan 2018-2022 the objective of making fully accessible to the PMR five stations per year, on average. This IPP was approved by the Board of Directors of SNCB on 27 October 2017 and will be submitted at the end of the week to the Council of Ministers. Investments for this objective are budgeted in the IPP and are integrated into a multitude of global projects for the renovation and construction of passenger infrastructure. In the first nine months of 2017, customer service received 58 complaints about assistance for persons with reduced mobility. SNCB confirms that I have, in principle, sufficient staff to handle requests for PMR assistance. It is exceptional that assistance cannot take place; for example, sick staff or the flow of requests for assistance. She informs me that although she may not always be able to respond to all requests for intervention (only in 2% of cases), this does not mean that the client was not able to travel. Indeed, an alternative is often found and proposed. The 20 minutes referred to by Mr Geerts are the number of minutes that persons with reduced mobility must be present in advance in the station before the start of their assistance. In the case of the switch, SNCB shall take into account 15 minutes of switching time. This time is needed for the movement between platforms, where in certain cases service must be considered, applying specific safety procedures. SNCB also informs me that it is looking for a solution to extend its services with reduced reservation time. In your question, Mr Raskin, you refer to a specific case where you say that SNCB would have left the passenger in a wheelchair in the cold. SNCB informs me that his request for assistance could not be confirmed because there was a technical problem with the SMS system. No figures are available for assistance granted where the customer does not arrive on the requested train in time. However, there are numbers of deleted assistance requests. In this category, applications are for various reasons, customer do not show up, customer does not mention in time in the request. Since September 2017, only 27 requests for assistance were refused for this three-hour application in advance, out of a total of 946 applications. With regard to initiatives to improve accessibility for persons with disabilities, the main points of attention identified in consultation with my colleague Mrs Demir are as follows. 1. Uniformization of the height of the wharfs. In management contracts, the platform height standard is set at 76 cm. Budgets are provided for in the IPPs in order to achieve, in the long term, a uniform level of these. 2. The standardization of rolling stock when purchasing new equipment and the access height of platforms. 3. Visual and auditory information on board the train. More specifically, it will be requested to implement an appropriate announcement of track changes via light panels and sound announcements. 4. The accessibility of the toilets. 5. Reduction of the booking time. On all these points, improvements have already been made or are being discussed under management contracts and IPPs. Finally, to answer Mr. Van Hees, it is important to distinguish between accessibility of stations in terms of infrastructure and assistance at stations. In stations offering assistance, the person with reduced mobility is accompanied from the entrance of the station to the train by a staff member. This can be done through public access, but also through staff-only access; for example, level track crossings at the end of the wharves. SNCB tells me that PMRs can have personalized assistance at 132 stations. For 40 of them, the reservation period is reduced to three hours instead of 24. In recent years, SNCB has continuously improved service to PMRs. In terms of infrastructure, a station or stop point is fully accessible to PMRs if it meets four criteria: - the docks at 76 cm; - all docks are accessible directly through the public space, via a railway station building or via a lane corridor or a bridge equipped with an elevator or ramp; - all docks are equipped with guide lines, podotactile path; - there is at least one accessible ticket sales machine. Based on these criteria, 63 stations currently meet the PMR accessibility criteria. These stations therefore allow a PMR to operate independently from one wharf to another without assistance. However, for some RMPs, the assistance of a staff member is essential to embark or disembark from the train. For example, for wheelchair RMPs, it is necessary for a staff member to install a mobile ramp, regardless of the height of the wharfs. There are 21 stations that are accessible in terms of infrastructure and offer assistance services. It is not possible to accurately trace PMR waiting areas on the wharves, since the SNCB park is too diverse. SNCB ensures that it tries to comply as much as possible with the intended composition of its trains. However, technical problems and operational needs sometimes mean that the composition of trains changes and therefore it is not always possible for PMR cars to be consistently located in the same place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive answer. I will read it again and, if necessary, ask additional written questions. I repeat: I know that efforts are being made. However, in an inclusive society, people expect continued efforts in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u86	As regards the specific case, Minister, I understand that this was partly due to a technical problem. That can always be done, and one must understand that. To make a long story short: the problem does not occur daily. That's good news. SNCB is still looking for additional solutions to extend the provision of services to people with reduced mobility. I call for this ambition to be given priority and an inclusive society, as Mr Geerts says. The service is what it is, but we can still take some steps. Indeed, the roll-out of initiatives takes some time, and we cannot expect all this to be realised tomorrow. I ask you to monitor this process and to achieve the stated ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u87	Minister, have I heard in your answer that there are only 2% of the requests that are met?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u88	2 per cent of requests were not met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u89	It's the other way around. You reassure me. For the rest, you tell us that there is rarely a shortage of staff who can respond to requests. That's not what we get from the inside. We are told by SNCB staff that this happens frequently. Your answer and the echoes we have are therefore not consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u90	That is not my answer, but that of SNCB. So this one comes from inside.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u91	That's right. There are therefore different versions that circulate within the SNCB. I'm a little surprised. For the rest, I take note of your figures, which are probably more up-to-date than mine. Let us hope that this process of improving travel conditions for people with reduced mobility will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u92	Mr. Lachaert is not coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u93	Madam President, Minister, I know that some of the elements of this issue have been discussed earlier, following the inquiry of some of us by the association Shuttles.be. It tells us that since 10 December 2017 and the entry into force of the new SNCB transport plan, the source of punctuality data on which they base their punctuality reports is no longer available. Minister, do you confirm this information? How does SNCB justify such an attitude? If these data are proven, do you intend to take steps to require SNCB to make these data available again, particularly in light of the Open Data principles that require SNCB to make these data available?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u94	I agree with the honourable Member's question. I added my question to a previous question on open data policy. In the meantime, I have learned that there was a technical problem with the website regarding the accessibility of the data. Minister, I hope you can confirm that it was not a deliberate move to protect the data. I understand that was not the case. My question was more generally about the open data policy of the SNCB Group, following the resolution we adopted here in the Chamber in July 2015. In 2016, the draft law on the re-use of public sector information was also adopted. In accordance with that law, SNCB has also been releasing real-time data since 2017. However, in exchange for the use of this data, a form must be filled out and a licence agreement must be signed. That license prohibits the distribution of raw data. Minister, how many contracts did SNCB already conclude for the use of data? How many applications were there? I would like to get an overview from 2016. Were applications refused, too? If so, on what basis? Is it mainly large companies or also small initiatives such as app start-ups and developers? Can you give me an overview? In our previous question on the problem, you indicated that SNCB wants to work with a tariff system that takes account of the costs involved. Is such a provision included in the management contracts? Will costs indeed be charged? Will the management contract explicitly state that SNCB must release its timetable and real-time information? What information does Infrabel make available as open data? I also had a question about the availability of the punctuality figures, but it has already been asked by Mr Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u95	I think my question was better added to the debate under item 16, because it is mainly about the worse punctuality figures. A number of elements have already been mentioned. However, I would like to talk about the different methods of measuring and interpreting the results. With regard to the six-minute arrangement, you said that it was an international agreement. In the Netherlands and Switzerland, however, this has been reduced to three minutes. Traveller organisations also use this time. You also mentioned the consultation with the travel organizations. The conclusions were not entirely clear to me. When drawing up the management agreement, will the CRB's advice be taken into account to use the new method of measuring and to look at the stopovers? I shall now turn to my last question, since the others have already been asked. It appears that certain data have been recoded, which means that the passenger organisations no longer have access to the punctuality data. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB has been making available its scheduled schedules in Open Data since September 2015. Real-time hourly data have been available since April 2017. The data shall be made available to third parties free of charge by signing a contract. As of 25 January 2018, SNCB had signed 119 contracts for its Open Data hourly data. Since September 2015, SNCB has received 797 contract applications from its website. SNCB states that to date, no applications have been refused and that all applications are processed within two business days. Applications that did not result in contracts relate to applications withdrawn by applicants after receipt of the standard contract. According to the recommendations of the Open Data Act, the current contract does not require the applicant to justify its nature – individual, university, start-up, large company – which it does not do in the majority of cases. The summary analysis of the email addresses recorded in the contracts suggests that the current user panel is a mix of individuals, universities, startups and large companies. On 13 December 2017, SNCB sent a survey to Open Data users to learn more about usages. Currently, only 5 users have provided feedback and the results are being analysed. As I have just mentioned, the data are made available free of charge by signing a contract. SNCB confirms that it does not intend to change the conditions in the future. The text of the management contract does not explicitly mention open dates, because SNCB simply respects the law in this matter. Mrs Grovonius, the situation described by the commuter associations in December 2017 immediately challenged SNCB. No changes were made to its website as part of the introduction of the transport plan on 10 December. The SNCB has never been asked to deliberately conceal any information. During December, SNCB's current website experienced several accessibility concerns. Unfortunately, the site has been partially or totally blocked on several occasions, as has the sales module. It is therefore possible that the application generating the certificates of delay has also been affected. SNCB informs me that since then the site has been working properly and that certificates of delay can always be generated within a week. I had a meeting with the travel organizations on the punctuality of the railways on the position of SNCB and Infrabel on the methodology. A joint analysis of Infrabel and SNCB was delivered to me on 22 January 2018. Let me clarify its main points. According to the management contract, established with the federal government, only Infrabel has the power to calculate the punctuality figures. The proposal of the passenger association differs from the methodology currently applied by Infrabel on a number of points. Since the methodologies are different, the results are of course also different. The overall punctuality figure, calculated by Infrabel, is a summary of the figures of punctuality of the 3 800 trains, which each day bring the passengers to their destination. For this reason, the various other punctuality statistics are communicated in more detail externally by Infrabel and SNCB. The statistics can be consulted on the public website of both companies. The punctuality in 2017 was worse than in 2016 and 2015, but better than the years before. The punctuality was mainly influenced by a number of phenomena. I'm not going to repeat what I said earlier. As far as line managers are concerned, I refer you to the information I provided in response to the oral questions asked earlier. As for the calculation method and the publication of punctuality data at Infrabel, negotiations on Infrabel's management contract are still under way. In this context, the publication of punctuality data is given special attention in order to also meet the expectations and requests of commuter associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. If this was indeed a technical problem, let us hope that it is resolved today. We will undoubtedly have a return from the association Shuttles.be in this regard. Another important element is, of course, to realize how different the data that commuters provide and those that are officially produced by SNCB are. It is essential that all these data be taken into account in order to reflect as much as possible the daily lives of commuters using the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u98	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Some of them we had already heard in the answer to the merged questions on the punctuality figures of SNCB. The debate on measurement and on the three-minute scheme remains open. It should be compared with the Netherlands and Switzerland, but that is a debate for later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u99	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It was a positive response to the application of the open data rules. Although the concerns expressed by the travel organizations were justified, it is fortunate that this was not a conscious strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u100	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lachaert's 22918 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u101	Madam President, Minister, together with a number of colleagues, I have already asked a number of questions about Blue Mobility and Blue Bikes. In your reply you made it clear that this is not actually a core task of SNCB. You announced that SNCB would withdraw from Blue Mobility. We were also able to read recently that Flemish minister Weyts said that De Lijn is interested in a takeover. How will this operation go? Will the majority share in Blue-Mobility be sold to De Lijn? Are the statements made by Minister Weyts and are these negotiations currently under way? What are the criteria? What will be the impact for the municipal authorities? Many municipalities participate in the operation. What does this mean for the concept of an integrated transport ticket? Does this have an impact on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u102	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mr Geerts' question. It is now two and a half years since Parliament adopted a resolution calling for greater attention to be paid to the combination of bicycle and train. Part cycle systems play a very important role in this. Blue-bike is an important player because this system can also offer a bike in smaller stations and other mobility nodes. Blue-bike now has more than 20 000 members, accounting for 225 000 journeys. These positive figures were communicated last week through a press release. Both the number of members and the number of journeys is growing. However, if you compare this with the Netherlands, we still have a long way to go. The public transport bike, the OV-fiets, has 500 000 members in the Netherlands. This is a lot different than the 20 000. Blue-bike has been working on a new business plan for investment for some time. At the same time, the uncertainty about the shareholding of Blue-Mobility continues. SNCB would like to get out of the sub-system, even though Minister Weyts said that SNCB would still want to retain shares. He explained this in the Flemish Parliament. Several other parties indicated that they were already interested. I refer to Cambio, Mobit, The Line, the Bicycle Chain! And so on. Each of these players believes in the bike system and wants to contribute. For example, Mobit has the QR technology at home, which could make the key machines redundant. Pending a decision, SNCB lent EUR 300 000 to Blue-Mobility to ensure continuity of activities. The growth scenario in the business plan was adjusted. In 2018 Blue-bike wants to go for new locations and improved bikes. It is being examined whether enlargement is necessary in the major cities. Firstly, what is the status of Blue-Mobility's business plan? What are the further steps and what timing will be used? Secondly, has a final decision already been taken on the shareholding of SNCB in Blue Mobility? Thirdly, can you explain the choice regarding the loan to Blue-Mobility? Fourthly, what is your view on the role of SNCB in Blue-bike and the combination of train/bike? In what way will this vision take shape in the management contract? Finally, what is your view on the Dutch system where 500 000 train passengers are reached without subscription costs who can handle the combination train/bicycle in a very easy way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB has repeatedly expressed its desire to concentrate on its core activities. This goes from timely, accurate information to the traveller, to safe reception infrastructure in the stations, including parkings and bicycle storage. However, the management of car parks or bicycle parks is not one of them. In that option, SNCB decided to sell its majority share. Several parties have shown their interest. The other shareholders also have a pre-sale right. As for any specific activity in which the commercial market is active, it is not appropriate to publish detailed information on the sales criteria. The aim is to ensure the continuity of Blue-Bike's activities. As I said in this committee on 3 October 2017, the decision to make EUR 300 000 available to Blue-bike was also part of this continuity of activities. SNCB will continue to show a positive attitude, even after the sale of its shares. SNCB has an important place on the bike in terms of intermodality and will continue to provide good parking for bicycles. It is looking for a partnership with specialised partners for the management and maintenance of bicycles. SNCB focuses its attention on the intermodality of train/bicycle to stimulate the modal shift and to ensure the first mile and the load mile as best as possible, rather than at the bicycle points. I can also confirm that since December it is possible to rent a Blue-bike with a Mobib card.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u104	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have repeated here that SNCB wants to get rid of the Blue Bikes. That's a choice. In his explanatory statement, Mr Van den Bergh referred to the Dutch example. I did the same in my previous question. I do not understand why the passenger potential that can be tapped there is always said by SNCB that it wants to transport more passengers and that it is not fully exploited. Another element of criticism remains. Tonight, for example, our city council will meet together with the province of Antwerp about the cycling points. My conclusion is that we do want to develop a bicycle policy but that costs are being transferred more and more to the municipal authorities. As a municipality, we are absolutely not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have also always regretted that SNCB wanted to get rid of Blue-Mobility and did not see it as an opportunity. On the other hand, I can understand the choice somewhere. The core business must, of course, let its trains run on time. Taking care of customers throughout the chain, from door to door, is of course not insignificant either, but if this can be done through a partnership, it may lead to equally good or even better results. I note that's what they're aiming for. We will, of course, continue to follow this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u106	Minister, we learned that an accident occurred at the Masnuy-Saint-Pierre crossing, where a car was hit by a train. Fortunately, the motorist was able to get out of his car. It had been blocked on its right wheel because of a hole: it was impossible for the driver to then reverse. Despite his attempts to call 112 left unanswered, a few minutes later a collision occurred with a freight train, which could not brake in time. According to the witnesses and the victim in question, in addition to the darkness, the main cause of the accident is the absence of concrete marking posts intended to mark the turn and avoid the hole in question. According to Infrabel, the crossing is considered to be in good working order, since accidents involving the crossing are mainly caused by drivers who do not comply with the marking. In addition, the municipality of Jurbise had already previously made the system operator aware of certain points which could still improve the safety of this passage. Minister, have you been aware of Infrabel's investigation into this accident? What are the conclusions and recommendations for improving safety at this crossing? How many accidents have been recorded in this passage in recent years? Can you tell us if there will indeed be a replacement of the security elements of this crossing? When is this planned? Do you have a schedule to give us? Have the municipal authorities been consulted on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u107	Dear colleague, after investigation, it appears that the driver has been too tight on his right. His right front wheel left the limits of the carriageway when crossing the crossing and fell on the tracks. This is therefore an offence. The fences are therefore in no way the cause of this accident. Rather, it seems to be a driving error. Since 2008, no other accidents have been listed on crossing No. 74 on line 96. In addition, the fences in Masnuy-Saint-Pierre are regularly vandalized. New Jersey borders will be laid to avoid further vandalism. This work will be carried out later this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u108	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u109	Madam President, Minister, I would like to share with you today a growing problem. And, on the one hand, it's so much better because it's the sign that SNCB is doing well. Indeed, more and more people, thanks to the flexibility of the work, take the train in the course of the day and not in rush hours. It is obviously understandable, for a simple question of supply and demand, that there are fewer trains available during the day than during peak hours. However, as a result of this change in commuters' habits, major space problems are also becoming increasingly common in the afternoon. To illustrate this, I rely on accurate testimony. The train leaving at 14:47 from Brussels-Central station towards Mons consists of only three cars. Three cars are often too few to meet demand. People are therefore agglutinated standing between the different wagons. Despite the tolerance of the controllers, even the first class is crowded. To solve this problem, it would be enough to add one or two cars. Could steps be taken to address this specific problem? It is not a question of adding a train, but simply of adding one or two cars to the hours that are problematic. As far as the general issue is concerned, does SNCB actually observe a change in commuter requests? If so, can she answer that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u110	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, the following trains serve Brussels-Mons in the afternoon, outside peak hours, between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. Train 1735 from Brussels-Central at 14:17 has 506 seats. According to SNCB, there is no overoccupation problem on this train.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u111	It must be the next one then!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u112	Train 3735 departs at 1447 hours and has 212 seats. This train is not structurally overoccupied but some days experience a very important occupation. SNCB informs me that it will continue to follow this train, especially in the coming weeks, and adjust its size if necessary. Trains 1736, 3736 and 8800 depart from Brussels-Central at 15:17, 15:47 and 15:57 respectively, with 506, 1,200 and 893 places respectively. These three trains have no overoccupation problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u113	Minister, your answer proves that you are fully aware of the problem and have clearly sought solutions. There could simply be a shift from the previous train to that of 2:47 p.m., if the statistics actually show that this is what this is all about. I know that you are a realistic person, who is trying to find concrete solutions to problems when they arise, and so I fully trust you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u114	Mr Minister, the Iron Rhine file has been in ruins for years. Interested parties do not agree on the exact route the railway should follow. An international study was launched in 2015 to investigate the three possible routes. That study is now complete. This shows that the so-called third road, which runs through Venlo to the Ruhr area, is the most feasible option. An investment of EUR 770 million would be needed to prepare the entire journey for freight transport. Mr Minister, first of all, according to the study, the Iron Rhine could be an important alternative to the Montzen route, which is currently full of peak moments. In addition, the lack of alternative causes problems, if there is an accident on the Montzenroute or if the track needs to be maintained. Do you acknowledge the conclusion of the study? Secondly, the Flemish Government has already announced its intention to take the lead in diplomatic consultations with the Netherlands and Germany. Are you willing to take part in this? Finally, have you had any recent contact with your Dutch and German colleagues on the Iron Rhine file? If so, can you tell us more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u115	Minister, Mr Raskin referred to the three routes. The study of Rhein-Ruhr Rail Connection shows that the third option is the best, because a nature reserve is being bypassed and because it is a cheap option. However, an investment of EUR 770 million would be needed to enable long-distance freight transport. Apparently, there would already be EUR 180 million in the various investment plans. The feasibility study predicts that there would be 19 freight trains for the route on a daily basis, for the stool of the Montzenroute. This study therefore predicts a limited modal shift from road to rail transport. On the other hand, there will be a shift from rail to rail, while it is necessary to get freight from road to rail. Firstly, what is your response to the prediction of the study on the limited modal shift? Secondly, the other routes were more expensive, but would they lead to a larger modal shift? Thirdly, were Infrabel and the FPS Mobility involved in the study? Fourthly, Minister Weyts will start consultations with the Netherlands and Germany. Is the federal government involved? Fifthly, what resources are being entered for investment? Sixthly, how will the financing of the third stage via Venlo be arranged between the other partners? Seventh, is there a co-financing of the operators? Finally, by when do you expect the project to be realised?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u116	Minister, I agree with previous speakers. I read in the study that the federal government would oversee the steering committee. What was that surveillance? How and when will the various governments of our country sit around the table in order to reach a common position? In what way will consultation with the Dutch and German authorities take place? In what way will environmental factors, such as noise pollution, protection of fauna, flora and air pollution, play a role in determining our country's position? Indeed, the study states that double tracks would increase the disturbance of surrounding areas. What kind of "disruption" are we talking about? Is there any need for further research in this area? Will the federal government carry out more research on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u117	The 3RX study, conducted between December 2015 and December 2017, examined three alternative routes for the Iron Rhine: the historical route via Weert and Roermond, the A52 alternative and the 3RX route or the Rhein-Ruhr Rail Connection via Venlo and Viersen. This is done in economic, technical, spatial, social and environmental terms. The study was an initiative of the Flemish government and was co-financed by the European Commission. It was carried out under the supervision of a steering committee with representatives of the various parties involved. These are Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Flanders and North Rhine-Westphalia. The conclusions in the final report are therefore recognised by all members. It is now awaiting a Flemish initiative to start consultations with the partners from the neighbouring countries. The social cost-benefit analysis, together with the assessment of transport forecasts, is an essential part of the 3RX study. Infrabel, Prorail and DB Netz have contributed to the detailing of the various routes and the costs. The study shows that, on the basis of an average growth scenario, 21 trains per day would use the 3RX route by 2040, i.e. 3.2 million tonnes per year. The investment costs in the cheapest 3RX route study are estimated at EUR 770 million, excluding VAT. As for the historical route and the A52 route, the cost of the 3RX route is greater than the social benefits. In addition, there are no significant differences in modal shift between the three routes. The Montzenroute is currently by far the most used route between our seaports and Germany. However, that route is not the shortest connection and has limitations, partly due to the less favourable profile of the route. Due to the busy occupation, disturbances often have a large effect. This makes the 3RX route a potentially valuable alternative for the stool of other routes in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany and as a back-up in case of calamities on other east-west rail links. An increase in rail transport on the 3RX route and the limited additional intake for necessary infrastructure would create a local additional burden on the environment. However, the combination of mitigation measures across the entire route with the modal shift has a positive net impact on environment and environment, both in terms of noise, emissions and safety. The study did not aim to formulate proposals on the possible distribution of financial burdens between countries and/or regions. The negotiations on the final choice of the route, the concrete design and financing will take time. Historically, the different views on financing were often difficult to reconcile. However, the 3RX study provides a common basis to resume negotiations and reach a consensus in the long term. As the initiator of the study, Flanders will take the initiative to launch the political consultations, preceded by an intra-Belgian consultation. The federal level takes responsibility in the file. The electrification of the Iron Rhine has already started on Belgian territory, where the three routes coincide. The section of the line between Herentals and Mol was electrified and put into service at the end of 2015. The electrification of the section from Mol to Hamont will start in 2018 and the electrified section will be put into service in 2020. For this purpose, a federal contribution of €47,5 million in Infrabel's strategic multi-annual investment plan for the period 2018-2031 has been registered. The electrification of this section is also the subject of a European grant application of up to EUR 18.52 million. The electrification is an important step to reactivate the Iron Rhine. The three studies show, like previous studies, that only an electrified compound can offer an interesting alternative. The federal government is therefore very closely involved in the project and is taking important steps in the coming years on the Belgian territory for the realization of that opening up to Germany. In carrying out the works, account will also be taken, where possible, of the adjustment to rail in order to allow an increase in freight traffic on that line. Also for these works, the federal government, together with the Flemish Region, has already allocated 30 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u118	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed and nuanced reply. I can follow you for a very large part of your speech. I can hear you say that the costs are still a little higher than the benefits at the moment and that the modal shift is limited. The figures in the study can, of course, be interpreted in different ways. One can discuss whether or not the Montzen line is saturated. We agree that it is quite full at peak moments. The lines to the Montzenline are also very full. From my region, South Limburg, it is impossible to organise passenger transport to Antwerp on a regular basis, because the supply lines are full of freight. We also know that the highways are flooding. One speaks of plus 50% by 2030, then we can assume that the saturation is at least coming and that the modal shift can only increase. The cost-benefit ratio will also change. I welcome your recognition that the Montzenroute has a number of disadvantages and that an alternative route can be useful. The Iron Rhine is important for the economy of the country. You also said that an initial start was made with the electrification of a piece on the line 19. I also hear you say that the third way could be a possible alternative. I'm glad to hear that. Minister Weyts said the stalemate was broken. We must continue to do this. I hear you saying that there is a common basis to get to work. I'm glad to hear that. The story will undoubtedly be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is true that 21 trains per day are very limited, but if we write off the investment at 35 years, we assume that a modal shift will happen in the long term. For 21 trains on 320 days at 35 years, a price subsidy of EUR 4 000 is proposed. All the other files show that, once the investment has been made, there is an increase. By the way, it is up to the next generation to ensure the growth of freight transport in our country. In any case, the investment costs for the surrounding municipalities of the route must be taken into account from day one. These costs should not be a stumbling block at the last minute. If there is a common basis for a route, it is also best for the local authorities concerned to develop a participation project with realistic time planning, so that everyone is with us. Today it is incredibly difficult to achieve something with an impact on infrastructure in Flanders. We need to increase support from day one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u120	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'm learning something else than my colleagues. On the one hand, there is the Iron Rhine file. I agree that the study can provide a common basis for negotiating with the other governments, where an initiative of the Flemish Government is also relevant. On the other hand, in order to achieve the Iron Rhine, there must be added or extended passages on Belgian territory and electrification must be made between Mol and Hamont and a double track on the part between Mol and Hamont, which is not yet the case. You see these two files separately, I'm distracting from your answer. I think that is very relevant; one does not have to wait for the other. You know my position on this and that of our group: passenger transport must take precedence over other transport. The study also states that permits are required, including an environmental impact report. Where there are adverse effects on the environment, risk mitigation measures should be taken to mitigate the effects. I would point out that it is suggested to carry out additional studies on noise, landscape, air quality, vibration, nature and traffic. This is required as soon as more use is made of the existing track or as soon as an additional track is built. This also confirms the study by the IOC on the subject. In any case, I am asking that, in the case of more freight transport, transport of passengers should be given absolute priority, regardless of the fact that passenger transport continues to be a priority for me, and that compensation measures for the environment should be given absolute priority, together with the completion of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u121	Mr. Secretary, I have a question about a retirement party getting out of hand. We read in the press that there was an incident at the end of October with a retirement party in the yard of Vorst. Things got a little out of hand there, with all the consequences and problems. There was a cancelled train, there were delays, illegal use of the emergency brake and so on. In a press response, SNCB's spokesperson acknowledged the retirement party and the fact that problems were caused. According to the same information, an internal investigation was initiated into the case. Mr. Secretary, can you confirm this information? What are the preliminary results of the internal investigation? What sanctions have been taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB confirms that on 26 October in Vorst a group of colleagues from the railway companies came together on the occasion of the retirement of a colleague with 40 years' service. When I received the news of the incident, I immediately sent a letter to the SNCB CEO in which I reiterated the unacceptable nature of the fact that such an event, in particular an internal party, had an impact on the customer service and the punctuality of the trains. In view of the essential importance of safety, I have urged the CEO to remind all staff of instructions on alcohol consumption in the workplace. For its part, SNCB informs me that, although all technical operations for the preparation of trains have been carried out correctly, there has been, among other things, a coordination problem caused by the meeting, which resulted in the removal of one train and the departure of another with delay. SNCB's management confirms that it immediately denounced the lack of rogue and that the necessary internal sanctions were imposed where they were forced to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u123	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that you confirm the information, that you have asked for action and to remind people of instructions regarding alcohol and that sanctions have been taken. However, you did not mention the sanctions involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u124	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u125	You don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u126	A month on water and bread.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u127	Mr President, Minister, the parking lot at Luttre station is the subject of good news and bad news. The good news is that after long work, the said parking lot has been expanded. The bad news is that this parking lot, which was free, is now paying off. Some SNCB stations are therefore free of charge and others free of charge. It seemed to me that paying car parks were in case there was a demand for parking other than that of rail passengers. For example, in some cities where there are many requests for parking near the station, parking is paid so that motorists seeking to park in the city do not rush to the station's parking lot. But the parking lot at Luttre station is not at all in this situation since it is stuck between the railways and the canal. Apart from the inhabitants of a small block of houses that have their own parking spaces, only rail travellers are likely to park in this parking lot. Minister, what is the rationale for paying for parking at Luttre Station? Is it not paradoxical, on the one hand, to want to develop rail transport and, on the other hand, to add the price of parking to the already high price of the train? What are the different rates applied and how have they been determined? How is it that the SNCB website dedicated to Luttre station indicates that parking is free when it has become paid? Don't you think that the residents of the station may continue to experience inconvenience? In the past, their parking spaces were coveted by rail passengers due to the lack of space available in SNCB parking. And now that the parking lot has been expanded and the said residents could hope not to suffer this kind of inconvenience any more, the SNCB car park has become fee-paying and in doing so, rail travellers looking for free parking could fall back on their parking spaces.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u128	Member of the European Parliament, Luttre station has a car park of nearly 500 seats, more than double that previously. Eleven of them are reserved for persons with reduced mobility in order to best meet the demand. SNCB has also been working to improve the quality of customer reception. To this end, more than two million euros have been invested in the safety and comfort of travellers, including the 2,300 daily commuters passing through this station and which can be assumed to be subscribers. I have already answered many questions about SNCB's tariff policy with regard to its car parks. Please refer to my answers to questions Nos 435 and 1121 by Mr Philippe Pivin and 2161 by Mr Emmanuel Burton. Finally, to be complete, I would point out that the information on the SNCB site that the parking at Luttre station would be free is incorrect. Meanwhile, SNCB has corrected this information. I would remind you, however, that the price of parking for a subscriber is in the order of 1,50 or 1,60 euros per day. I don't know where the rate for a location is so low. Even timers are much more expensive. We have to regulate the prices of car parks, otherwise they are invaded by all the cars that do not have their place. Indeed, people no longer want to park in the cities where it pays. We are faced with a multitude of situations – with free or paid parking. SNCB applies a general rule and a single car park policy, charging subscribers between €1.10 and €1.60 per day. For individual tickets, it's much more expensive, I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u129	Minister, there are also free parking spaces.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u130	Indeed, but when there is no tension with the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u131	Minister, Luttre is a school case. You say, "when there is no tension with the neighborhood." Luttre is a place stuck between the railway and the canal. There are no tensions; this argument does not apply to Luttre station. So why is he still paying? That was the question. And, I'm sorry, but you answered next to the plate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u132	Because there is a comprehensive policy that all renovated SNCB car parks are now paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u133	Okay, but that's another criterion. You have given the criterion of tension and, now, it is that of renovation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u134	I really refer you to the three questions. We have given all the details of the tariff policy for SNCB's car parks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u135	I will look at these questions, and in particular Mr. Pivin's two questions, which were given two answers, but I have not had one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u136	He put them down at different times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u137	I do not think it is relevant, in terms of mobility policy, to add the price of parking to the already high price of transport per train, especially in the case of Luttre, where precisely there is no tension with the people of the city.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u138	Minister, thank you for agreeing to postpone my questions. I was retained in the Finance Committee. I would like to ask you again about the completion of the RER works in Walloon Brabant. In April 2017, you announced that you had received permission to borrow an additional EUR 1 billion in order to complete the RER work around Brussels. The Prime Minister announced at the beginning of January that this work should resume on 25 March, which you subsequently confirmed, announcing that the work would begin on the line between Groenendael and Bakenbos and then on the section between Ottignies and Louvain-la-Neuve. As far as line 124 (Brussels-Nivelles) is concerned, you have announced that the deadlines would be longer than expected, as some urban planning permits are no longer valid. Minister, can you provide us with a specific schedule of work? Can you also give us the locations of the various works that will be undertaken and the costs of these for the years 2018 and 2019? As far as line 124 is concerned, can you tell me whether an application for a new permit has already been submitted in order to replace the expired permits? Can you also tell me when meetings will take place with those who have filed appeals? Finally, with regard to the additional billion you have been able to borrow, can you give me the amounts of compensation for the extension of the network in Flanders and Wallonia in order to comply with the 60-40 allocation key?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u139	My colleague, first of all, with regard to the planning of the works, their location and the related costs on line 161, the work planned for 2018 and 2019 is as follows: the installation of the catenary portals as well as the work of moving the tracks to Groenedael and Hoeileaart. Other work will also begin: the movement of the tracks between Watermael and Boitsfort and the work planned at the Ottignies station. In 2018, Infrabel plans to carry out short-term improvement work in Ottignies, Groenendael and Boitsfort. Some ancillary works have already restarted. Work will also begin on the junction between Ottignies and Louvain-la-Neuve. On Line 124, civil engineering works will begin in 2018 north of Waterloo Station, from the border of the Flemish region, in order to expand the existing platform for the break of the third and fourth lanes. The total costs will be determined by the prices of the auction. With regard to your second question, I would like to point out that Infrabel has always been open to consensus with the various public or private partners in order to find a solution where all parties are winning. Furthermore, Infrabel has already met with the various complainants who have brought actions. Unfortunately, in some cases the positions appear to be very divergent and the appeals have been upheld. In addition, under the new permit application procedure, Infrabel's approach will remain open to dialogue and meetings with residents have already taken place, with others planned for each permit application. Finally, the application for a permit to carry out the work on the Flemish part of line 124 Brussels-Nivelles will be submitted in 2019. On the other hand, the application for a permit to carry out work in the Brussels Region will take place in mid-2018. I present to you the table with the summary of the amounts that demonstrates compliance with the allocation of key 60-40. In addition, I would like to take this opportunity to inform you of the negotiations on the cooperation agreement on the financing of strategic rail infrastructure and its implementing cooperation agreements, which, as you know, guarantee the sustainability of RER financing. The meeting of the concertation committee on 20 December 2017 enabled the agreement of the four federated entities on the text of the cooperation agreement to be reached at first reading. Discussions on implementing cooperation agreements are progressing well. Once agreement has been reached on all these texts, the cooperation agreement will be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion before being the subject of the law of consent. It is important to know, with regard to implementing cooperation agreements, that this is the first time that this mechanism has been implemented. This is a new development in the agreements of the sixth reform of the State, and so my department is a little bit of a laboratory for the implementation of these cooperation agreements. Finally, if there had been a purely political approach to the RER dossier, I would not have made a cooperation agreement or anything like that. I would have started the work and left the difficulty to my successor. I wanted to seal in a cooperation agreement that will pass before all parliaments, the whole of the implementation funding table, so that, whatever the political uncertainties of the coming years, the planning is guaranteed, the amounts are guaranteed and the commitments of both are sealed in a text that will no longer be possible to review at a later date. It contains many provisions, the 60-40 multi-year allocation key, the amounts allocated, the obligation to comply with this table that I have given you. In short, everything is there and the work will actually start again soon. Preparatory work is already under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u140	I thank the minister for his full answer and for the picture. I think that little by little, we are still progressing on this issue which has lasted for too long. I think we will also have an opportunity to come back to it, because this issue may still take time and cause some debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u141	Only Mrs De Coninck is present to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u142	Mr President, Minister, your predecessor's strategic vision was that a railway academy should be set up. In the Netherlands, the National Railway Company is now working with the Shipping and Transport College in Rotterdam to offer trainers training. In this way, the Dutch railways want to find more train drivers. The idea reminded me of the railway academy, which is the strategic vision that the current federal government has drawn up and approved. The academy would train staff and new employees. It is not entirely clear what such a railway academy should create in terms of added value compared to the current training facilities. In the meantime, last week, we were able to see the first stone laying down of the Infrabel Academy. However, Minister, the question had been put before. That is why I have the following questions for you. What are the concrete objectives of setting up the railway academy? Is the academy founded by Infrabel the result of this government's strategic vision? What differences would the railway academy create in relation to the current training facilities? Where are the plans to set up such an academy? Do you also see opportunities in cooperation between the education sector and SNCB, as in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u143	Dear colleague, unlike in other countries, there is no railway sector in Belgium. Currently, Infrabel organizes its trainings all over the country. Infrabel Academy will bring together all the training provided in the context of the life of the company. In total, more than 500 different training courses will be provided. The majority of these trainings will be in technical occupations. Infrabel Academy will also provide some 500 new employees, whom infrastructure managers welcome each year, with state-of-the-art training specifically tailored to the needs of the company. The aim is to train the students as effectively as possible. In the new centre, there will be a variety of facilities where staff can exercise extensively both in practice and outside the available areas. It's about dozens of meters of tracks, switches, consideration, signals, cell phone antennas and overhead lines. There is also a 3D simulator. The signalling staff will also be trained in the centre in order to familiarise themselves with the computer-controlled technologies used in the signalling houses. At Infrabel Academy, about 80 people will be employed. Internal and external teachers will be called upon. All offered courses can be found by the employees via the Infrabel Academy's web page on the Infrabel intranet. The construction of the Infrabel Academy is estimated at €20 million. The market is expected to end in 2020. A partnership with other educational institutions is not foreseen today. However, there has been a partnership with certain universities for several years, such as the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. Infrabel's experts regularly act as guest lecturers or give lectures there. SNCB informs me that the creation of a similar academy is being examined, but that it is not the intention to ultimately ignore the good cooperation that currently exists with the education sector or the successful initiatives to attract young people to the railways through school visits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u144	Minister, I believe that the project we were going to visit last week, the start of the Infrabel Academy, is a positive project. I think the advantage in the Netherlands is that train drivers are trained in this way. I understand from your answer that this is not really the intention of the Infrabel Academy, which will focus more on Infrabel. However, there is a need for a lot of moving staff in a short time. Maybe companies see something in a possible collaboration. As you said, SNCB is also working on this. We shall certainly follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u145	Minister, I would like to ask you about the likely closure of the Saintes crossing in the territory of the municipality of Tubize. This likely closure has already given rise to many tensions between lnfrabel and the municipality of Tubize. The first justifies its intention to close the crossing with a view to securing rail traffic and users. Many level crossings have already been closed. The municipality of Tubize, for its part, camped on its positions regretting the unilateral decision of lnfrabel and denounced the way in which the case was dealt with. According to the mayor, no accident ever occurred in this place. Moreover, this closure, if it becomes clear, will result in a part of the inhabitants of Tubize and Saintes no longer having direct access to the centre of the city. They will then have to make a detour of several kilometers to reach him. Minister, can you provide me with the latest information you have on this file? The two main actors, lnfrabel and the city of Tubize, are trying to find a solution so as not to deprive a part of the population of direct access to the city centre. What solutions are proposed? Is it a tunnel or a bridge? Are there other tracks such as building a path along the tracks? Can this lead be retained? What are the solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u146	Mr Crusnière, the proposed abolition of Saintes level 16 and 18 crossings is the result of a global mobility study conducted by an independent specialized study office on the possible abolition of different level crossings that cut line 94. It concludes that the Tubize level 18 and 19 crossings can be removed altogether. Crossing 16 can be done through the construction of a work of art located in its surroundings. This mobility study was submitted to representatives of the municipality of Tubize at a meeting held on 12 November 2015. In response to a request from the municipal administration, a further mobility study was requested from the study office to monitor the possibilities of access to three companies, which could have been affected by this abolition and in order to verify the turning capacities of rue Julien Marsille. This supplementary report was submitted to representatives of the municipality of Tubize during a meeting held on 7 January 2016. It was agreed that the strategy to remove the Tubize crossings would be as follows. First, it was decided that crossing 19 would be deleted purely and simply in the short term. It was closed on 27 May 2016. Next, No. 18 would be so, but only after the entry into service of the work of art designed to remove the crossing at level 16. The latter would be closed after the construction of the work of art commissioned by the design office. This strategy was confirmed at the Municipal College of Tubize by an Infrabel letter dated 18 May 2016. In 2017, Infrabel filed the building permit for the construction of the structure near the crossing No. 16 and the building permit for the half-tour areas to be constructed on either side of the crossing No. 18 when the crossing was removed outright. As part of this permit application, a meeting was held with representatives of the municipality of Tubize on December 7, 2017. At this meeting, the works council asked for the possibility of creating a walking path between level 16 crossings, which will be abolished and 18, which will be closed. The realization of this path does not justify itself according to the mobility study carried out by the specialized study office and has never been discussed at the meetings held so far with the municipality, Infrabel indicated, at this meeting, that she did not intend to build this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u147	I thank the Minister for his answers and clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u148	Debates of the European Parliament 23113 by Mrs Temmerman will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 23114 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 23124 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u149	Minister, I will not repeat my question entirely. It contains an earlier technical part on the regulation around category B+E. This is a category B towing vehicle with a trailer or semi-trailer with a maximum authorised mass not exceeding 3 500 kg. Then comes the whole technical explanation for which I would like to refer to the written version of the question I have tabled. Apparently, there is a difference in interpretation between Belgium and the neighbouring countries. Mr President, what is the reason for the derogation we apply to the other countries? How can the practice in our country be brought into line with that in neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u150	My dear colleague, according to the European Directive 2006/16, the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences includes the category B+E: assembly of vehicles consisting of a towing vehicle of category B and a trailer or semi-trailers with a maximum authorised mass of 3 500 kg or less. In the Netherlands, however, the category B+E has a different meaning. There, a B+E driving licence may be used to drive an assembly of a category B towing vehicle and a trailer/shifter whose maximum permissible mass is more than 3 500 kg, provided that part of the mass of the trailer/shifter is transferred to the towing vehicle via the coupling. France declares that it applies a scheme similar to that in the Netherlands. Germany, on the other hand, applies the same scheme as Belgium. The fact that the Netherlands interprets European legislation differently than Belgium may cause problems. Dutch drivers of B/E assemblies whose trailer/wheeler has a maximum authorised mass of more than 3 500 kg are in breach in Belgium. That is why my services have asked the European Commission what is the right interpretation. The Commission subsequently stated that the maximum single mass of the trailer/lifter in a B/E assembly should never exceed 3 500 kg. It added that an assembly of a towing vehicle B and a trailer/trailer with a maximum authorised mass exceeding 3 500 kg requires a driving licence C 1E. Finally, it clarified that the Directive allows the transfer of mass over the coupling in accordance with the type-approval rules, but that an interpretation in which the maximum permissible mass of the trailer/lifter exceeds 3 500 kg is contrary to the Directive. This shows that Belgian legislation is in line with the European directive and that it is not possible to implement the Dutch interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u151	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply, which I will read. After all, it's very technical. I understand, of course, that the European Commission has resolved the confusion, that our rules are in line with what the European Commission sees and that the Netherlands and France must comply with that interpretation. I asked this question because our country is a hub in logistics. It simply passes from one country to another and there must therefore be clarity as to which driving licence one has at the time and it must be in line with both France, the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u152	Again, this is a rather technical question. I have come into contact with people who inspire me on a technical level and of course there are a lot of questions coming up. Article 32a of the road code regulates the dimensions and masses of vehicles. The maximum permitted mass for composite vehicles on 6 axles is fixed in our country at 44 tonnes, whereas in the Netherlands it is fixed at 50 tonnes. This is once again a difference between the Netherlands and Belgium. Can you align the limitation with that of the Netherlands? Maybe you can't? Then how will you solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u153	Since 1 July 2014, with the sixth state reform, the regions have been responsible for determining the mass trailers of the vehicles. Your question must therefore be addressed to my regional fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u154	Minister, if this continues, you will soon have no powers in this house. That's not so bad. I will have to convince my party at the next election to put me on a different list, although I find the house here much more fascinating than the Flemish Parliament. I will therefore forward the question to our Flemish colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u155	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Calomne and Mr No 23139 Mrs Lalieux's 23363 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u156	Minister, the Belgian Railway Company announced that it had transported 230 million passengers in 2017, an increase of 3% in rail activity compared to 2016, the best growth of the year. However, questions were raised about the probity of this increase, in particular because of confusion between domestic and transnational traffic. Nevertheless, it is undeniable that rail traffic has been constantly growing in recent years, even though there is dissatisfaction among users with the concerns of punctuality. Mr. Minister, we are pleased to see the increase in public demand for public transport because, on the one hand, it enables us to ensure our objectives related to climate issues related to CO2 emissions reduction and, on the other hand, it demonstrates overall citizen satisfaction with the public services of the State. Minister, how do you analyze this increase in SNCB attendance? How is it divided between domestic and transnational traffic? For what types of use has rail traffic been particularly favoured during this year 2017 (work, schooling, home, leisure)? What has been the economic impact of this increase in attendance in terms of budget and job creation? In the face of this growing demand, how will SNCB adapt? What are the projects, plans, and future strategy you are thinking about to further modernize its offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u157	In 2017, SNCB transported 230 million passengers. This is more than 3% more than in 2016. This is the largest increase in the number of domestic travellers in ten years. This increase concerns not only the number of commuters, but also the number of passengers taking the train for their day or weekend leisure. In the face of more and more traffic jams, the train is a real alternative to the car for commuters. The increase in the number of passengers for leisure trips, who choose to travel without stress and in a comfortable way, also allows trains to be filled more during off-peak hours. The increase in train travel is distributed as follows: more than 8 per cent for young people; more than 9 per cent for families; more than 6 per cent for seniors; more than 2 per cent for home-to-work travel; and more than 1.4 per cent for home-to-school travel. With the new 2017-2020 transport plan, which came into effect on December 10, the SNCB intends to respond to this strong growth in passenger numbers. In order to continue to attract new customers, the supply of trains has been increased by 5.1% compared to the previous transport plan. This increase is mainly concentrated on suburban areas, on the supply of weekends but also in rural areas, since the number of trains on some rural lines has doubled. On Saturdays, SNCB sets up more trains to shopping towns, and on Sundays, additional trains are set up for students. To the extent possible, travel times have been reduced by an average of 3% of the 100 most important connections. Recruitment needs are reviewed annually on the basis of updated parameters. In order to be able to cope with the new transportation plan of December 2017, we had to recruit drivers and attendants, i.e. operational staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u158	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u159	Minister, I would like to ask you about stopping the sale of tickets for international trips to seven stations in Wallonia and Brussels – for the Walloon Brabant, Louvain-la-Neuve and Braine-l'Alleud. SNCB management warned the unions of this decision a few days ago. The unions speak of a unilateral decision of the SNCB, denounce a further reduction in the services offered to travellers and fear that this decision will be the prelude to a pure and simple closure of the windows in small and medium-sized stations. Although the purchase of tickets is increasingly being made via the Internet – admit it – many people will be affected, especially the elderly, by such a decision. Minister, can you give me the reasons for the removal of this service? Is it motivated by a concern for economy? If that is the case, can you give me an estimate of the economy that will thus be generated? Can you also tell me on what criteria the choice of stations at which the sale of international tickets will end has been based?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u160	Minister, my question is with Mr Crusnière. On 19 January, the management of SNCB announced to the unions its unilateral decision to abolish the sale of several types of international tickets in seven stations, which I will not mention again. It will no longer be possible to buy TGV, Thalys, ICE, Eurostar and Interrail tickets. How many such tickets were sold in total at these stations last year? What was the need to remove this sale? Does this measure represent an economy? If so, how much? Does this decrease in service form part of a plan to close the relevant counters, as the unions suspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, let me first clarify two points. Firstly, these are not seven stations located in Wallonia and Brussels, but seven stations throughout the country. Secondly, there is no question of suspending the sale of international tickets, but of limiting the range of international products on sale at these stations. SNCB assures me that a significant part of the current international supply, namely the sale of traditional products for short-distance cross-border relations, will always be possible via these stations. The only exception concerns the station of Braine-l'Alleud, where the sale of international tickets will be effectively and completely stopped. It's the only station. All others keep the sale of international tickets. We are therefore talking about the sale of Thalys, Eurostar, TGV, ICE and Interrail tickets. SNCB informs me that, in recent years, when it comes to the purchase of international tickets, travellers are increasingly using the Internet, even more so than in the sale of national tickets. In this regard, the international rail sector follows the same trend as the air sector, for example. In the meantime, the sale at the railway stations represents only 20% of the total sales of international transport tickets. If a comparison is made with neighbouring countries, it is to be expected that these figures will continue to decline in the coming years. This is therefore a general societal trend observed in all sectors and for all products and services. This trend leads to a situation where the sale of certain international products is still very sporadically ensured at different stations. To be precise, at the seven stations concerned, the average daily sale of international tickets ranged from 0.9 to 3.4. Consequently, the lack of routine sales of these products resulting from low volumes and the extensive and complex international supply make it difficult for ticket agents to systematically and correctly inform travellers about all products and to sell the ad hoc product. SNCB adds that it therefore regularly receives complaints from travellers about this ticket sales service on the basis of information that was not appropriate at these low-volume stations. The volumes of these products still sold at stations do not, according to SNCB, justify the costs associated with maintaining these activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u162	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u163	Points are Braine-L'Alleud, Schuman, Gent-Dampoort, Louvain-la-Neuve, Sint-Niklaas, Tournai and Verviers-Central.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u164	Minister, here's another sign of public service disruption. Indeed, it is true that many people go through the Internet. But not everyone and this is the interest of the public service: take into account those who cannot afford to go through the Internet. I know shopkeepers who were happy to do something other than the daily train – that's the case! – and to sell international tickets. The argument that you put forward is that some shopkeepers are wrong. If ticket machines are mistaken, travellers who go through the Internet are also deceived a fortiori. But for these, it's no big deal! But if they're going to get help from the shopkeepers, then it becomes so! In addition, to remove some international notes but not others, this also goes against any logic. We're used to this disconnection and that's one more example.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u165	Mr Minister, I will be brief. The liberalization of the domestic passenger market is also included in the government agreement. In January 2017, you listed the actions previously undertaken to manage the liberalisation of the domestic passenger transport market. It is an important revolution. The coalition agreement included the ambition to make an assessment of the internal reorganisation by the end of 2017. This was stated in point 10.2.5 of the coalition agreement. That is why I have the following questions for you. What steps have SNCB and Infrabel taken towards the liberalisation of the market in the past year? What are the results of the evaluation? When will you deliver the evaluation to the committee members?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u166	Infrabel informs me that it is ready to cope with changes in the legislative framework concerning the opening up of the domestic passenger transport market and has organised all the necessary internal consultations to this end. Although it is a large market segment, with a corresponding workload, it would point out that in principle it does not matter to the infrastructure manager to whom it allocates the capacity. Infrabel adds that it already has the experience of working with different operators in a competitive environment, particularly in the liberalised market segments of freight transport and international passenger transport. As far as SNCB is concerned, it informs that its strategy is aimed at continuing to be the preferred and sole partner for our government. That is why it has set five priority objectives for the period 2017-2022: firstly, increasing security and punctuality; secondly, satisfied customers always and everywhere; thirdly, a contemporary HR policy and an entrepreneurial culture based on professionalism, respectful entrepreneurship and cooperation; fourth, efficient working methods and fifth, a financially sound company with the ambition to grow. SNCB's draft management contract for the period 2018-2022 already includes KPIs for SNCB in key areas such as punctuality, security and customer satisfaction. In addition, the multi-annual investment plan aims to give SNCB and Infrabel the means to achieve their priority objectives and meet tomorrow's challenges, focusing on the three basic activities of the companies. Firstly, safe, punctual and comfortable train traffic for passengers, with particular attention to the roll-out of the ETCS, which has a significant impact on financial needs. Secondly, the maintenance, modernisation and renewal of the rolling stock, the average age of which should be reduced and the overall capacity increased. New workshops are being completed. Motor vehicles are being modernised and new orders for rolling stock have already been launched and/or budgeted. Thirdly, a customer-friendly reception of passengers at functionally equipped stations is sought and investment is preferred which has the directest possible impact on passenger services. In parallel to the implementation of targeted investments, SNCB aims to increase its performance level with a sensitivity, including by focusing on innovative, more effective working methods and digitisation. Performance will be improved in all business areas due to the financial recovery of the company and the stabilisation or even reduction of historical debt in order to successfully prepare the European deadline of 2023. That's the core of her business plan. Through the three working instruments, the management contract, the multi-annual investment plan and business plan, SNCB intends to meet the short-term challenge. I would remind you that such controls are entirely in the hands of the board of directors before they end up on the table of the government. I think that makes sense for autonomous companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u167	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u168	This brings us to the last question for today, since the other questions are converted into written questions or postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u169	Minister, I have already asked questions about the neutrality of the airport ombudsman. Again, he's in trouble. On Twitter, he takes a clear stand against certain action committees. The Ombudsman may, of course, have a personal opinion, but it is appropriate to keep it to himself. The fact that he takes a stand for or against certain positions undermines his credibility as a neutral actor. He can therefore no longer perform his mediation role properly since he has lost the trust of many stakeholders. Because I receive a lot of emails about this, I have the following questions for you. Do you think it is appropriate for the airport Ombudsman to speak for or against statements from action committees? How are you going to guarantee the neutrality of the ombud service? Can the Ombudsman stay on for you? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 of the Law of 15 March 2002 states that "This service operates independently, in particular in relation to the services of the Air Administration." The same royal decree also provides that this service must carry out its mission in complete independence. Therefore, the following provision is also included in the Royal Decree: "The staff of this service shall not be members, members of, or any link with companies, bodies, organisations and institutions operating or controlling an airport, nor be part of a neighbourhood residents' interest group or in defence of the environment'. The department concerned shall be under the authority of the Chairman of the FPS Mobility and Transport. I would like to add that the person mentioned is only part of a service which includes, among other things, a Dutch-speaking Ombudsman. For me, the point of view of the service is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic809x.u171	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I checked the tweets and compared them to the theories of one of the action groups. It is clear that there is a direct communication channel between the two groups. The Ombudsman also picks up routes from the time of Minister Durant, who wanted to concentrate all the nuisances over the Brussels Noordrand and the Leuven Noord region. It can't be for us. The Federal Ombudsman, his service and his French-speaking or Dutch-speaking colleagues should not be subjective. They must no longer seek out politics, they must seek solutions in the interests of all residents and economically important airports. I have also been told that in the past the ombudsmen have passed on private addresses of complainants to opposing lawyers. I will continue to ask you questions about this, because the Ombudsman is paid with public funds. At the moment he doesn't share with the sensitive file of the airport, the use of the runway and the escape routes.
