ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u2	The meeting is reprise. The discussion is resumed. I call Mr Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to comment on the role of one or the other in the committee this evening. Not because I wouldn't think that was important, nor because I didn't get annoyed occasionally, but because I want to focus today on the essence, on the questions that matter. The most important question is, was and remains: was the law on the amicable settlement adopted in 2011 with the aim of resolving the legal problems of Mr Chodiev in Belgium? That is the essential question and the reason why this committee was set up. What's the answer to that question? There must be a simple, clear answer to a question which has concerned us. We have worked many hours and days for 16 months, and we have considered this question. We've heard hundreds of people. It is clear to me, personally, on the basis of all those testimonies, that the answer to that question is no. This law has not been passed for Mr Chodiev and his colleagues. In fact, I listened carefully to the colleagues from the Socialist Group. They are still in the coffee room for a while, and they have been allowed to do so. I have listened carefully to Mr Massin's speech, which has been annoyed by many things. I'll come back to those annoyances later. Nor did he give a positive answer to that essential question. He too has answered that question with many detours, as some people can do well in this House. The law on the extended friendly settlement is not a Kazakh law. It is a typical Belgian compromise law, in which classic center-right went for the extended friendly settlement, where classic center-left went for the containment of banking secrecy, and CD&V, as always, went for both. That is what we have to admit. It sounds simple, but it is. If the law was not intended to solve Mr Chodiev's legal problems, the question is: what was the purpose of that law? The legislative text, which was adopted in spring 2011, is a text corresponding to the 2009 text. In 2009, that text was submitted by the then Minister of Justice, Jo Vandeurzen. The question is who benefited from this legislation in 2009? If we look at everything, I believe that one person is taking the lead, and that is Mr Yves Liégeois, the Attorney General of Antwerp. Firstly, he presents the extended friendly settlement as an idea in the discussion of the Franchimont Act in Parliament in 2006. Secondly, in an interview in the Gazette of Antwerp in August 2007, he says: "The friendly settlement needs to be greatly expanded and can be imposed at any stage of the criminal proceedings." So much for a quote from a magistrate, not just a magistrate, in a folk newspaper. Thirdly, he and his people from the public prosecutor-general of Antwerp are throwing on the table the extended friendly settlement as a proposal during the discussion with the diamond sector. From this consultation he himself says that it came at the Minister's request. The diamond industry is all too happy to respond to this proposal because it is in favour of this change in the law itself. The same parquet-general of Antwerp then asked Mr Liégeois to work in the opposite direction and to promote the counter-proposal of the magistrates to the politicians. Fourthly, it is his cabinet employee, who was responsible for this dossier, who served under Mr Liégeois. After her term of office, she worked there again, but as an Advocate General. Four times we find Mr Liégeois's fingerprints on that law. If you are looking for a footprint in the legislation, the famous lobby section................................................................................................................................................................................................ Colleagues, does this mean that the diamond sector had no part in this legislation at all? Well, I have a nuanced judgment on that. In 2007, the diamond sector supported two legislative initiatives. One was the legislative proposal on the seizure of corporate property that ultimately failed. The second was the extended friendly settlement. One even had a bill on seizure, written by the lawyer and signing by most political parties, except the Parti Socialiste. That has never become law because Mr Liégeois and others oppose it. The other bill on the extended friendly settlement was passed because it had the approval of Mr Liégeois. The final text was even approved by the College of Attorneys General and it would have become law in 2009, here in Parliament, were it not that only the PS in the government was against at that time. So who wrote this law, who had an interest in this legislation? It is a law with many fathers: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Minister of Justice and the diamond sector. For me, however, Mr Liégeois's influence is the most serious. By the way, is Mr Liégeois' statement on Jo Vandeurzen, the then Minister of Justice, not significant in the Canvas report on the Fortis case? In that, he literally said, "Vandoorzen" -- he just didn't say Jo "is the best minister of justice we've ever had." Of course, the Minister did what Mr Liégeois asked. Colleagues, in a country where we propagate the separation of powers, the question arises as to whether it is up to the judiciary to write the law of this country. We often talk about the legislative power and the judiciary, and about the fact that the legislative power promises certain things to the judiciary. Remember the incidents of the last few months or the statements of certain politicians about foreign judges. However, this is of a different order. Is it for the judiciary to write custom-made legislation? That is the question that arises, and unfortunately I have heard far too little debate about it, let alone an answer to it. The influence of Mr Liégeois is clear, but why then succeed in 2011 which failed in 2009? There was of course the resistance of the Parti Socialiste in 2009, we know that. In 2011, however, it succeeded. Why was that famous extended friendly settlement linked by the cabinet to the banking secret file? Indeed, the question for the extended friendly settlement was literally in the CD&V election programme. I quoted it during the findings. I do not like to quote other electoral programmes, because I do not think that is so neat, but at least it was not in the MR election programme. The question is, how did that link get there? It is also my conclusion that this link has been a typical Belgian political link. Two things are important to understand that link. First of all, Minister Reynders I know him very well, because I have been in the government with him for a long time and I have done everything in those years to make the restriction of banking secrecy as minimal as possible. Everyone knows that, by the way. That's no one's secret in this house. Secondly, after the fall of the government in April 2010, I also remember that, of course, we found ourselves in a long period of ongoing cases, where there was a fear of all kinds of alternative political majorities. When the international pressure to restrict our banking secrecy became too great, Minister Reynders included a minimum restriction on banking secrecy in a bill containing various provisions. Within the then majority in current cases, the position of the PS was immediately clear: this restriction did not go far enough. Despite this disagreement, the government decided not to hold the discussion until January 2011. Then something happened. The assumption I make is that a political consideration is at the root of the famous link. Everyone knows Didier Reynders as a clever politician, a strategist. He asked himself what position CD&V would take in the discussion about banking secrecy: would CD&V side with the liberals and settle for a limited restriction of banking secrecy or would CD&V side with the PS and ask for a more fundamental restriction of banking secrecy? If CD&V were to side with the Parti Socialiste, Minister Reynders would lose control of the file, as we were in ongoing cases and alternative majorities were possible. CD&V could then form an alternative majority with other left-wing parties. In the event that CD&V requested a more fundamental restriction of banking secrecy, Reynders had to ensure that CD&V continued to involve the liberals in the conversations. And wasn't there a file somewhere that was CD&V-like from 2009, that was in the fridge because it was then blocked in the government? Well, at the time when CD&V first declared itself in January 2011 for a more fundamental restriction of banking secrecy, the Reynders cabinet immediately put the extended friendly settlement on the table. Reynders' strategy is working. The PS is isolated within the government and CD&V continues to involve the liberals in the political negotiations on banking secrecy, in order to settle both banking secrecy and the friendly settlement. In conclusion, the drafting of this legislation was a typical Belgian compromise, in all senses of the word, with links, left, right and compromise. In no way has it been proven that the Chodiev case has had an impact on this. Some have said that there were contacts through Chodiev and De Decker with Reynders. We have not found any trace of that. Whoever claims otherwise has to prove it here. Besides, I haven't heard anything else from the PS colleagues either. I've heard annoyances about France, and I'll come back to that later. I have also heard annoyances about the diamond sector, about which I have not said anything. I have heard some annoyances about the lack of transparency, as I have already said, but about Chodiev and the fact that that legislation was intended to save Chodiev, I have not heard any evidence of that. Now the question arises as to what was the role of France and of that law team throughout that case. The Kazachgate case came up for the first time in France in 2012. The reason for this was internal leaked documents from the Élysée. These documents gave a rather hallucinatory story, in particular that the Kazakh government asked France in 2009 to solve the legal problems of the Kazakh trio in Belgium. If France succeeded, this would have a positive effect on trade relations between the two countries, in particular on the sale of helicopters. The Élysée sought and found a lawyer in Brussels, Mrs Catherine Degoul. She gathered a team of lawyers around her, including a Belgian lawyer, Senator Armand De Decker. Once again, according to the leaked documents of the Élysée, Degoul and De Decker ensure that the law on the extended friendly settlement is adopted in March 2011. That law will then be applied for the first time to the Chodiev case in June 2011. The problems have been solved and the contract for the helicopters is signed immediately. That's the story we read in internal documents from the Élysée. The question is whether those documents are correct. Are they truthful? Do they match reality? At least it was a very strong story, to enjoy even. But what is true and what isn't? The author of the documents is a strange man, but I will come back to that later. I have just shown that the law was not written and voted for Chodiev. The question then remains which elements of these internal notes are truthful. It is clear that the testimony in our committee of the Head of the Cabinet of the Élysée, Mr Guéant, was astonishing. I found that the most interesting testimony in the long period we've spent together. He has confirmed a number of elements in the notes. He said that France had indeed received the message from Kazakhstan in 2009 that resolving the problems of Chodiev would have a positive effect on trade relations. He has said so in so many words. He didn't say they ordered helicopters, but at least this would have a good effect. He also reported that there was a figure, whom I call shadowy, namely Jean-François Etienne des Rosaies, who sought a lawyer who could also plead in Brussels, especially Mrs Catherine Degoul. She's got a law team gathered around her. But for Gueant, the story stopped there. How the lawyers solved the problem was of less importance to him. As long as the problem was solved. He said the lawyers did their job well and that the trial was well arranged with a friendly settlement. The legal problems were out of the question. What are we supposed to get out of this? From the Élysée, by the mouth of a head of the cabinet, a non-important man who is involved in many cases in France, there is interference in an ongoing judicial investigation. France, a friendly nation, is meddling in a Belgian ongoing judicial investigation. That is unacceptable, I admit. I would therefore like to repeat the words I used during the sitting with regard to Mr Guéant, namely that I would be ashamed in his place. The question is what to do with this now. Some colleagues will say that we must protest against France. Others say that we must break up our relations with France, that we must call our ambassador back. The question is what to do with that. The point is that today's protagonists no longer play a role. Should we ask the Prime Minister of our country today to cloud relations with France, where in the meantime a new President has taken office? I don't know if that's worth it. That is why I took a moment to consider the opposition's proposal in this direction, but I did not approve it in the end. That has nothing to do with the majority's carwatts. Everyone who knows me knows I'm a free politician and I say my mind. However, I think that the facts have happened too long ago to bring them up again. I repeat: a public condemnation of the behaviour of those who were incited to do so in France is more than appropriate. In that sense, therefore, I fully share the annoyance expressed by Mr Massin here on the floor. The final question is what the real impact of that French law team has on that case. Has it indeed had an impact on the law, on its creation and implementation? Have these lawyers been able to serve Mr. Chodiev? More specifically, there is the following question: what has been the impact of the strange duck in the bite, namely Mr De Decker, on that attorney team? The facts are the facts. Those lawyers have received millions of euros in honor. I think it is a question of amounts which were disproportionate to their actual performance. Of course, that applies all the more to Armand De Decker, whose name appears once in the legal file, and that for EUR 740 000! Once he acts in the legal file. What did he do? Mr De Decker has abused his title as a senator to use so-called influence, but with very little result. At the same time, he used the title of lawyer to make big money, with a lot of results. That, I believe, is the essence of Kazachgate. That's what this is about. I am convinced that, if the court case is closed, this will also be the judgment of the court. Again, I have every respect for the court and I shouldn't interfere with that. Moreover, in addition to these two findings, the abuse of the title of lawyer and the abuse of the title of senator, there have of course been demarches that bear witness to a complete frivolity. Mr President, a top politician who holds the title of Minister of State and who goes home to a Minister of Justice to intervene in an internal judicial case; a top politician, a Minister of State, who travels to France, to Paris, with internal documents of the Belgian Security of the State, with personal contacts with the then Head of State Security, who tracks a mobile phone, who talks about attacking some charlatan known to the State's Security: that is hallucinating. It is a sign of frivolity that a politician like him deals with his task in this way. Then, ladies and gentlemen, there was Mr De Decker's testimony with us on the committee. A lot of people have been looking forward to that. He decided, however, to invoke his right to remain silent, but not without other political parties, other politicians, first by slandering the mud, without the possibility of a reply. Abuse the right of silence to lecture everyone. I am confident that the ongoing judicial investigation will provide the necessary clarity. Colleagues, Mr President, before I conclude, I would like to thank a number of people. The people of the secretariat, Catharina and Karin. Our associates, who have done the majority of the work, let's be honest. Whoever followed it all knows that. The employees were good to very good on both sides, by majority and opposition; both sides of the aisle, they say in the United States. I would also like to thank the experts who have held out, because not everyone has done the full ride. I would also, of course, like to thank Mr Delpérée for the injustice that has been done to him, particularly by myself. I would also like to thank the chairman, who, despite all his hard work, has done his job in hard work and many committee meetings. That's good, apart from all the reviews I won't make today. I would also, of course, like to thank all the colleagues who have often worked in difficult circumstances and with very little press coverage, let us name the reality as it is. This proves that Parliament can also work in the lurch. I decide. I think there are four important answers to the four important questions. Firstly, the link in 2011 is a purely Belgian compromise, in which the Chodiev case did not play a significant role. Secondly, the law on the extended friendly settlement has many fathers, but it is clear that the parquet general and, to a lesser extent, the diamond sector have found each other, in a little transparent way, which is obviously unacceptable. Thirdly, the intervention of France and the French State in an ongoing Belgian judicial investigation is inappropriate and unacceptable. Fourthly, Armand De Decker has abused his titles to enrich himself. These are the four conclusions that are as clear to me as pumping water. Finally, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question which transcends the committee. In physics, it's called a metaquestion. Has it been worth all that? I am thinking of the many hundreds or thousands of hours in which we have summoned Parliament and democracy, paid people, translated and printed thick books. Has it been worth all that? Let me say that, except for those for whom the conclusions had already been drawn in advance, it is clear that this committee did not produce what some had hoped. I'm being careful about expressing myself. Colleagues, there were political machinations and political conspiracies. There was even an affair d'état, a state case. It would be a state matter. In retrospect, we have to note that these terms were clearly exceeded. We all, the majority and the opposition, in the delusion of the day, decided too quickly to set up a committee of inquiry. I would therefore like to end by calling for lessons to be learned from this and not to use the instrument of a committee of inquiry lightly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u4	Mr Gilkinet has the floor. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u5	We have a tradition of giving the President the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u6	Yes, Mr. Clarinval! Yes, Mr. Van Quickenborne! We are faced with a matter of state in an obvious way! It's not, Mr. Clarinval, a De Decker case you're trying to narrow down on. Yes, Mr Van Quickenborne, although it was particularly difficult and difficult for us, the Members of Parliament, for our staff, for the services, this case deserved the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Just imagine the opposite situation. Belgium, which, as other colleagues have said, is interested in a judicial case under way in another country and which requires, in order to be resolved, the amendment of a law and the extremely rapid application of the same law for economic and commercial purposes. We would be pointed with a finger and quite rightly! Why would we not dare to identify the responsibilities in this matter and say the things as they should be said? If the facts established by our committee, particularly after Mr Guéant's visit, do not disparage you, I must say that as far as our Ecolo-Groen Group is concerned, yes, we believe that a democracy cannot function in this way and that when a mistake or political error is committed, it must be identified by a committee of inquiry and the necessary conclusions drawn from it. This is the only motivation for our commitment to this very long-standing issue. It all started for me in this case on 2 March 2011, when amendments from nowhere were presented to us in the Finance Committee, while we were analysing a law containing various provisions. History is known. The report was prepared by colleagues. On the one hand, there were provisions which we were particularly demanding, as environmentalists and for a long time: a lifting of bank secrecy in the long run, with, I said, interrupting Mr Clarinval earlier, a bonus which was the Central Register of Accounts, that is, an ease for tax services, in case of suspicion of fraud, to question a central point of contact to ascertain the identity of the holders of the accounts identified. We rejoiced. We voted on the amended articles. On the other hand, there were also, and above all, provisions providing for the possibility of an amicable transaction in criminal matters. We immediately challenged this second aspect of the agreement within the majority of the time. The amendment was not presented to the right committee. We were in the Finance Committee and not in the Justice Committee. We were in day-to-day business and these are not – Mr Delperée will not contradict me – the time to legislate on such essential matters. There was no opinion of the Council of State. Above all, on the merits, this provision would, in our view, lead to class justice – a view shared by many jurists and magistrates. I would like to quote the judge and professor of law, Damien Vandermeersch, on this subject, in an unsuspecting period since the elements of this case were not known: "I denounced a two-speed justice. You know, when you're a judicial actor, you're confronted with people and behind every case, there are human beings and, in criminal matters, a lot of human beings who are suffering. So what actually makes me uncomfortable is a new law that dates back two years and provides that the criminal transaction can even be concluded when the judge is already in charge of the case. Before that, one could eventually make a criminal transaction before the judge was seized, but from now on, even when the judge is going to judge the case, it can be bypassed. It bothers me that it passes behind the judge's back and without his control. It's a lack of transparency. Of course, one understands the value of obtaining a criminal transaction. You don't have a public trial, you don't have any trouble, you don't have a criminal record. So, indeed, it is a very favourable regime. But it seems that it is mainly the rich who will be able to benefit from it. The one who has no money, it is not an opportunity that will be offered to him." This is a way of apprehending Kazakhgate, a legislation adopted in a hasty manner, in circumstances that did not allow it and fundamentally changes the way in which justice is done in our country. Despite our protests, the law was passed, not without a complex detour by the Senate, not without the passage, at the same time, of a restorative law since there were two problems in this text. Environmentalists including Zakia Khatttabi, a senator at the time, highlighted the possibility of a criminal transaction when there were incidents of violence against people, including domestic violence, which was ethically unacceptable. On the other hand, a small technical error did not allow for a criminal transaction when the acts committed could result in a prison sentence. This last point may seem trivial, but the lawyer and lobbyist, Mr.Verstraeten, pointed out before the Senate that there was a discrepancy between the statement of reasons and the operative part, and that it had to be corrected. It was obviously not annoyance when you know the interests that it represents and still represents. My second meeting with the Kazakhgate took place in October 2012, when an article was published in the French satirical newspaper, generally well informed, Le Canard enchainé, which describes the facts in a somewhat romantic way. This is a four-page note from a prefect, Jean-François Etienne des Rosaies, who presents the file. On 12 October 2012, here, I ask the Prime Minister in office, Mr Di Rupo: "I have before me a note from the Prefect Etienne des Rosaies, dated 28 June 2011, addressed to the French Minister of the Interior of the time. Is this document authentic, Prime Minister? Does its content correspond to reality? I don't know. We have a duty as a parliamentary authority, and it is also your duty, in your capacity as Prime Minister, to provide full clarity." And of course this conviction remains present. The note is romancée; it contains details "à la marseillaise". We know the French facade. We find it published by the press in an earlier, more succinct form, which goes a little more to the point. I'll read it because it's the spinal column of Kazakhgate. This is an email sent by the same Jean-François Etienne des Rosaies to the secretariat of the French Minister of the Interior, Mr Guéant at the time, formerly secretary general of the Élysée, dated Sunday, June 19, 2011, 8:26 p.m. and 13 seconds. It is a document published by the press, I do not know how from the judicial file, seized with the courier operator of Mr des Rosaies, difficult to falsify a posteriori. He said: "Mr Minister – Mr Guéant – confirmed our meeting today, 7:45 p.m., for information from the PR – President of the Republic – Friday, 17 June, at 5:30 p.m., the Belgian Minister of Justice – it is not him but a magistrate – cancelled the three counts of indictment, money laundering, criminal association, forgery in writing, against the businessman of Kazakhstan Patokh Chodiev, personal and financial friend of President Nazarbayev, who had asked the President of the Republic two years ago to find political support in Belgium for his friend and his associates, Messrs. Machkevitch et Ibraguimov. So I've been following this case for 17 months for Damien Loras – a diplomat attached to the Élysée – by setting up a working group in Belgium led by Catherine Degoul – the lawyer – by soliciting my parent, the Minister of State Armand De Decker."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u8	Okay, Mr. Clarinval, there was no relationship between Mr. des Rosaies and Mr. De Decker, the Minister of State. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u9	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u10	No, it's a second mistake, Mr. Clarinval. There are small mistakes. I don't disagree. I stressed that. Ninety percent of this document, I should say, are correct. While elements are incorrect, they do not invalidate the document. It is "the straw or the beam", as my colleague, Mr Massin, has decided to say, who will miss us if he resigns. I'm not being distracted. I continue: "To resolve this matter, a bill was passed a month ago – a third mistake, a little more than a month ago – organized and provoked by Armand De Decker, who raised awareness of three ministers: Justice, Finance and Foreign Affairs (elements to be drawn up, in yellow on my document). This epilogue also sees the restoration of the financial solvency of Mr Chodiev's group then listed on the London Stock Exchange and Hong Kong". It seems to me that this element is established. "He also owns the only helicopter maintenance and repair plant in Central Asia, known as B404. On the eve of the Salon du Bourget, Mr Chodiev has a huge debt – I weigh my words – towards France. I can ask for it but by putting forward General Puga" – which you may have seen in the excellent Cash Investigation program on the same subject – "for support in favour of Eurocopter who wants to invest the Russian market: 45 combat helicopters. Patokh Chodiev is both intimate with Metvedev and Putin" I did not check. Finally, he gives the telephone numbers of Armand De Decker, his line fixed in the Senate, specifying in brackets for the cell phone "today Sunday". He ended with: "Really, Jean-François Etienne des Rosaies". If such a document does not prompt you to try to find the truth in this matter, to set up a committee of inquiry, to ask questions before that, as I have done, I, as a representative of the citizens, cannot let an element like this pass through. The document does state that the sovereignty of the Belgian State has been challenged by French interference and that the separation of powers has not been respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u11	Mr President, I should like Mr Gilkinet to remind us of the number of errors in this note. Mr Gilkinet, how many errors have you noted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u12	Four or five. There's a little more in the long version.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u13	There may be more!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u14	Yes. In terms of details, Mr. Clarinval. Mr. Clarinval, I know your strategy. I have heard you try to criticize the four-page note, which does indeed contain somewhat more romantic elements of the file. Mr Guéant, who was received by our committee - it was the point of inflection of our committee of inquiry which alone justified the establishment of that committee - confirmed to us the existence of Mr Jean-François Etienne des Rosaies. He's not a fictional character. He confirmed that this gentleman had an office at the Elysée. I don't know if you know a lot of people who have an office there. He confirmed that he was part of this team. In fact, this letter was, in its outline, on the essential - you point out details that are false, which I intellectually agree with - confirmed by Mr Claude Guéant, former Secretary General of the Élysée, former Minister of the Interior of Mr Sarkozy. Mr. Guéant told us that this was all of an unnamed banality. Perhaps for him, Sarkozy's suitcase carrier when it was necessary to go to Libya to get the money needed to finance his campaign. But not for me, not for us, Mr. Clarinval. At the time, I said that it was not a nameless banality, but a nameless gravity. I said it in the report. If we accept, as representatives of our fellow citizens in this Parliament, this type of action worthy of that which we could undertake from Paris to the DOM-TOMs or to any distant department, we accept everything, we totally lack pride, respect for the autonomy of the State that Belgium has been in for a few decades now and a little more. That is why we have long argued for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to verify the elements. I claim to have started the committee of inquiry with a thesis, which I had made very clear. We had to check it out. I have understood better, for example, in the course of the commission's work, which led to the text of the law: the Antwerp diamondmakers and Minister Vandeurzen, who had asked, in a somewhat surprising way, for a working group to be set up. You can imagine: a Belgian citizen has problems in court, in this case linked to information given by a whistleblower (the HSBC bank files). Heavy sanctions are foreseen. Justice is slow. This undermines the business of this sector and the Minister of Justice says: "Go negotiate with the magistrates. We'll see what kind of law we could pass to get you out of your legal problems." This is the related Kazakhgate scandal. Of course, I will not deny it, I was shocked by this part of the file, the elements of which have been better known to me. But in order to verify the elements contained in this authentic document, it was indeed necessary to set up a commission of inquiry, to try to understand, to draw political conclusions in the form of assessments and, if possible, reforms that would enable such facts to be avoided in the future. I do not want to bequeath to my children a Belgium which is trampled on by a neighbouring State which does not respect the principle of the autonomy of a parliament, its sovereignty, the independence of justice. Thank you to Mr. Maingain. We must pay tribute to him. He could not have been very present in the committee of inquiry, but he was the first to have tabled a text proposing the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Thank you to the colleagues who have supported this principle in this House. Thank you to the staff of the Chamber, of course, Mrs Offeciers and Mrs Huybens, who suffered with a difficult commission of inquiry; to the translation services, and all the others. Thanks to the parliamentary collaborators, particularly mine, in the dossier, but also to those of my colleagues who have done a real job trying to write a full and quality report for long hours. Indeed, I cannot stop, Mr Clarinval, the fact that some have put more energy to prevent the truth from emerging than to search for it. I use the rostrum of Parliament to tell you what I have to say to you, Mr Clarinval. Unlike other committees of inquiry, I am thinking of the Publifin committee in the Walloon Parliament, the Samusocial committee in the Brussels Parliament, the Rwanda committee the day before yesterday, the very recent and very well chaired Terrorism committee by Mr Dewael, the logic of majority has always been present in this committee and has finally taken over. Mr Clarinval, at the end of the committee, we have witnessed an attempt to clear up a disturbing truth, with the result of a report which contains interesting elements, a report which I defend and which is not up to the expectations of a citizen of Parliament in view of the seriousness of the facts observed and which do not stand up to objective analysis. The majority rejected important findings, notably from journalistic surveys, as if they had no value. Sometimes journalists are wrong, but sometimes they have particularly convincing evidence in their possession. She tried to find ex post facto plausible explanations for facts that were difficult to explain. It refused to see any evidence and finally adopted conclusions that do not match the seriousness of the facts we have observed in those 16 months. Such weak words for such serious facts are truly unworthy of our democracy. This is a missed opportunity, a lack of political vision. That is why we have refused to vote in favour of this report, despite all the long and tedious work we have done for sixteen months. All the somewhat disturbing findings, all the criticisms against political agents or against the judicial system, all the recommendations a little innovative, all were rejected by the majority without any debate, in camera, simply by force of number, Mr Clarinval. It's not a lie, it's a fact. Some of whom you, Mr. Clarinval, confuse a difference of opinion with a lie. Mr Clarinval, I think you do not make a good distinction between things that are wrong and things that you do not agree with. If, every time we disagree with this government, we lie, then we often lie. Mr Clarinval, it is a form of right-wing Stalinism that you expressed this morning in La Libre Belgique. We're here... Mr President, I think Mr Clarinval wants to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u15	Mr Clarinval has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u16	Mr Giliknet, can you quote from me the people you would have wished to audition and who could not? Can you quote the documents that you requested and that we were unable to provide you with? Can you tell us what debates have been held for a year and a half? I will tell you that this morning, in the press, we have indeed denounced ten lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u17	You hesitated about the number...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u18	Lies or untruths?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u19	When you say falsehoods on a voluntary basis, it's called lying. And we've seen ten, when we could have picked up a lot more. We stopped at ten and it was already not bad, because for a year and a half you implemented a theory – you even recognized it – and you extracted elements that were fcurrently demonstrated by persisting in asserting that it was your truth when it was not the true one. Mr Gilkinet, it's called lying. You call me a right-wing Stalinist. No, I'm just in line with the facts that have been proven. The ten things I've raised are lies that you've really advanced. Perhaps you have evolved over time and would not say the same thing today, but at the time, you clearly spread them in the press and you had only one goal: dirty the MR, dirty Didier Reynders. It was your only and only goal, it's really regrettable! I honestly find that we have not done any useful work. You applied a conspiracy theory from the beginning. With our colleague, Gilles Foret, we laugh because we know that you are preparing a book, in which you will deliver your truth. If I'm a right-wing Stalinist, you're the new Vincent Decroly from Ecolo!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u20	Mr. Clarinval, my only objective is to bring out a truth that bothers you and that you are trying to prevent it from emerging. When you are upset by the message, you obviously aim at the messenger. It's an old strategy. Since I am a positive and concrete boy, I will try to point out the most important lessons of this report, within the limits of the means of a committee of inquiry and the cooperation that both have agreed to provide. Mr Clarinval, we need to work on your theory of the laundering of certain actors in the case. When Mr. De Decker refuses to speak in front of our committee of inquiry and to answer our questions, when Mr Chodiev is being asked to answer our invitation but refuses to answer our questions, when key and central actors in the case – you must acknowledge this –, like Mrs Degoul, the lawyer, Mr des Rosaies, the famous press, Mr Loras, the diplomat, Mr Aymeri de Montesquiou, the senator charged in France in the case, refuse to appear before our committee of inquiry, it is their right, since they are foreign citizens, but you cannot claim that we have, as a commission of inquiry, an exhaustive view of the facts that we are trying to analyse and establish. Similarly, - it is logical and very well from a legal point of view given the principle of separation of powers - we have not had access to the judicial file, nor the ability to have information from French magistrates. It is therefore impossible to draw definitive conclusions in one direction or the other. I agree. But you cannot draw such conclusions. This report is part of a puzzle. Perhaps one day the puzzle will be complete and we will face all the elements of this Kazakhgate. We have made it possible, together with the committee of inquiry, to establish elements that are no longer questionable today, in particular with the arrival of Mr Guéant. We were able to verify the main facts underlying this case, namely the economic interests which prevailed there: those of France in relation to Kazakhstan, the signing of trade agreements, the intervention of France in relation to an ongoing judicial case, whose speedy resolution required the amendment of a law; the amendment of this law; its rapid application and in circumstances which you must admit unusual, abnormal, extraordinary, exceptional, suspicious. All the people in this country know and denounce the slowness of our justice. And suddenly, everything becomes urgent. It can be said that there are 23 million euros. Of course. I will tell you one thing that we agree with: I prefer the EUR 23 million in the Belgian state funds rather than in the accounts of anyone. But from there to apply swift justice, while it is of unbearable slowness on the other hand, there is really a step that has been taken. Our conviction is that there was French interference in Belgian public affairs; a breach of the separation of powers through the action of the senator at the time, still a Brussels MP – if it is not true, Mr.Clarinval – Mr.Armand De Decker. Kazakhgate is indeed a matter of state, I said. Project yourself into space, into time. Imagine that in another country! No one would accept it. The responsibility of our democracy is to say that it is unacceptable. Claude Guéant's testimony was particularly enlightening in this regard. This is a key moment in the investigation. Until the last moment, I thought he wouldn't stand in front of us. You had the exact word, Mr. Van Quickenborne, saying, "I'd be ashamed if I were you!" Mr Guéant confirmed, in broad terms, the e-mail at the origin of the case, which I have read exhaustively, that of Prefect Étienne des Rosaies to the President of the Republic on a Sunday, the day after the criminal transaction. He just, at the end of the session, and I think Mr. Van Quickenborne had given him the right signal, denied that he had any influence on the legislative process. Mr. Guéant had some freedom of speech. But still, he had been minister of an important state. Maybe he thought he'd gone too far. He just refuted any influence on the Belgian parliamentary process. It's up to everyone to believe it or not! I am rather to place myself among the sceptics, Mr Clarinval and to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. As Mr. Guéant said, this is all of an unnamed banality. Maybe for him, but not for us! What he tried to present is in the image of what France allowed itself at the international level under Sarkozy. I do not know what is currently happening with the new President of the Republic. We'll see about it in the future. Sometimes it takes a little time for the truth to emerge. That is indeed regrettable and the question can be put to Mr. Van Quickenborne: What is the right attitude to have collectively on the subject? But the recommendation proposed by Mr Delperée on this subject was swept away without debate, while until the last moment it seemed to be accepted by the majority. She named what was supposed to be French interference and proposed a diplomatic approach from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. This is not a referral from the French ambassador (who lives right next to this Parliament) to Paris. But despite everything, note that Belgium does not accept, even if the facts date from 2011! We probably should have organized the commission of inquiry earlier. I was a candidate. Marking that Belgium does not accept that a neighbouring State has been involved in its internal affairs, because not doing anything means that it is not serious! That is to say that we agree with what happened. It is really a lack of vision and courage in the majority leadership. The attitude and initiatives of Mr. De Decker, Minister of State, former Minister, former Speaker of the Senate, still a Brussels MP, are also serious and unacceptable, unworthy of his current and previous functions. He used his status and the means at his disposal to exercise it. Let's stop saying he was a lawyer! He was a lobbyist and very well paid. As Mr Massin said in the tone of mockery humour, no one in Belgium remembers seeing Mr. De Decker with a lawyer's toge pleading any case. He was way too busy! It is entirely legitimate to hold a full-time position as a minister, Speaker of the Senate or as a mere senator. As a non-cumulative ecologist, I can confirm that there is much to do. In addition, the function is properly remunerated. In this context, he has taken ethically problematic or even reprehensible initiatives - name them as you wish. To go to Paris, to go to the Élysée on our behalf, to meet the head of the French Intelligence Service to put him in contact with the Sûreté de l'État, to use the Senate fairs to contact the Minister of Justice about a private file, to go to his home and then to his cabinet, to use the corridors of the Palais de Justice in Brussels and everything we do not know, for all these facts, it is of course up to the courts to decide the judicial fate of Mr. De Decker. However, it is incomprehensible, Mr Clarinval, that the MR has still not sanctioned him, as long as the facts are established. What are you waiting for? He continues to perform important functions. He's still a Member of Parliament and a member of your party. Or I missed Mr. Chastel's last statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u21	Mr President, with regard to the facts denounced by Mr Gilkinet, we share the same indignation. We have made this clear. I repeated it just now. There is no shadow of doubt in this regard. Mr Gilkinet, do not imply anything else! However, I would like to say two things. First, six terms were withdrawn from Mr. De Decker: he is no longer a mayor of Uccle and no longer holds certain positions in various party commissions. Of course, he remains a communal councillor and is still a Brussels MP. Then you confuse the commission of inquiry with the role of a judge. We're not judges. If justice, which does its job and we trust, comes to charge Mr. De Decker for facts, the party - as it holds case law in other cases - will decide to withdraw its membership card. In the meantime, we are not judges. Recognize that the party has already sanctioned Mr. De Decker. If the court comes to charge him, he will be removed from membership. That's very clear. There is no shadow of doubt. You know that, so stop these displaced insinuations!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u22	Help me clarify things. Mr. Is De Decker still a member of the MR group of the municipal council of Uccle? Is he still a member of the MR group of the Brussels Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u23	I told you he was still a member of the party. Maybe you didn't get it right. We have noticed this during the debates. Sometimes we have to tell you ten times the same thing so that in the end you would admit that you were wrong, Mr Gilkinet. In this case, I have already said that twice today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u24	In this case, I will not admit that I am wrong. The political facts are established, in particular by this report that you voted in committee and that you are going to vote. You are of the opinion that it is not ethically acceptable that the then Deputy Speaker of the Senate, Mr.Armand De Decker, have allowed himself to request an intervention from the Minister of Justice, and that he have requested that his cell phone be found. You consider that it is not ethically acceptable that he has presented himself to the French National Intelligence Service as chairman of the Belgian parliamentary intelligence delegation. These errors can be described as policy. It seems to me that they deserve a political sanction, which you have not given. I cannot imagine any other party in this House accepting such facts without reacting more harshly than you have done so far, even if I can only speak on behalf of my party. Perhaps you could have had more hearing, and more ability to defend yourself in this case, in the name of your collective responsibilities. The question is: has the Criminal Transaction Act been adopted in particular to allow the three people we know and who have been regularly cited to escape their legal problems in Belgium? It is necessary to be naive and blind to believe that this assumption is not valid, credible or supported by a set of elements, including the time line established by the services of the House. It shows the very strong interlocking of judicial, political, legislative and diplomatic initiatives in early 2011. It can be said that it is a set of coincidences that have added up, that there was a political balance – we cannot deny it – between the lifting of bank secrecy and the criminal transaction, but why at that time, in times of current business? You can tell me about the OECD, you did it earlier, I heard it. I hear your argument – excuse me for thinking it's light. In any case, what is obvious is that this law came well in relation to this matter and was necessary in order to be able to resolve it quickly. That we have rarely seen a law – and fortunately, in democracy – as important – fundamentally alters the way in which justice is done in our country, in such heavy cases – adopted in such a chaotic way, in times of day-to-day business, without the advice of the Council of State, in a commission that was not specialized in matters. It even required the adoption of a correcting law to address the most serious facts. It was established that prior to the adoption of the law, contacts had been made by Armand De Decker and members of his team with various political and judicial actors. They kind of "anticipated" his adoption. It could be described as insider trading. One might say that we have applied "tailor-made" justice. It's haute couture! The archetype of class justice, with extraordinary speed, the blue carpet deployed, the initiative left to the defendants' lawyers and the "truth" found – since the necessary restorative law, the conclusion of the criminal transaction in good forms, dragged – nevertheless to re-qualify the facts so that it was no longer a prison sentence but a fine that was invoked. Reasonable time limit, article 23. Could Armand De Decker have done this on his own? His defense is to say: "No! Can you imagine? Do this on my own?" Mr. Van Quickenborne described it earlier as "lichtzinnig". In terms that I myself would not have dared to use in relation to a Member of Parliament: "a little slightly", "without thinking well" or "not very intelligently". From a political point of view, the then Minister of Finance weighed his weight in the balance for the passing of the law. Indeed, the idea of a law existed before the law was passed. It's often like that. There have been texts since 2009, which have been prepared under certain circumstances, and which we have mentioned. The law was in the freezer: we were in day-to-day business and we were not talking about it anymore, since a budget discussion in 2009. Then she got out of the freezer. Mr Van Quickenborne, I found your explanations on the political strategy to strike a balance between the expectations of the various parties in this area. Majorities could be moving at the time, in times of current business. I even managed to get a bill passed at the time. But it was not adopted by the Senate; there was still a double reading. The Minister of Finance and his cabinet were both the triggers and guarantors of this political agreement that led to the vote on the criminal transaction – we saw it in the parliamentary procedure. You think it's annoyance and that we tortured Mr. Fontinoy, but he or the members of his cabinet, between 2010 and 2012, met the French actors in the case, the company of Artagnan: Senator Aymeri de Montesquiou, the prefect Etienne des Rosaies who, in 2012, met Mr. Fontinoy, lawyer Degoul, concerning other files, it seems... It's the fruit of chance, no doubt. I asked him about it, he answered me. I'll take note of that. Nor can you deny that he is very close to Mr. Armand De Decker: they are both uccllois. Mr. De Decker's gonna knock on every door except for his friend and colleague's. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u25	We often go back to the fact that they're both uccllois. From the moment we're Ucclois, is it safe, we know each other, we talk about Kazakhgate? Can you clarify your thinking? Mr Reynders lived in Liège; I would not like you to combine him again. Explain to us why, because we live in the same municipality, automatically we would have a connection in Kazakhgate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u26	We don't automatically have a link in Kazakhgate. But I can tell you that with Mr Nollet, when I have an important political issue, we are exchanging and trying to establish strategies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u27	Do you live in Charleroi?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u28	No, but we're seeing each other. On Monday morning, at 9.30 a.m., alternately in Namur and Brussels, we have a party bureau meeting. On Thursday morning, at 10 a.m., in Room 3, we have a group meeting. On Thursday afternoon, we are together in plenary. When our colleague, Mr Calvo, is not there from time to time or at the mouth, we can sit side by side and discuss dossiers. I think you have to do the same with Mr. Flahaux or...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u29	Rest assured: without necessarily living in the same municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u30	Oh, no. I'm the only member of Parliament, Ecolo, in Assesse. I can confirm that. So these are elements, not to mention his proximity to Nicolas Sarkozy. Mr Reynders was indeed received in our committee. I have asked, and I assure him, at one point, that we can anticipate his coming to committee. There was a disagreement with the chairman of the committee, in particular. This can happen. I disagree on everything with Mr. Van der Maelen. There was a disagreement with the rest of the committee, which did not follow my point of view. This can happen. In democracy, one has the right to express views, to propose an organization of work and to be beaten by voting. I took note of Mr. Reynders' affidavits, that there was no connection with the file. What else can I say? What else can I say is to take note of the statements made in the committee of inquiry under oath? Nevertheless, I remain dubious. Let me keep a doubt. These questions are not the only ones in the file. I'll finish. As we have said, it is a multi-door, multi-challenge file. Is it normal for an economic sector facing legal problems to be able to draw up a law with judges so that it can get out of its troubles? It is clearly a stone in the garden of the CD&V. How can we improve the functioning of our justice system in the fight against financial crime? This case on which there is a transaction in 2011 has been dragging around the corridors of the Brussels courthouse for years. Other files involving the same people were prescribed for lack of efficiency and for having made financial crime a priority that undermines public finances. What are the other steps taken by Mr. Unknown Decker from our commission? Not being a judicial investigator, I don't know. How is it that the Minister of Justice found out that the criminal transaction had been passed without his advice being sought? It was like Mrs. Marghem found out that the nuclear power plants had been shut down. This comparison was mocked when I made it in committee, but it was also as if the Minister of Finance found out that corporate taxes had been reformed without asking him for his opinion. It's hard to believe. Why did he not bring to justice the steps taken by Mr. De Decker introducing himself to his home as the lawyer for the Elysée? I share Mr. de Le Court's question. Why did the State Security Commission wait until 2015 to report to the courts the facts it had known since 2012? An analyst produced three notes saying that France informed us that Mr. De Decker had presented himself as our representative of the State in Paris, it is an identity usurpation that justifies preventing justice. Why did we wait so long to deal with this case? Now, what follow-up? A series of recommendations are in the report and others have been proposed by colleagues and may be adopted. We ask that an approach be taken in any way with regard to the French Republic. We think, as I said on a television set, and there is no reason why I should not repeat it here, that Mr. De Decker must be taken away. Indeed, it would be a first, but I think that when we have public responsibilities directly or indirectly linked to an election - or to a nomination, since it is a royal decree that designates the ministers of state - we have a duty of exemplarity (communal adviser, alderman, deputy), all the more so according to the importance of our responsibilities. Depending also on the severity of your remarks - which I congratulate you on, even if I find them a little late - remove this title from Mr. De Decker. For the rest, justice will do its job. As an epilogue, I would like to say two words about the extraordinary nature of this dossier. As I said, and I was still expecting, this committee of inquiry took place in a context of enormous tensions, internal pressure. It is not abnormal in the face of such serious facts and political responsibilities that are pointed out. I am not surprised that we disagree, Mr Clarinval, but this committee, and in particular some of its members - the chairman and your servant - have also been subjected to significant external pressure which I want to appoint to this rostrum. I will not dwell on the piracy attempts I have been subjected to and against which we have filed a complaint, on this information indicating that I have been investigated by a specialized private company based in the United States. I would like to return to two particular and disturbing factual elements in this case. The first is the "negative public relations" campaign mentioned in our report, known as black PR, against the work of the committee, and in particular some of its members, on a website based in Malaysia. I do not think I am wrong in saying that this is the first time that our democracy has been confronted with such organised practices. It can be seen that this exists in other countries. This can even influence electoral processes, and I think we need to be collectively attentive to them. The second element concerns the summons to civil liability against the committee and two of its members, the chairman and I, brought by one of the protagonists of the case - which was its strictest right - and which totally ignores Article 58 of the Constitution. This rule provides that no member of either House may be prosecuted or sought in connection with the opinions and votes cast by him in the performance of his duties. In this context, I intend to defend the freedom of speech and opinion of all parliamentarians present and to come, starting with myself, because, in this case - this is my conclusion - in the face of such serious facts, in the face of such a state affair - I repeat, ladies and gentlemen - in the face of such interference in our internal affairs, in the face of such a lack of respect for the separation of powers, in the face of the unqualified attitude of some of us, it would have been far more serious to be silent than to speak, question and seek the truth, even if it obviously bothers a few colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sixteen months! Sixteen months we're investigating the criminal transaction. Sixteen months that the subject occupies our minds and may even influence our behavior. At the end of our work, I will not go diagonally through the 500 pages of the report. No, I would like to read our report from a particular angle. That particular angle is ours. I mean, this is Parliament's angle. I would like to invite you to reflect once again on ourselves, without complacency, without compromise, but also without self-flagellation and, it must be said, without populist deviation. As I said at the inaugural session of our work in December 2016, and 16 months later, I did not change my mind: we must engage in an exercise of institutional introspection; I would even say parliamentary introspection. Without ignoring anything about the behaviour of the government, ministers, their collaborators, their services. Without ignoring anything of the conduct of the judicial authorities, and in particular of the attitude of the prosecutors and of their functioning. Without ignoring anything of the manoeuvres that could have developed, especially by coming from outside, from abroad, to guide in a particular direction the course of the judicial proceedings that were opened in Belgium. Without ignoring anything, of course, criminal behaviour. It is still the starting point of the whole case, we must never forget it. All these behaviours, which the justice system has sought at length, difficult to grasp and which it ultimately found useful, to try to close the case by concluding a criminal transaction. All this is true. All this is important. I would even say that all this is essential, but let us not forget in this 360° reflection on the action of the public authorities! Let us return for a moment to ourselves and this for at least three reasons. The first reason lies in the mission that the House of Representatives has given us. I am not going to recall the contours, but finally, Part 1, as we say in our jargon, was still concerned with the naturalisation procedure. Under what conditions can a person become Belgian? How do we work in this particular sector of activity? How did we work, especially in the Chodiev et al. file? As for Part II, it required us to enter the heart of the parliamentary machine, I was going to say in the parliamentary black box. Other questions then arose: how does a law come into being, not only in law, but in fact? How will a law, and even two laws, come into being in times of day-to-day business? How were they discussed, voted, sanctioned and published? Of course, it was a matter of going beyond appearances and identifying the pressures, normal or not, that could have been exerted on that occasion. This is a first reason for our mission. The second, of course, is that some of our fellow senators, members of Parliament, regional members – whether still in office or not – have been able to play a significant role in the development of parliamentary or judicial procedures, or both at the same time. We know that the case is still pending before the Mons Court of Appeal. This is the case of justice. However, in the exercise of our jurisdiction, we could ask ourselves several questions. Are there sufficient safeguards? Are the rules of ethics clear enough? Are control procedures effective? How can we avoid the development of reprehensible behaviours, assuming they are proven? The third reason Parliament has dealt with this issue is because of our organisation and our functioning. In other debates, we talked about the blurring of the norm that could be translated, in this case, into the behaviour of one or more persons. But it can also be favoured by some form of institutional development. If the procedures are not sufficiently precise or rigorous, they may encourage crossing the blank line or, at least, they do not prevent such crossing. In short, our mission, our staff, and the peculiarities of our organization and our operations prompted us to look at ourselves. Will you allow me this formula? Like Marguerite, we had to look in a mirror to judge the past, no doubt, but, even more important in my mind, to prepare for the future. Have we succeeded in carrying out this introspection exercise? My answer will be nuanced. I will formulate it on three themes: method, diagnosis and remedies. I'll start with the method. We are well aware that the Constitution, which we must return to, is very concise in terms of parliamentary investigations, since it says very laconically that the House of Representatives has the right of inquiry. The old Law of 1880 on Parliamentary Investigations, amended several times since then, has filled the relative silence of the Constitution. I must recall here the famous cardinal rule that guided all our work. Article 1 of the Law: "Investigations carried out by the House of Representatives shall not replace those of the judiciary with which they may enter into competition without, however, hindering the conduct of such investigations". Let's recognize it, the formula is a little tarabiscoted. It may suggest that the legislator has expressed himself in a emberlificotious manner and that the law says a little something and its opposite. I believe that the work of the criminal transaction commission has had the merit of decorating this section 1 of the law that I have just read. Our analysis will no doubt serve as a model for those who will have to use the same technique in the future. What do we say? We say three things. The first is that there is investigation and investigation. Let us not confuse the parliamentary inquiry with the judicial investigation. The parliamentary inquiry follows on from the tasks assigned to us, that is to say, to make the law, to control the government, to verify the way in which the public authorities operate, including, and I come back to that, those of the House itself. It is an investigation that is developing in a public way, which is carried out through a commission set up in the House, which can hear witnesses. They are neither suspects nor accused. The judicial investigation is different. It will try to establish facts constituting an offence and which, if necessary, should be criminally punished. It is entrusted to a magistrate. The investigation is done in secret. We hear witnesses, suspects, and this can lead, as everyone knows, to prosecution. We're in two different universes. This is a first element of method. Secondly, as the law says, we must also accept the idea that investigations can enter "in competition". The formula may be somewhat ambiguous because some say competition is equivalent to competition. Why not run speed? What about ego between authorities responsible for both investigations? When the law says "in competition", this actually means that the two investigations can develop simultaneously, parallel, knowing the same facts, situations, people, but each working in the particular objective and with the particular methods that are his. The third rule of procedure is that investigations conducted by the House of Representatives should not impede the conduct of the judicial investigation. By the way, note that the formula is worded in a one-way way: it is not appropriate that the investigations of the House or its commission, nor the recommendations that we might make, interfere with the investigation reserved for the judiciary. I come to my second subject: diagnosis. In committee, we tried to make a diagnosis as complete and lucid as possible. Of course, it only concerns the past. Honestly, I believe that at the end of the exercise, we see more clearly, we understand better what happened. The facts are well documented, especially on the famous time line. As I have said on several occasions, these facts are now known. They are stubborn and will impose themselves on all of us. They will question the citizen who will be aware of our report. He will also question the public authorities who will do the same: ministers, magistrates, civil servants, members of cabinets. This report will appeal to today's parliamentarians. This report will also appeal to tomorrow's parliamentarians. Those who read together the 500 pages of the report will learn all the useful lessons if we have not done so in the meantime. The investigative work allowed us to take stock of some of the modalities of the legislative function, of the function of making the law in the proper sense of the term, with these three essential questions: when, how and under what conditions? When? Yes, I cannot fail to go back to the issue of day-to-day affairs. How to legislate during current business hours? And on this occasion, we could not help but wonder about the meaning and scope of a true myth. I am saying a tenacious myth, including in our ranks, in the House of Representatives. A myth maintained, developed by those who ignore the peculiarities of our institutional organization. This myth would mean that, in times of day-to-day business, Parliament really lives the golden age of the parliamentary institution. You know the speech: we have just been newly elected at the end of the elections, and we are going to show that we are taking our new mandate to heart, and since the government is not feeding the House of Representatives and let's go ahead with it, let's focus on our tasks, including making the law. And we, parliamentarians, are in the throes of government for the time to legislate. It's a myth! In law, as in fact. This is a myth in law because the government, even if resigned, even from current affairs, must ultimately sanction, promulgate and publish the texts voted by the assembly. At that time, he did not exercise any related jurisdiction. In fact, the same government that resigns, even from day-to-day affairs, continues to feed the House into projects, not least since, given the length of the crisis – a year and a half – it goes so far as to draft a budget, the latter being the political act par excellence. It's a dangerous myth. The day-to-day business is a time when caution must be increased, when a precautionary policy must be pursued within government and Parliament. Since there is no longer effective control by the members of the House of Representatives, we are in a critical period for Parliament that has lost its normal interlocutor. I agree with the view already expressed at this meeting. I believe that, especially during the few weeks or months of current affairs, we should not only submit our drafts, but also our bills to a more systematic review of the legislative section of the Council of State. It should also be left to the institution to respond within a reasonable time to the consultations that would be requested. When but also how? As part of the second part of our investigations, we have been asked, for the most part, about the drafting of a law on various provisions and the amendment that was made to them in connection with the proceedings before the House of Representatives. I recognize that making a law with various provisions is convenient. It has entered into use, despite the criticisms it calls and which it must arouse. In my opinion, the criticisms are of three kinds. First, a tote law prevents the development of an effective parliamentary debate. I would like to criticise a particular provision, for example in judicial matters. I am immediately reminded that I may prejudice the adoption of another provision of the Act, whether it be a tax or a social one, which is of particular interest. Secondly, the creation of a piece of legislation covering the most diverse subjects prevents the development of a coherent parliamentary debate. The discussion takes place in various committees and it is not even certain that the division of the bill is consistent with the purpose of the provisions discussed. Voluntary or involuntary erratic journeys are not to be excluded. Thirdly, the making of a piece of legislation distorts the practice of the right of amendment. An amendment should normally refer to a specific provision of a text to be corrected, supplemented or deleted. Here, it is the insertion, at the last minute, of provisions which have no connection with the original text. So, if this provision, if such an amendment is conceived in the form of a bill but is in fact an initiative of the government, the process proceeds – excuse the formula – from a form of further manipulation of the parliamentary assembly. It is a legislative disorder which is critical in itself and which is even more so, it must be noted, in times of day-to-day business. When? How? Under what conditions? Let me say this. The exercise of the legislative function is even more dangerous when several flashing lights are lit at the same time. I know that, taken separately, these little windows are no problem. But, if taken simultaneously, it is equivalent to an alarm signal that should encourage caution. What is worrying is the accumulation of facts and, moreover, deviant facts. We know them. I'm listing them in the leu leu tail. 1. The government is in a state of day-to-day business. 2. During this period, however, he tabled a large draft containing various provisions. 3. He suggested amending it by parliamentary means in the House. 4. He does not accept an amendment to the Senate. 5. It provokes hasty debates. It's like a domino game. They're pieces that fall one after the other. Or, to take another image, it's like in a submarine: there are ballasts but, if the captain opens the doors, at some point, the submarine may sink. As I have already said, we have talked in other debates about the blurring of the norm. Here there is a veritable blurring of procedural rules. We lost sight, consciously or unconsciously, of this old rule that came from the French Revolution: "Forms and procedures protect." They protect citizens from the arbitrariness of the executive. They protect the public authorities from authoritarianism. They even protect, I dare say, against certain forms of amateurism. The authors of the proposed legislation did not comply with the instructions I have just recalled for six months, and despite the warnings given to them, particularly in the Senate, particularly by me. I'm claiming the role of whistleblower. It is also the role of a Member of Parliament. The government has multiplied its efforts to avoid a set of useful, if not necessary, controls. Parliament was complicit or saw nothing but fire. In these legislative conditions, it is not surprising that Chodiev et al. has been engulfed in the breaches that were thus generously opened. The lawyers seized the opportunity that was available to them. Judges have benefited from the existing legislative framework. They have made a very broad interpretation of the Code of Criminal Investigation. They found an opportunity to quickly end too long a dispute. The criminal transaction is the result of meeting these concerns. Read the report! That's very well explained. It's very well husked. Everyone, and in particular judicial judges, to draw the conclusions in due course! The method, the diagnosis, the remedies. I have the feeling that we have shown real timidity when it comes to making suggestions for reform for the future. In the field of remedies, the ratio lacks height of sight. He lacks audacity. He refuses to chart prospects for reform for tomorrow. Let me put it this way: the report, in this part of the recommendations, was written with a nose on the handlebars! I am among those who consider that, on this ground, that of the recommendations, we have fallen short of the normal work that we are entitled to expect from a committee of inquiry. You'll tell me that maybe it's normal. I am not saying that my colleagues in the majority felt that everything was best in the best parliamentary world. But, in the face of criticism which, in one way or another, could reach them, the supporters of the majority did, which is normal, proof of discipline and solidarity. They said that any reform proposal formulated in 2018 became a kind of implicit confession of guilt or, in any case, a lack of responsiveness for what had happened in 2011. Others in the opposition, from the beginning of the work and then at the time of conclusion, made accusations of conspiracy on all floors and in all sectors. I believe that these imputations in general have made it difficult to pursue a calm debate, to seek consensus and to formulate useful proposals. The proposals that I, for my part, had expressed and written in an argument and nuanced manner have, in this concert of cries and lamentations, fallen into the trap sometimes without much logic. Some of the reforms I have outlined are set out in the observations, as if we were going to go back to them. Then, at the time of the recommendations, nothing follows. Comprehensive who can! To fill these gaps a little bit, I would like to make three points, which are in fact three tips. The first, ladies and gentlemen, is that we must take the time to legislate. The emergency is suspicious. Precipitation and improvisation are bad counselors. According to the dedicated formula, time must be given. I know that everything is urgent and that there is an infinite number of emergencies: political, social, financial, international. We are no longer in the time of the diligences. But when the emergency is invoked and it is not always verified, it is urgent! Why is it urgent? Because it's urgent! This can lead to a derogatory regime that removes all barriers and controls, and it must be asked at that time whether the facts that have not been controlled do not become the cause and whether the concern to dispense with parliamentary institutions and control does not justify the invocation of the famous urgency itself and especially in times of day-to-day business. Second, if I dare to formulate it, we must find pleasure in legislating, in writing beautiful and good laws in form and substance, in incorporating them into the body of legislation, in organizing their implementation over time. As a former senator, I have a regret in this Kazakhgate case. It's for taking the statements of the Minister of Justice as cash. He told us with his mouth in mind: "Do not amend!", which would still have been the normal solution. We said, "Let's fix it!", This, of course, made it necessary to make a new law expressly, quickly, very quickly. The minister added: "Trust me! I will ensure the simultaneous publication of these two laws." Yes, we believed him by word of mouth. We may have forgotten that incidents could occur in the coming days and weeks. We had to find that, in the end, the parallelism of the procedures was not guaranteed. We were gullible. We are also accomplices, I remind you, and I repeat, when we accept the catch-all laws. These laws deconstructed the government that believes it is useful to use them every year. These laws deconstructed the supporting Parliament. It would be time to return to the heart of our legislative profession. Third board. It may be necessary to imagine new forms or minimum forms of control, particularly in these current periods of business. I am thinking of legal controls like those of the Council of State. I am thinking of political control, in public sittings or in committees. I know that ministers have the spirit elsewhere, and that is the problem. Some already pack their packages, as they say. Others are preparing for their conversion. Still others are occupied by the composition of a new government. Is this a reason not to explain itself, not to justify that the matter under consideration is well entered into the field of routine affairs, not to explain that it is not possible to wait for the formation of a full-fledged government? Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary investigation into the criminal transaction, sixteen months ago, was an adventure. She started chaotically. Let's go over these anicoches, some of which make their daily bread. I would like to thank Sophie De Wit for the words spoken to me and the colleagues who, this afternoon, wanted to associate themselves with her words. His words moved me very much. I say it the way I think it is. The parliamentary inquiry kept the distance. The main thing was to control a file without being contaminated by ancillary or peripheral questions. The main thing was to agree to question us a little, without always delaying the fault on others or saying "it's the fault step by step". The adventure ends for the seventeen commissioners. In the House to take over today, tomorrow, during the elections. But above all to her, the day after tomorrow, with her eyes fixed on the objective, to make our Parliament work better, to ensure that our Members carry out their duties with a sharper sense of the state and an even greater concern for the general interest. It is in this spirit that I approved the observations of the committee's report. This is a wealth of observations, observations, very useful in the future. It is also in this spirit that I did not vote for the assessments and recommendations, not all of which lack the height of sight, the spirit of self-criticism, the detachment from the Kazakh file. I hope that the spirit of the report, as I have sought to synthesize it, can tomorrow be translated into rules, procedures, behaviour that does not make the bed of populism or anti-parliamentarianism. I remain confident in Parliament, if it is able to overcome the test experienced, because of the unseasoned behaviour of a few men in the exercise of their governmental, legislative, judicial, influence and advisory functions. I remain confident in Parliament if it is able to design the safeguards that will protect us in the future from these abuses, malfunctions and loss of landmarks. I have only one word to add, but my conviction is clear: I want to believe, despite everything, in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Van Quickenborne asked a question in his speech in the rostrum: is the parliamentary committee of inquiry necessary? Did it provide teaching, enlightenment, a contribution to the search for the truth? At the end of his speech, he suggested that we should be more reserved before setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Let me say first of all - and I thank the colleagues who have joined in my initiative - that, more than ever, I am convinced of the indispensable nature of this committee of inquiry. The starting point was indisputably the revelation of the behaviour of one of the most eminent politicians, by the functions he performed, and of the role he agreed to assume, certainly as a lawyer, at the request of a cell of the Elysée. This alone justified the fact that we could ask a political question. I did not expect any definitive conclusions to be reached on the work of the Committee of Inquiry. I never thought for a moment that we would be able to determine all the responsibilities. I never thought for a moment that there would necessarily be revelations that would lead some people heard before the commission to say what, perhaps, they still know today, but they still haven't said. And I attended almost all of the hearings On the other hand, what I was convinced was that our work would be useful in the pursuit of judicial work. The great teaching of this commission of inquiry is there. Today, Mr Massin made a dazzling summary and I would like to congratulate him on that. He gave us a summary of the chronology of the facts which demonstrates their seriousness, but which also demonstrates what, for any criminal investigator, could only lead to at least one questioning. Indeed, the rapprochement and acceleration of the facts over time justify the judicial branch's unquestionably continuing investigations. We hope he will. As a result of this parliamentary investigation, the chronology of the facts has been clearly defined. When we see how much political work and judicial work have been carried out almost in real time, i.e. there has been such a rapprochement between the initiatives taken on both sides, we have the right to consider that there is more than one doubt. There may be responsibilities that will have to be determined by the criminal investigation. There were some great moments. As Mr Gilkinet said, the strongest was the hearing of Claude Guéant in committee. I have read the transcript carefully. Already when I heard him that day, I was convinced that he had told us much more than some thought he could say after his hearing. Mr. Guéant is not just anyone. Secretary General of the Elysée is not the most common function of the French Republic. He was called the eminence, the cardinal, the president of the shadow, the vice-president or the vice-roy, in short, for who follows a little French political news, he was, for a long time, the man of absolute confidence of President Sarkozy. He was the man who accompanied the entire political journey of this president, even in previous functions. This man mastered with great elegance his speech before the commission, seeking to tell us only what was strictly necessary. With this French courtesy, he probably sought to conceal certain facts. When you read the entire audition, you can see that his defence system wasn't as sure as that. And I would like to focus in particular on the meeting at the end of February 2011, at the Élysée, between Claude Guéant, Damien Loras, diplomatic adviser, Me Degoul and Armand De Decker. Circumstances quite special, because Claude Guéant, recalls, is about to leave his post as Secretary General and will take up his post as Minister of the Interior. It is in a hot political news and gives itself time – one imagines it! – to receive for a lunch, which he says briefly in view of the circumstances but which takes place at that time, Armand De Decker and the lawyer who runs from France the defence of the persons in question whom we otherwise know, Chodiev and company. Can we imagine what that means? The Secretary General of the Elysée, who will become Minister of the Interior, i.e. one of the most essential regal functions of the Republic, one of the most jealous functions, one of the most regarded functions being those directly related to the President of the Republic, this person gives himself the time, precisely at that time, to devote an interview to Armand De Decker. Why? A few days earlier, the three suspects were returned to the substantive jurisdiction. It's panic on board! How to achieve the expected result requested by the Elysée since the start of the case? That is why, at the end of February 2011, there is an urgent meeting at the summit of the Presidency of the Republic with Claude Guéant. In his style of extraordinary courtesy, he tells us that he had little time to devote, and that was held to a few points of circumstance. Mr. Guéant states that we spoke very kindly of the friendship between Uccle and Neuilly. I do not know who counted the exiles of whom on this occasion, because it is another subject, but more fundamentally, Mr Guéant says that Mr Degoul referred to the question and then he suggests that we have mainly talked about another international matter which occupied the opinion which was the possible return of Mrs Florence Cassez. Claude Guéant was questioned on May 9, 2017 to find out how far he was informed of what was being prepared in our assembly. As a first step he said, in response to a question from Mrs De Wit, that he had certainly been informed – I do not know by what channel – of this prospect of legislative development which, perhaps, allowed to give another outcome than that originally envisaged to the judicial difficulties encountered by Mr Chodiev and his companions. That is true. However, as far as customs are concerned, ma'am, it is enough to read the press to be informed of what is happening in neighbouring countries. It is not necessary to have specific intelligence channels, except that at that time the press did not talk about this matter and certainly not about the drafting of the law. And then he's in a hurry with questions from our colleague Mr. Van Quickenborne and he answers again. There, we already feel the first flaw. Firstly, I would say the same thing as what I said earlier, and I found that the fact that it was possible to have led to a criminal transaction rather than to the continuation of the proceedings was in France's interest, since it dissipated the judicial situation of Mr Chodiev and his friends. That's indisputable. It's an observation of fact. It's an objective observation. That is what he agrees to recognize, following the February 2011 interview! And when we keep pressing him and I ask him if he received Mr. De Decker, not as a lawyer, but as a politician, what does he say to me? He said to me: 'We have, no doubt, for a chronological reason which has been mentioned by your colleague, referred to the prospect of the vote, but without further details'. At the time, it was just a government decision to submit a bill to Parliament. February 2011, during an interview at the Élysée, a luncheon with Me De Goul, Me De Decker, but in another position, speaks to him clearly – the confession is there, under the oath of Mr Guéant – of the forthcoming adoption of a bill on the criminal transaction that will allow Mr Chodiev and company to escape the conviction before a criminal court. So, contrary to what has been said, there is indeed a link between the passage of the law on the criminal transaction and the manoeuvres of the Elysée, Mr. Guéant admitted to us on 9 May, during his sworn hearing. He made it clear: "We talked about the prospect of voting this law." It's clear, it's obvious, it's definitive, it's from Mr. Guéant's admission. That's what I'm talking about. Read the report again! After that, I can't say today, and I don't have any other consequences as to whether other politicians were aware of what Mr. De Decker's preparation of the criminal transaction law. I hope the criminal investigation will let us know. I dare to hope, at last, that the magistrates – it is true that we no longer have echoes, and indeed so much the better! – and the Attorney General of Mons, perhaps on the basis of what are the hearing rooms, is making sure to do a very indispensable investigative work. But today, to conclude that in short, Mr. De Decker would sum up as his only lawyer in this case, it is misleading public opinion! And it is true that there is a question to which we do not have an answer, but neither do I have any hypothesis to give. At least we can ask ourselves the question: how can we believe that Mr. De Decker arrived in the Chodiev case at the request of the Elysée cell by the mere knowledge Ms Degoul would have had of the great merits of Mr. De Decker? How can we believe for a moment that at the Elysée, where we are in charge of following the trail – I have just proved it – this file, Mr. De Decker was so well-known, in his personal capacity, to the closest advisers to the President of the French Republic? That it is he who must be taken in this case as a lawyer, while Mr. Chodiev also had other criminal lawyers, by the way, who may have been much more skilled in the exploitation of the law on criminal transaction than Mr. De Decker, who did not appear to the PV anymore as counsel to Mr Chodiev for the conclusion of the criminal transaction? To that question, I have no answer. I don't have a hypothesis to give. I am not going to say that there is a political response. I wonder because I do not believe for a moment that it is because Mr. Guéant and Mr. des Rosaies or Mr. Degoul knew Mr. De Decker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u33	I would like to make a little clarification. Mr Maingain, on 2 February, prior to this meeting, there has already been an article in the press, in particular by Mrs Van Cauter, which referred to this agreement and to the notification that had taken place the day before. Press articles were published before the meeting. This information was made public earlier. At that meeting, Mr. Guéant was not alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u35	M. De Decker a peut-être lu De Standaard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u36	We are talking about the vote. You can hear what Mr Guéant said, who is not a political apprentice. He knows the power relations in politics. He said very clearly that the outcome of the vote had been mentioned. He wanted assurances about the outcome of the law. That is what he has come to confess to us at his hearing on 9 May. This is not an annoyance, Mr. Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u37	I'm not saying otherwise, Mr. Maingain. I agree with you. I simply draw your attention to the fact that an article had already appeared before this meeting. Mr Guéant did not read the Dutch-speaking press but, on the other hand, Mr Guéant did. From Decker probably. This information was thus already known at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u38	That's not what I'm talking about! While Mr. Guéant said that he did not know everything at first, he later admitted, during his hearing, that he had cared about the successful completion of the criminal transaction law. He therefore made very clearly the link between the objective pursued by the Elysée in the Chodiev case and the criminal transaction law. Contrary to what is said, the Elysée was well aware of the process being developed to ensure that this criminal transaction law could benefit those whom the Elysée sought to protect in a totally unjustifiable manner. It's a major fact. That is Mr Guéant's very confession before our committee. I come back to the question I asked for which I have no answer. I have no consequences. I'm not questioning anyone. In any case, I hope that, through the work of justice, we will one day have the answer to find out how Mr. De Decker was chosen as a lawyer in this case. You'll allow me to think that it's not just because of his merit as a lawyer. No one will believe that for a moment! I'm also of the opinion that there are no MRs on all floors. But there was an MR on the right floor; I think that's indisputable. This RM on the right floor still allowed a certain political relay for the Elysée. Now it will be up to the justice system to tell us how far this political relay has played.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that seems to be the case for the majority. Finally, this commission of inquiry is almost a non-event: everyone is whitewashed. Mr. Van Quickenborne even believes that setting up this commission of inquiry was not necessary as it resulted in evidence that everyone knew and that no one was surprised. It is clear that we were in an operation that did not necessarily seek to make all the light and transparency, but on the contrary! The exclusion of the PTB and other small parties could already anticipate the Commission's vision. I would point out that most of the opposition parties had supported the presence of small parties in this committee, but that the majority did not want it. And the point is when Mr Clarinval felt earlier that I could not speak because I was not a member of the committee, and so I was not there, and at the same time felt in his vote that I could not be part of it! I can't be there and I can't speak if I'm not there. So I have the right to "close my mouth." Basically, that's Mr. Clarinval's reasoning. I read the report, Mr Clarinval, but I did not have access to the various documents that the Commissioners had. I don't have the in camera hearing reports, etc. I therefore have only some of the documents and documentation that the Commissioners have had access to, including earlier versions, possibly censored by the majority, which I have not had either. Indeed, this is a sabotage in order of this committee, and finally of the report. Even La Libre Belgique, which is not the organ of the PTB, writes this: "The consequence of all this is that the final report, after 16 months of work, is quite slim." And we can say the same about the content and even the various facts that are advanced. The government had had the extended criminal transaction voted in March, without waiting for the conclusion of the commission. The majority then said that these are two things that have nothing to do with each other. I don't think it's two things that have anything to do with each other. I think there's the same logic, the same problem, which is that we're doing tailor-made, class-based justice. There was obviously an important nuance. The law that you passed in March was custom-made law. What is dealt with in the committee of inquiry is "tailor-made". It is a custom-made law for particular cases, even if the majority contests this version. Even vis-à-vis the MR's "fusible", Armand De Decker, whose mistakes are flagrant, I find that the report is finally quite gentle. We pull his ear a little, but nicely. He is still a member and parliamentarian of the MR. Mr Clarinval, I am not going back to the discussion you had earlier with Mr Gilkinet. I'm a little surprised by your words. You say, "We're not a judge. We can't punish Mr. De Decker. And by the way, we've already sanctioned him." So we're a judge for the part where he's already been punished. Now we can punish him. But where we didn't punish him, we're not a judge. So we can't punish him. You don't understand, Mr. Clarinval. I'll tell you again. You tell us: "Look, we've already punished him. He is no longer a mayor of Uccle and has lost other mandates." Then you tell us that he is a Member of Parliament, a member of the MR and that he cannot be punished because we are not a judge. But you had just said, just before, that you had punished him. Don't you think there's a contradiction? Do I have to do it again? The third time will be the right one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u40	I repeat this for the fourth time so that Mr. Van Hees understands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u41	Don't repeat what you've already told me. Answer my questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u42	Indeed, ethical mistakes have been found and we find them unacceptable. We share what has been said by all parliamentarians here with regard to ethical misconduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u43	Why is he still a parliamentarian then?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u44	As there was a deontological error on the part of Mr. De Decker, measures have been taken towards him, including, as I explained, the withdrawal of six internal mandates from the MR, the fact that he is no longer a mayor of Uccle, etc. On the other hand, the three remaining mandates - the fact that he is an advisor, the fact that he is a Member of Parliament and the fact that he still has his MR membership card - these three terms will be re-evaluated when the court decides. If he is charged, if he is convicted, it is obvious that the party will take the necessary sanctions against him and go further. Today, we have weighed the weight of ethical misconduct and the sanctions have been taken accordingly, Mr Van Hees. I've already said it four times. I'm not going to repeat it a fifth time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u45	I conclude from this that, for you, the mistakes - the way it is expressed is still nice, but they clearly appear in the report - do not justify the loss of his parliamentary mandate. That's right! If we make the link between this case and others, we wonder if it does not begin to become dangerous to be a member of the MR, with the risk, at some point, of being accused of being a member of an international criminal organization, with Armand De Decker who would lead the Kazakh branch, Serge Kubla who would lead the Congolese branch and Alain Destexhe who would lead the Azeri branch. What also emerges from this commission is the diamond-makers' part, which is not thin. We knew that a Diamant club had been set up in Parliament - President Jan Jambon, Vice-President Servais Verherstraeten - a creation which, in fact, precedes the whole matter before us here. This Diamond club in Parliament is almost an institutionalisation of the conflict of interest. What is significant is to hear our colleague, Sophie De Wit, say earlier that we did not allow a search at AWDC, while, on the other hand, the N-VA believes that we can, without problems, search citizens who are hosting a refugee. Welcoming a refugee is a serious matter! That justifies a search. But when it comes to diamond dealers who are responsible for 60% of SwissLeaks' files, there is really no point in carrying out searches. It is interesting to read this in this report, at point 666 in the assessment: "Although AWDC was working in favour of an extension of the extended criminal transaction law, the Committee of Inquiry notes that it did not influence the legislative process in 2011." You still have to dare! Who is one of the co-sponsors of the amendment that introduces the criminal transaction? Servais Verherstraeten, vice president of this Diamond club. And they say that there was no influence on the legislative process! It's hard to understand. They are the diamond lobby themselves, the deputies who are members of this Diamond Club. There is also the role of diamond attorneys, Raf Verstraeten and Axel Haelterman. They will be present on all floors of state organs, with, each time, invoicing at AWDC. It starts in May 2007: email from Axel Haelterman to Raf Verstraeten in preparation for the AWDC Board of Directors where they formulate the idea of the expanded criminal transaction. This contradicts what Mr Van Quickenborne said about the anteriority of Yves Liégeois' interview. I think Yves Liégeois' interview dates from August 29, 2007. This May 2007 email is prior to this interview. The idea of the criminal transaction could very well come from Mr Liegeois, but the facts seem to show that it is in the head of Axel Haelterman that it is born, in any case under his writing of e-mails. In 2007, the same Haelterman contacted Vandeurzen and Van Parijs and submitted the legislation for the criminal transaction and seizure. In 2007, Raf Verstraeten met Koen Geens, who was at the time both Chief of Staff of Kris Peeters and Administrator of Eubelius, the employer of Raf Verstraeten. Somewhere, he chats with his employee! In 2008, Raf Verstraeten provided a text to the government's anti-fraud working group. In December 2008, the two lawyers participated in a meeting in the Justice Strategic Cell with Ms. Penne. In January 2009, Raf Verstraeten was invited to the College of Attorneys General. In September 2010: interview of Haelterman and Verstraeten with Liegeois on HSBC files. Finally, in 2011, Verstraeten and Haelterman were two of the three experts who came to inform the Senate Justice Committee at the time of the adoption of the expanded criminal transaction. On the Kazakh trio, quickly, naturalization itself – even though it may not be the essential part of the work of the commission of inquiry – is in a way the hors d'oeuvre of the criminal transaction, since we see that billionaire Chodiev already benefits at the time from a "tailor-made" with the support of an MR agent. Armand De Decker's malfeasances have been mentioned enough today. Let's note the salary cost of Armand De Decker. An agent of a party who advocated wage moderation and index jumps for workers paid €740,000 for 350 supposed hours. Supposing that he made them, it still makes 2,114 euros an hour. For a member of a party that advocates wage moderation, there is the impression that there is a bit of a problem. De Decker hasn't pleaded in years. He goes to the minister's house, he goes to the cabinet, he goes to the magistrates. All this by always mixing his hats as Speaker of the Senate and as a lawyer. He goes so far as to pay money to a magistrate through an association run by him. I'm not going to dwell on the conclusion of the deal with Chodiev. But here, too, we see some disturbing things on the part of the prosecutor's office. And there is the question of Didier Reynders' involvement. Indeed, the thesis of the majority, which Mr Clarinval repeated again, is that the work of the committee has completely cleared Didier Reynders and the whole of the MR. "If there is a conclusion to be drawn, that is the one," he told La Libre Belgique.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u47	That's because the reporter betrayed your word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u49	Okay, but it's a nuance that either you didn't tell the reporter, or he forgot it. I tend to believe in the first thesis. Let's say this commission was more like, "We have to save Private Reynders!" Indeed, it was believed at some point that this commission was going to lead to something, when information began to come out. But we quickly realized that the MR and CD&V were being held by the barbichette and that if one came out too many things, the other would do the same. There has been a clear resumption of control and several stakeholders have gone back to statements they had previously made. So they came back to what they said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u50	Mr. Van Hees says there has been an agreement between the CD&V and the MR to change some people's comments and I ask him to quote the people who have gone back on their statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u51	Mr. Leterme, for example. He went back to his statements. Yves Leterme told the press that Didier Reynders was pushing very hard to pass the criminal transaction. Then, when he came to speak in committee, he said the opposite, arguing that his remarks had been distorted by the journalist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u52	I hear a lot of freewheeling here. If you were present in committee at the time of the hearing with Mr Leterme, you would say something quite different. That's where he denied everything that was said in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u53	That's what I'm saying. He made some comments in the press that he no longer supported before the commission by saying that the journalists had distorted his remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u54	If you were present on the committee, you will know that all witnesses were questioned under oath. This is not the case for journalists who have written everything in the newspaper. If you question the credibility of the witnesses, then we must no longer organise committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u55	We understand that Mr. Van Hees discovers the report before us today. Can you cite a second example of a person who changed his or her statement as a result of this conspiracy between the CD&V and the MR? A second example because the first one made us laugh?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u56	I can find this for you. Not right now, but just look for a little bit and I'll find it. And then if I give you two, you're gonna want three and so on. I think Yves Leterme's example is already very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u57	You will take note that no one named by Mr. Van Hees did not change his mind as a result of the conspiracy between the CD&V and the MR. I take note that the only name that Mr. Van Hees quoted Mr. Leterme. We know very well what Mr Leterme has said, and this example is completely farfetched and the second example presented by Mr Leterme. Van Hees translates into his hesitation. Thank you for this very interesting speech, Mr Van Hees, which shows that you are really saying unacceptable slogans.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u58	Mr President, I honestly do not understand the surprise of my fellow Members. This man has been present at less than 10% of the hearings. Then how do you expect him to make sense here? Let him act, we are used to it, and let us move quickly to a perhaps more interesting speech by our President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u59	Mr Van Quickenborne, your speech is exactly what Mr Clarinval said earlier: you exclude us from the committee of inquiry and then you accuse us that we are not there. There's a contradiction in how you reason. The thesis of Mr Clarinval and the rest of the majority argues that the work of the committee has completely cleared Didier Reynders. It was his loved ones, his CD&V partners, changing version, who laundered Didier Reynders. Mr Guéant will obviously not sink Nicolas Sarkozy's friend, even if his words can be read between the lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u60	Already earlier, I was tired of hearing Mr. Van Hees and understand the process. I am very glad that he finally reveals himself: he is a true communist and not anything else! He is the Communist as we know him in the countries of the East. What does that mean? He uses the mechanism of amalgam: because one person knows another person and that other person has done a bad act, necessarily the first person is necessarily accomplice. Did you see the film L'avête, brilliantly performed by Yves Montand? That's exactly what you're reproducing. I feel like you came out of Prague in 1950!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u61	Mr Flahaux, thank you for this brilliant speech. To go in your direction, there is a question to ask, not anomaly. What are the relations, what are the conflicts of interest between the political and economic world? We do have an Armand De Decker who, in the Chodiev file, works for Nicolas Sarkozy. There is also a great proximity between Armand De Decker and Didier Reynders, on the one hand, and between Nicolas Sarkozy and Didier Reynders, on the other. Didier Reynders is on this axis between Sarkozy and De Decker and it is precisely Didier Reynders who pushes Parliament to introduce the extended criminal transaction. In this context, one wonders whether it is possible that Didier Reynders is not aware that a criminal transaction could save Chodiev. I think the probability is 1/10 000 that he doesn't know. There is no black-on-white evidence, but I think Mr. Clarinval's theory of coincidence is not working. There is also this thesis that several members of the majority have advanced. For them, the proof that the criminal transaction is not adopted to settle a particular case (whether it is diamond or Chodiev), is that it has been linked to the issue of bank secrecy. This is evidence that the law was not passed for a particular case. Yet, this does not invalidate anything. A coupling took place. Didier Reynders asked for this coupling. It doesn't show anything. On the contrary, I would even say that this linkage is the best way to pass a law quickly under natural appearances. The proof is the diamond attorneys who give it to us, since we have the e-mails where they explain this strategy. We obviously don't have that for Didier Reynders. They put this black strategy on white and we find it in the report. Axel Haelterman sent an e-mail on 22 November 2010 to AWDC. He said: "I noted that the PS and sp.a have introduced a new proposal to Parliament to amend the rules of bank secrecy. This offers the opportunity to link everything in a package where each party would get something it wants." Seeing that bank secrecy arrives on the carpet, he sees there the opportunity to save the diamond-makers, which we could very well do on the Kazakh side as well. Finally, it is Didier Reynders who gives the impetus to the decisive moment. But the political friends of the diamondmakers on the CD&V side and the Open Vld will not oppose it. I will not go back to the fact that the coupling was not earlier, which some members, like Yves Leterme, claim. Later, there is this pressure from Didier Reynders on the Senate to go faster. Since things are not moving quickly enough, pressure continues. Also comes the rather incredible episode of the meeting between Mr. Reynders and Mrs. Degoul. We are invented that it was intended to settle the Bemba case and that it had nothing to do with the Kazakhgate and Chodiev, which is hard to believe. Again, you have to believe Didier Reynders on your word!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u62	Mr Van Hees, can you tell us when this meeting took place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u63	What does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u64	It took place after that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u65	So what?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u66	It's just so you know that this meeting took place after. It was probably to prepare what had happened three years earlier!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u67	No, it was about payment issues. In conclusion, it can be said that the extended criminal transaction law is the result of a holy alliance of political forces defending private interests. The friends of the diamondmakers ploughed the ground. The friends of Sarkozy and the Kazakh mafia have sown. And it was together that they reaped the fruits of this long-term work. Indeed, it was already a short time ago, in any case on the diamond miners' side, that we were working on this kind of proposal. I don't think we can talk about a state case. I think it's worse than that. It's a corner of the hidden face of the capitalist system, actually. It's not about malfunctions. The dangerous links between capital and the political world are part of the classical functioning of the capitalist system. In fact, we can say that Didier Reynders is a goldsmith. But I'm not going to come with all the examples I could give. If you're interested, I can, Mr. Clarinval. Traditional parties are the bearers of an economic power whose crime is simply a way of enrichment among others. This is partly demonstrated, and could have been better demonstrated, by the information contained in the report on which we will have to decide tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u68	Colleagues, according to tradition, is the last word for the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. I call Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said by several colleagues. Sixteen months of hard work has been done on the committee. A word of thanks is in place, first of all to the two secretaries, Catharina Offeciers and Karin Huybens, and the people who stand behind them, but also to other services of the Chamber. The interpreters have had a lot of work to do. The translation services had a lot of work to do. Legal has had a lot of work, like the messengers. It has already been said by others: a special word of thanks to the staff is also in order. They had to help cope with the disappearance of two experts. A word of thanks goes to my own staff, but also to the staff of all Parliaments. So far, I have spoken as chairman of the committee. Now I'll answer as a sp.a. If you are the only member of your group to be chairman of a committee of inquiry, you have to play a double role, even a schizophrenic role, in which, on the one hand, the views of the party are expressed and, on the other hand, its role as chairman. I will not list all the reasons why I do not agree with the report. I will try to justify the fact that we have submitted an alternative report. I will start with a long list, a selection from the report. I don't pretend it's complete. I know we share some of those points, but we do not share most of them. It is precisely on that whole that we have tried to answer through the alternative report. Colleagues, I will begin with a selection of the report. That the Minister of Justice says to the prosecution that it has to sit at the table with the diamondaires in order to reach an agreement on a law with which the diamondaires can live: who thinks that's normal? That the public prosecutor then asks representatives of the diamond industry to use his lobbying machine to promote the proposal for an extended friendly settlement among politicians: who thinks that's normal? That a bill on such an extended friendly settlement is discussed at a working group of the College of Attorneys General on the basis of a text from one of the lawyers of the diamond sector: who thinks that is normal? That, after the intervention of the Minister of Justice's cabinet, that diamond lawyer is also invited to that working group of the College of Attorneys General to discuss the preparation of the legislative text: who thinks that is normal? That in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative text delivered to the Minister of Justice's cabinet, there was an "intense consultation with the diamond sector in preparation for this law," but that these passages were subsequently removed from the draft text by the cabinet: who thinks that is normal? That, in the second half of 2010, the diamond sector faces some major fraud cases and develops the strategy to convince the policy to link the extended friendly settlement to the containment of banking secrecy, and that this ultimately happens: who thinks it is normal? That in December 2010 N-VA chamber member Jambon established the diamond club and only three months later approved the most important demand of the diamondaires of recent years, namely the extended friendly settlement: who thinks that is normal? That, on behalf of the Élysée, a team of lawyers is set up to help Mr Chodiev with his problems with the Belgian court and that Armand De Decker, as a member of that team, contacts with Advocate General Patrick De Wolf of the Brussels parquet, the Minister of Justice, Stefaan De Clerck and his staff, not only to discuss the ongoing judicial procedure but also to discuss a possible legislative amendment: who thinks that is normal? That a Minister of Justice is aware of attempts to intervene from abroad and does not report this to the public prosecutor, nor to the security of the State, which, however, both fall within his competence: who thinks that is normal? That in the flow of information received from the AWDC, a sudden interruption is observed between 5 December 2010 and 1 May 2011, and that the Committee of Inquiry is making peace with the search operation carried out by the AWDC, under the control of a bailiff, while all the evidence indicates that this is the crucial period in which the 2009 bill that was passed down was brought back to life: who thinks that is normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u70	First of all, a report drawn up by a bailiff, a sworn official, are you simply questioning? You don't seem to think it's normal. We do, but you don't. Second, about the diamond club. I understand that you do not think that is normal, but what stupidities have we not been in our group, Mr Van der Maelen? Jambon sets up a diamond forum to lobby, so that the law, the most important demand of the diamond sector, will come about. We do this publicly, we write to everyone and say to the whole public: look, we are going to lobby for the diamond sector, and then we are going to vote against? That's super strong, isn't it? Who thinks that's normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u71	Mrs. De Wit, I'll start with that last one. I don't dispute the fact that that bailiff did a good job. The bailiff found that the AWDC carried out a search together with a firm hired by the AWDC. You have read the report, as have I. That search yielded 91 hits under the name of Haelterman and/or Verstraeten. Next, the AWDC itself, the bailiff, said that these hits had nothing to do with the research mission of the Committee of Inquiry. Do you just accept that? We have a continuous flow of information, but for the period from 15 December to 1 May we have absolutely nothing at all, while you and I know that Mr Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten have carried out activities, including their presence at a committee meeting in the Senate on 22 March. Mr Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten have billed the AWDC. The invoices of Mr Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten all fit in with the order of the AWDC regarding the friendly settlement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u72	Again, at the very beginning we received a very thick package from the AWDC...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u73	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u74	...with incredibly interesting e-mails from Professor Haelterman, who at times were even somewhat disenchanting. We read with whom he had contact, who he tried to convince, we got information about the lightning rod and so on. With what interest would no further information be provided, knowing that the investigating judge who accompanied us had also asked us by letter to provide information? You asked the question to go further, to proceed with a search. I mean, that would've been great, wouldn't it? We've gotten all that information in advance. We didn't get that information, and it was tough, everything was just put on the table. But all of a sudden, they'd hold things back? That would be too crazy for words, wouldn't it, Mr Van der Maelen? Moreover, the investigating judge who accompanied us said that if we did that search, we would be doing phishing, that this was really a risk. As a lawyer, I find that a bit delicate. Moreover, I have tried to explain this to you in committee, and it happens all the time. I've had files like this in my life as a lawyer. Files are handled, but in a certain period of time it is quiet and no mails or letters are exchanged. It happens. You can do that. And providing negative evidence is very difficult in that respect. But after they put so much on the table, formulate such suspicions, I disagree. But we will probably never agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u75	We will never agree on that. I repeat, Mr Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten were billed during that period. If they bill, they have therefore engaged in activities. And I assume that Mr Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten are so correct with regard to the AWDC that they only bill when they have done something. We would have had the simplest and greatest certainty if we had sent the Federal Computer Crime Unit there and had them searched. You didn't want that. I have to accept that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u76	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u77	I just wanted that. You now require me to speak on matters from the secret meeting. But come, no problem, I want to take that responsibility. But I don't think this is normal. I do not think it is normal for a committee of inquiry to take the further steps to try to fill that gap with the greatest possible certainty. I will continue my speech. That an amendment was tabled and adopted in the Finance Committee, while the Justice Committee was responsible for this matter and the authors were aware of it in advance: who thinks this is normal? Neither do you. Me neither. I have just said that we agree on some points and we do not agree on others. That the two Dutch-speaking professors who were invited to a hearing in the Senate about this change of law are just the professors who have been lobbying for years as a lawyer for the diamond sector in connection with this law: who thinks that's normal? That Mr Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten, who were appointed by the AWDC in 2007 to lobby for the extended amicable settlement, were involved in the whole process of drafting the law, starting with the preparation of the preliminary draft law in 2007-2009 until the final treatment in the Senate, who thinks that is normal? That Mr Verstraeten negotiates with the parquet during the drafting of the law on the extended friendly settlement and after the adoption of the law to conclude concrete friendly settlements for his clients-diamondaires: who thinks that's normal? Although he was already aware of Armand De Decker's mission on behalf of France at the beginning of 2012, the administrator-general of State Security did not inform the public prosecutor. Who thinks that's normal? When the Minister of Justice is informed at the end of December 2014, his only response is: "Keep following developments in France and keep me informed." So he himself does not take the step to warn the public and waits months with it. Who thinks that's normal? That a French lawyer, her client Chodiev and members of the French government are aware of the advent of a Belgian law, even before it is discussed in Parliament and before usually well informed MEPs like myself and others know: who thinks that is normal? That the Minister of Justice had asked the College of Attorneys General to wait for the law to be applied pending a repair, but that they made an exception for two cases: who thinks it is normal? That the Minister of Justice did not do anything about it when they informed him of it, who thinks it is normal? That Mr Chodiev, even before the law came into force, through his lawyers at the courthouse insists on a friendly settlement and that his lawyers even insist on getting that friendly settlement by the end of June 2011, who thinks that's normal? That a friendly settlement is being negotiated, as we have established with regard to the settlement for Mr Chodiev, who thinks that is normal? That the file Société Générale was advanced, ready for prosecution and without risk of limitation, but that was nevertheless chosen for an amicable settlement: who thinks this is normal? That that bank will get rid of paying a symbolic sum of EUR 2 750, who thinks that's normal? That the entry into force of the repair law was necessary to enable a friendly settlement to be concluded for falsehood in writing one of the charges in the file Chodiev.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The fact that Mr De Decker is knocking on the door of documents, most likely from the Belgian State Security Department, to resolve a dispute within the law team, who thinks that is normal? This was recorded in the French Légion d'Honneur shortly after the friendly settlement for Mr Chodiev, Mr Winants together with Mr Etienne des Rosaies, in the presence of Mr De Decker. That in the period 1996-2015 the anti-money-laundering cell reported to the Brussels Office about ten files relating to one or more of the persons concerned in the Chodiev file, but that most of these CFI reports were classified to the parquet without result, who thinks that is normal? Colleagues, I could go on for a while. What we regret to note, however, is that this committee, together with the seventeen of us, has come a long way with regard to the findings, but that, when it came to making recommendations, the majority did not come home. That is why we have prepared an alternative report. I will not discuss all the points in our alternative report, but I will confine myself to what I think is very important for this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u78	Mr Van der Maelen, I am glad that you have made a whole list of "who thinks that's normal?'. As a member of the committee, I would like to add a few more. You have said that we agree on a number of points, of course not on others. I would like to add three more points. A witness who makes statements under oath, in which at the end you say you don't believe him, who thinks that's normal? If the chairman is instructed by a committee of inquiry to file a complaint against the many leaks and the chairman simply ignores that question, who thinks that is normal? If the chairman of a POC, a parliamentary committee of inquiry, ignores the report of his own committee and is approved before this report is a report of his own, who thinks it is normal? I understand that you say that you disagree with many things, but you must also dare to ask them. Who thinks this is normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u79	I won't be able to remember them all. If I forget one, tell me. For starters, the complaint. The complaint was forwarded to the President of the Chamber the last time. I hope that the argument I have given has led to the decision. My argument was that that complaint had to be examined by the Brussels Public Prosecutor. The law on the committee of inquiry is clear. However, the Brussels court was very closely involved in this dossier by the activities of an Advocate General, who made the settlement and as a witness before our committee, and by another Advocate General, who received a donation. It would therefore be highly inadvisable for Brussels to have the opportunity to look into all the documents of the Committee of Inquiry. On that basis, I received a signal from the services of the Chamber, the penultimate time, that we would not forward that complaint. The last time, at our last meeting or at our penultimate meeting, that problem came up again. At that time, I gave the same argument again, and no one has asked for that complaint to be lodged. The committee clearly decided not to file a complaint at that time. You had other things you said you didn't think were normal? I know. In the last week, the majority decided that we would no longer hold public committee meetings in which we could have held the political debate together. The majority voted, and then they lose. What did I do after I saw that after Wednesday's sitting two members of the committee had responded in the press on the first part that we had finished? I waited until we finished voting that Wednesday. Everything was voted on. Only the final vote on the whole had to take place on Friday. I, the findings, the assessments and the recommendations were voted on. The same applies to hatch II and to hatch III. The committee had taken a position except for that one overall vote, which is a formality. I have pointed out to you today too that there is no chance of an alternative report being published properly. I decided to hold a press conference on Thursday 3rd. I didn't take anything from the report, but I didn't take anything from it, although the report was already in place and it wouldn't change anything. I have defended our own position. I have that right. There was a third point you asked who thought was normal. I want to answer that, but I can't remember. I repeat that we agree on some of the points I have listed and we do not agree on other points. I shall now confine myself to what I consider important for the functioning of Parliament. I'm repeating myself. Mr Delpérée and other Members have already mentioned it. What concerned me the most and what still worries me now is this. We are Parliament. We approve a law. A law is the highest standard in our society after the Constitution. The way in which decisions are taken on this legislation must be free from external influences which cannot be democratically justified. I mean, for example, a foreign state trying to influence legislation or a strong economic actor who manages to steer the legislative process. There must be certainty about that. We don't have that certainty. I am even more concerned now than 18 months ago when we started the committee of inquiry. After all, I see the influence the diamond sector has had on the implementation of the law in question, something I would not have dared to suspect in the distance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u80	All well and good, you ask who thinks that is normal, but I would like to get an answer from you to the essential question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u81	What's the question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u82	I will repeat that question for you. It is the question of our committee of inquiry, which I quote: "Was the law on the extended friendly settlement voted in 2011 with the aim of solving the legal problems of Chodiev in Belgium?' What's your answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u83	My answer is that the action of the diamond industry, together with the prosecution, has brought about a law that was used by Mr Chodiev's law team.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u84	So that law was not adopted with the aim of solving Mr Chodiev's legal problems. That answers the question. He used it, but the law was never approved for the purpose of solving his problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u85	No...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u86	That's the answer! Please admit that honestly in plenary. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u87	No, the honest answer is that we have no hard evidence. You know the history as well as I do. In October 2009, the work on the legal text stopped and there was no movement for a year. In the autumn of 2010, we see that the diamond sector is getting back on track because of all kinds of new fraud cases. The diamond industry is starting to push to bring the dormant initiative, the bill in question, back to life. We also see activities emerging from France. We know that Didier Reynders is the first politician to instruct his employees on 24 November 2010 to make a link between banking secrecy and a law on friendly settlement. We do not yet know how heavy the diamond sector has weighed on this, but I will come back to that at the end of my speech. I have heard that many people expect something from the Belgian judicial investigation, but I think that I hope we can expect a lot from the French judicial investigation too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u88	You need many words to say something, but at least it has not been proven, that is my contention, that this law has been adopted with the aim of solving the legal problems of Chodiev in Belgium. That's not proven. You say there's no hard evidence. I don't even find soft evidence. The insinuations that continue to be expressed to, for example, Minister Didier Reynders, are, in my opinion, inappropriate. There has been a lot of speculation about that. You have also made all kinds of statements about this, in many magazines. I have put the man in question, like other ministers, including former Prime Minister Leterme, to clear questions. I have to be honest. You've seen me in these hearings. I'm someone who interrogates people a charge and a charge, and if I don't find any evidence, those people are free of charge to me. We must therefore have the courage to come to that conclusion. What you are saying about the diamond sector and Mr Liégeois, I said just now in the chair, even before you came to the chair. Who thinks that's normal? I've told you all the things I don't think are normal. I told it here in plenary. In fact, at some point, I have described them as unacceptablely scandalous. But connecting everything and making it an amalgam, Mr van der Maelen, is far too much. The essence is that the reason for our committee was the Chodiev affair and that we have to note that that law was not created to serve Mr Chodiev. That is the reality. If you were to say that this is right, you would be clear for once. But unfortunately, you don't want to do that, because it doesn't fit in with the story you brought from the beginning, which is that this is a state matter. If this were a state matter, Mr Van der Maelen, there would probably have been three to four times more parliamentary Members here and then it would have been full of press. Look at the interest today. That is the reality. The case has been told and so it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u89	You're not gonna convince me, and I'm not gonna convince you. I say to you, let us wait for the outcome of the judicial investigations, the Belgian and the French, perhaps we will find out more. You're saying you also said this isn't normal. You have even said that it is unacceptable. But drawing conclusions from that, you don't. The first question after the whole process is the following: how does the 2011 law evaluate the extended friendly settlement? I have heard all the members of the majority say that something went wrong here and there. It was not in the right committee; it would be good if the amendments were to receive an opinion from the Council of State. You go that far, but you don't go as far as the Supreme Court of Justice. Our alternative report states that everything starts with that. If one looks at such a process, what is your assessment of the final product, the law that lies there? In your eyes, there's nothing abnormal about that, except a corner down here and there. I'm reading what the Supreme Court says about that final product, the 2011 law. You voted it out on the committee. What I will now read is not the most individual expression of the sp.a, but a quote from the Supreme Court of Justice on the law of 2011: "The content and implementation in 2011 of the extended friendly settlement may have damaged citizens' confidence in justice, because the extended friendly settlement also allows major fraudsters to avoid a court trial against payment of a sum of money and because the 2011 laws were introduced without thorough social and parliamentary debate." At that time, the Supreme Court of Justice expressly opposed this procedure. Furthermore, the Hoge Raad gives detailed criticism of the 2011 Act: "It is not motivated and its content"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the criticism of the Supreme Court of Justice of the final product of 2011. These last points, with the exception of the judicial review, which is not there, have all been raised at the request of the diamond sector. The Supreme Court didn't even know that yet. They have far less information about the origins than we do. Nor has the Council seen how the AWDC, the diamond sector, has weighed on the political decision-making process. However, he is much sharper in his judgment than you are. I understand that we should not be too critical about this, because otherwise that raw material would have been given to the other colleagues in the committee, who could have gone further in terms of appreciation and recommendations. The report that you will be voting for tomorrow will therefore remain a long way from the harsh judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice as far as that point of the law is concerned. However, that is not an opposition body.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u90	In the meantime, of course, we all know what your intention is, Mr Van der Maelen. You're very hard on that law. You're trying to use every means you can to throw that law in the garbage can and classify it. We've known that from the beginning. We've known that for years. The point is that the committee was not set up to make an assessment of the law. We've told you that dozens of times. Yet you try to do that over and over again. The point is that I repeat the essential question of the committee, but you are avoiding the fact that it was a question of whether that law was passed with the aim of resolving Mr Chodiev's problems. The answer to that is no. You can't get past that. You will try to find other traces of thought that might indicate influence, which I do not deny. The essence, however, is, as I have told you, that the most important influence on this legislation does not come from the diamond sector, which has helped to do so. We know that. The main influence, however, comes from the Justice Department, Mr Liégeois. He's the lead author of everything that's happened. He's even proud of it. He said in a popular newspaper, the Gazette of Antwerp, that the friendly settlement had to be greatly expanded for every trial. He is the promoter of the extended friendly settlement. It is true that the diamond sector has gone along with this and has used it conveniently. That is the reality. As Mr Massin said, tree seeds were planted from Mr Liégeois. The diamond industry liked that and poured water on it. Thereupon a tree began to grow, of which Chodiev, who passed by, picked the fruits. That's how it happened. Of course that is annoying, but saying that this has happened to serve Mr Chodiev, I have found no evidence of that, neither soft nor hard. You didn't find that either. Why don't you just admit it today, for God's sake? That would be a credit to you as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u91	Mr. Vincent Van Quickenborne is rewriting history. For the Franchimont Act in 2007, Mr Liégeois did indeed come to Parliament and made a plea for the extended friendly settlement. But neither the Chamber nor the Senate roasted his herring. That's when he drew the short straw. The political world has replied 'no' to him. In the summer of 2007, the diamond sector started to beat Verstraeten and Haelterman on the nail of the extended friendly settlement. So it's the diamond sector that's made the politics go away. That's when cooperation between the diamond sector and the prosecution began. In that order, it happened. You do not like to hear it and you will never admit it, but it is the diamond sector that has demanded and obtained the extended friendly settlement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u92	Now Mrs De Wit has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u93	Mr van der Maelen, I would like to take your last statement immediately. After all, what I wanted to give was already excellently expressed by Mr Van Quickenborne. I couldn't bring it any better. Mr van der Maelen, you say that this is how it happened, but you forgot something, namely the 2004 judicial dialogues with Fred Erdman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u94	Are you there again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u95	You don't like hearing that either. However, if we start in this way, I will participate. The extended friendly settlement has been discussed for a very long time. The fact that different parties wanted that arrangement is obvious. It concerns professors, lawyers and certain actors. The law has come, too. However, you are now claiming that this law specifically came at the request of the diamond sector and only for that purpose. That's not right. The extended friendly settlement was a committee recommendation on tax fraud. They were already working on it in 2004. Members of this House put forward proposals at that time. Nor does the Supreme Court claim that it was at the request of the diamond industry. That's not in there. The Supreme Court criticises and is not pro the law. It's everyone's right to be pro or counter. You can find whatever you want. At some point one has to lay one's egg. That's a fact. It's a solution to a problem. She may not be ideal, but you shouldn't change the chronology and try to explain something like it's different. Besides, it doesn't add up. Let's take a closer look at the chronology. You want to move on to the diamond lobby and to the forum of Jan Jambon, and point out that the law came three months later. As I said a moment ago, we, the N-VA, were fat idiots in that case, because we voted against the law. However, it seems that we have now become even more ignorant and have learned nothing. During the present legislature, the scope of the law on the extended amicable settlement has been reduced. Whose question did that happen? Wasn't that the idiots who lobbied for the diamond, huh? Mr van der Maelen, you must not try to see ghosts that are not there. It is what it is. Don't always try to strengthen your story, because it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u96	It's true, I'll prove it to you immediately. First of all, have you looked at the text of the judicial dialogues? It clearly only calls for a minimum adjustment, in the margin, not at all comparable to the very large expansion, which came under pressure from the diamond sector with the aid of the prosecution in 2011. Secondly, I will prove you wrong for a second time. If the judicial dialogues in 2004 were so convincing, would it have been easy for Mr Liégeois to get through the big Franchimont law debate in Parliament in 2007? He didn't get them through. At that time, politics said no to the large and wide-ranging extension of the friendly settlement. Only under pressure from the diamond industry, with the aid of the prosecution, is politics plundered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u97	One last time, because we're not gonna get out. Professor Verstraeten was the counsel for the AWDC, for which he lobbied and was responsible. If I remember correctly, he said in our committee that the texts that were adopted went beyond what he had written. That is a bad lobbyist. Let's stay serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u98	I just said that myself. I read it to you: "There is no substantive judicial review." I said that's the only point that doesn't come from the diamond sector. That's what I said. You can try to deny the sunlight, but pressure has been exerted from that economic sector, the diamond sector, with the help of the prosecution. The prosecution itself said that it was up to the diamond industry to start its lobbying machine and convince the political world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u99	Mr van der Maelen, I will interrupt you one last time, because we will not be able to agree on the diamond sector. If you're talking about denying sunlight, perhaps we should leave the slopes of the Antwerp diamond sector. You are trying to put things in the diamond sector, but we are each in our position. The decision lies ahead, you have your opinion and I have my opinion. However, let us return to the essence of our mission. In that respect, I think you will recognize the sunlight. Allow me to repeat Mr Van Quickenborne's question: did the law arise at the request of Mr Chodiev and his associates? You're trying to bury things in the diamond story, but can you see the sunlight for the answer to that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u100	On several occasions, even in interviews in mid-2017, I have said that it is clear to me that the law on the friendly settlement of 2011 has come under pressure from the diamond sector and that Mr Chodiev's lawyers team has benefited from it. I will follow Mr Massin's statement. I have already admitted that there is no hard evidence, but there are indications, such as interference from France, about the implementation of that law. I'll list those clues. On January 13, we know from a leak from the Belgian judicial investigation, Armand De Decker had contact with representatives of the parquet. We know that Armand De Decker spoke on 20 February with Stefaan De Clerck, then Minister of Justice, also about the implementation of the law. We know that on 23 February Mrs Degoul spoke in France about the advent of a new law in the presence of Mr Chodiev, Mr Ibragimov and Mr Machkevitch. You knew that, because you were in the government at the time. On 3 February, the government decided that, but we, as Members of Parliament in Belgium, did not know that. Don't act like there's no evidence that the French slopes have allowed influence in the creation of the law. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u101	All parties have heard what you say. They have said that, firstly, Armand De Decker's visit to the Minister of Justice... Do you really believe that Armand De Decker's visit to the Minister of Justice, whom I know well, has had any effect? Do you really believe that? The Minister of Justice came under oath to declare that it had no effect whatsoever. So you think the Attorney General lied? That has had zero effect on that case. Secondly, do you really think that the visit of the law team at the courthouse was a visit to influence the law? That has had zero effect. Thirdly, about the story told by lawyers about how important they were in the trial, I told you that they abused their position as a lawyer to make a lot of money from it, but in the end it turned out there was no effect. I, like all my colleagues here, have in no way seen any indication of influence by the lawyers' team, by France or by anything else in the legislative process, from government to Parliament and in committees. In that respect, you have no clue, no indication, no hard evidence or soft evidence. So stop saying that. We found zero, nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u102	I've just listed them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u103	They've all been rebutted by people under oath on our committee. Everything you say has been rejected under oath. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u104	On the contrary, these contacts were admitted under oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u105	There has been a contact with the Minister of Justice, but he has stated that in no way...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u106	He said the law was being discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u107	There was talk about the law, but is that influencing the law? What a statement is that now, Mr Van der Maelen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u108	He said that. Mr. Ibragimov has... we have been told that Master Degoul and her three clients talked about the law around February 23rd.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u109	Mr Van der Maelen, if you say that Armand De Decker was with Stefaan De Clerck and in the cabinet, did those people say that they would put that law right immediately and make sure that it was passed? No. You can see that machination in the fact that he's been there. That's the big difference between people who declare things under oath and who say what did happen, and the fantasy you invent. That makes the difference between findings and matters that we can agree to and other things that we cannot agree to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u110	I remember very well what De Clerck said about the time when Mr De Decker and Mrs Degoul came to him on 20 February. He said they brought it up. That means they knew there was a law coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u111	And then what?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u112	And then what? That is proof that that French piste knew at least very well that there was a law. I have not yet referred to Mr Maingain's speech. Guéant also proved that he was well aware of the fact that there was a law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u113	Now it's getting interesting. What does that prove in terms of influencing legislation? What's the evidence of influence? That someone knows there's gonna be a law? How does this prove that it has influenced the substance of the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u114	That proves that he or she, or both, are in contact with people who can influence the implementation of that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u115	You have no evidence that these people have influenced the law. It has been claimed that they were aware. Besides, it was passed in the government on February 3rd. That's information circulating at cabinet level. Is it a criminal offense that someone knows that something has been approved at government level? The fact that people tell you that is a criminal offense? Is it a state secret that a government approves anything on February 3rd? In an African country this is probably a state secret, but is it a state secret that we approve on 3 February and that someone says ten days later that the government has approved it? Mr. Van der Maelen, come back with your feet on the ground. That's how democracy works. There's no evidence of interference, so stop machining. I have condemned your French piste, apart from the French, who, through a law team, influence a court case. I have condemned Mr De Decker and he has been condemned here by everyone for all his cures. But stop saying that that law was made for the purpose of helping Chodiev. That's not true. There's no leads. There's no hard evidence. There's no soft evidence. That is the conclusion of this committee with regard to this essential question, with regard to the key question put by this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u116	Well, I am going to tell you once again: this 2011 law came under pressure from the diamond industry with the aid of the prosecution, we are sure, and we have indications that there was a very large and careful follow-up from France to the legislative process. We know that. And that's what I'm saying from the beginning. But you want me to say something else. I'm moving on. I had come up with the fact that the majority in its report takes a position that is far below the opinion, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice. So please do not come here and say that what we are going to write in our alternative report is pure opposition talk. No, we take what a neutral body, which even has much less information than we do, says about that law. This majority does not want to recognise that 2011 law is a legal monster. Until an appeal may approve an amicable settlement, which does not exist in any legally developed state in Western Europe. Perhaps it exists in African countries, as Mr Van Quickenborne said just now. The pendulum went a long way in 2011, under pressure from the diamond sector, with the aid of the prosecution. It was fixed. I do not understand why you do not admit that what was approved in 2011 is a legal monster. It has been partially destroyed by the Constitutional Court and has had to be phased out twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u117	Mr President, perhaps we should return to 2011? Read my colleagues' speeches. In April of that year, I was allowed to give birth to my daughter, one of the most beautiful girls in the world. So I didn't go through that first phase. I've been through the repair law. That has always been our position, which is precisely one of the reasons why we did not vote in favour of this extension at the time. First of all, because of the way things went, the speed. And, secondly, because for us the law went too far in that extended friendly settlement. I can admit that. I just do not understand, Mr van der Maelen, why you continue to say that through the diamond forum we would be the biggest lobbyists of a law that we ourselves consider to be too broad, and on which we subsequently agreed in the government agreement to renew its scope. In the end, I follow you in the view that that law was too broad at the time. Legally, I fully agree with you, including with regard to speed. I do not understand, however, that you continue to draw certain consequences towards certain people, towards certain fora, and towards certain groups. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u118	I repeat, your final judgment on the 2011 law is inadequate. The second and most important question is what we are doing to prevent a repetition of this in the future. We have also debated this and our alternative report has included a different text on this subject. The majority remains in favour of the conclusions of the Working Group on Political Renewal, chaired by Brecht Vermeulen. What does this working group say about the creation of a law and the impact of lobbyists on it? The working group only provides for rules for legislative proposals, not for draft laws. I do not know the figures by heart, but when it comes to laws of some magnitude, about 95% of them will come from the government's initiative and perhaps 5% from legislative proposals. With the law on the extended friendly settlement, we have seen that all lobbying activities did not occur at the time when the amendment came into the Chamber. The lobbying activities had already taken place at the time when the matter was in the hands of the government and the lobbyists of the diamond sector. That is the conclusion that you draw: do not go beyond the Working Group on Political Renewal. Yesterday, the fourth evaluation report was published on the website of the GRECO, a body of the Council of Europe, which evaluates the 2014 recommendations: to what extent has Belgium followed them? The latest evaluation report also included the proposals of the Working Group on Political Renewal. And what does the GRECO say? As far as implementation is concerned, the proposals of the Working Party on Political Renewal are very limited, and globally unsatifactory. In short, overall insufficient. Colleagues from the majority, Mr Van Quickenborne just spoke, and others have said so, of the lobbying activities of the diamond sector. And they're not bad. I counted them, Mr Becq. According to everything we know, not the 91, but in the period from 15 December to 1 May, there were 39 contacts between Haelterman and/or Verstraeten and CD&V. They have seen the party chairman, they have seen the minister, they have spoken with the Secretary of State, they have seen parliamentary groups and a group leader, they have seen the study service of CD&V. That is quite different from what I heard here earlier: Greenpeace is coming here too. Yes, I know you don't like hearing it, but Greenpeace won't have 39 contacts, from the top of a party to that party's study department. They will not have that, but the diamond sector looked at its problems in 2007 and said: what do we need? An extended friendly settlement. One, two, three, four, and they got it through. Thanks to... I have not yet counted the contacts with other parties, which they have also had. Because I immediately saw that most of them took place at CD&V. You were unlucky enough to deliver the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. I know all that. But I am not so much concerned with CD&V, I am concerned with the lobbying power of the diamond sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u119	Mr Van der Maelen, at the time when a party supplies the Minister for Social Affairs, the pharmaceutical sector will also very often ask to be in touch with it, from the level of the Minister on the Secretary of State to the Members of Parliament. You say CD&V was unlucky to deliver the Minister of Justice. We say: we were lucky enough to deliver the Minister of Justice, to be able to change things effectively that can lead to greater efficiency. Insinuating that all this is linked to CD&V is not correct and you know it yourself. You know that this has to do with the fact that at the time we were pursuing policies, that at that time we were still a strong party in the whole. At the same time, as was said earlier, we were still in a free zone. There were then discussions on the left side of CD&V and the right side of CD&V. I can imagine that one then tries to contact as many people as possible, not only within CD&V but at all levels. What you forget throughout this discussion is that at regular intervals and by different people in this story of the friendly settlement it has been said that it is not just about texts coming from the diamond sector or from the pen of Verstraeten or Haelterman. No, Mr Verstraeten himself said that this was not his text, but that, fortunately, it went far beyond what he dared to propose. Furthermore, a regulation which does not apply only to one sector has been explicitly chosen. It's a general arrangement. The VBO and UNIZO were also involved. That's what the parquet confirmed. It is a general text for all sectors, not just for the diamond sector. That the diamond industry lobbied, I don't think anyone will deny it. All the other groups that can lobby will do the same, in the sectors, in the ministers, in the MEPs, in the study services that they think they have an interest in seeing them and passing on information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u120	Mr Becq, how can you say that, after 16 months in our committee of inquiry? Do you know that in 2007 Mr Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten drew up a note which they submitted to the CVP study service? In that note they say that they need an extension of the friendly settlement to resolve the problems, including in the Monstrey fraud files in Antwerp. The gentlemen asked for an extended friendly settlement, not just one, but one in four points. At the end of the trial, in 2011, a law containing these four points will be passed. I admit that one point was added at the request of the prosecution, which did not want a judicial review of the amicable settlements that the prosecution concluded with defendants. That last element is the only difference. You say that all kinds of others have lobbied, but I do not know any lobbyist so strong that he can define what he wants at the start and obtain it at the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u121	Mr Van der Maelen, I will not go back to it. I'm establishing a very selective reading. You'll blame us for that, too. We'll tell you that. The story you started with, however, was about a different proposal than the friendly settlement, namely about the attachment. And that is the one proposal that has seen the light of day but which has never been voted on here. That was what they initially asked for. Something else came up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u122	It is wrong again, because in the memorandum of the AWDC there are two proposals, but the most important one is the extended friendly settlement, they say. That's literally in the memorandum. That was their first and biggest question. The other thing they wanted, too. I'm going to my last point. It is about, as others have already said, the simultaneous existence of a committee of inquiry and a judicial inquiry. That brings with it certain problems. But this also brings benefits, because we have to admit that a parliamentary committee of inquiry does not have the means at its disposal to settle a case. There are a number of points, particularly in the French slopes, where we have not gone far, for the simple reason that we have not been able to hear too many witnesses from France. So there are still gaps. We even know some of those gaps. Let me now read you a statement from businessman Guy Vanden B. erghe, een zakencompagnon van mevrouw Degoul: "Ms. Degoul was going to see De Decker lobbyist who opened all the doors to him. It seems to me that she was connected with De Decker directly from Paris to Brussels, by telephone, between counterparts of the same level: Guéant pour la France and Reynders pour la Belgique." Unfortunately, Mr Vanden Berghe died. So we will not be able to get any more clarity about this. I hope we'll get some clarity on the story of the money courier Lambert. We know from reliable leaks that it sounds strange that Mr Lambert has been to a law firm in Brussels twice and has been given covers there, which he had to distribute. He says he doesn't remember when, where, and to whom he gave those covers. I hope that the French research will shed light on this. There is one rule in judicial investigations: follow the money. That can be seen ready. Finally, I hope that there will be more clarity about the contacts between Mr Reynders, Mr De Decker and Mrs Degoul with a view to paying the members of the Élysée team. Minister Reynders admitted that he saw Mrs Degoul in the Senate on 2 February at Armand De Decker's office and that Mrs Degoul, Mr Reynders said, wanted to see him at that time with regard to Bemba and that he received a letter which he delivered to the Minister of Justice. We've all checked that out. That's right. However, what the majority did not want to include in the report, although we asked questions in committee, is the fact that on 4 February an e-mail from Mrs Degoul left for the Élysée, in which she wrote that she had spoken about the problem of fees with 'une haute autorité en Belgique'. We also know that in April a letter from Mrs Degoul went to the Élysée again on the same problem, with in cc Armand De Decker and Didier Reynders. Minister Reynders has declared that he never saw that letter. These are three elements on which we have not been able to understand, because we have not been able to hear Mrs Degoul. I hope that the French judicial inquiry will make progress in this area. Finally, for Belgium, I was very critical of the approach of the Brussels parquet, which worked very slowly and did not really dig deep. There were even rumors that French researchers were wondering if the Belgians showed enough commitment. My experiences and contacts have taken place within the legal and constitutional framework. I was not told any confidentiality, but everything indicates that Mons is now very serious about the matter. I hope that they will overcome gaps that we have not been able to fill. This leads me to draw your attention to the fact that, in the alternative report which we are going to put to the vote tomorrow, we are proposing that the work of the committee be resumed as soon as the results of the judicial inquiry in France and Belgium are known. In this way we can see whether it does not contain elements that could be important for the proper functioning of Parliament and, above all, to prevent us from experiencing what we have been through, namely that legislation is produced in Belgium under external, non-democratic influences. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip225x.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of a good debate. I am a little out of character when I say that it is a pity that so few Members of this Chamber have followed the debate, but this is simply an observation. At the end of the discussion of the report, the following motions were tabled: - a first motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen. A second motion was tabled by Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr David Clarinval and Mr Conseil Degroote, Mrs Sophie De Wit, Mr Gillet Foret and Mr Werner Janssen, Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne. - a third motion was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Eric Massin. - a fourth motion was tabled by Mr Francis Delpérée. In conclusion to the discussion of the report, the following motions were tabled: - a first motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen. - a second motion was tabled by Mrs Sonja Becq, MM. David Clarinval and Koenraad Degroote, Sophie De Wit, MM. Gillet Foret et Werner Janssen, Mme Goedele Uyttersprot et MM. Vincent Van Peteghem et Vincent Van Quickenborne. - a third motion was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and Mr. Eric Massin. - a fourth motion was tabled by Mr. Francis Delperée. These motions will be voted on later. These motions will be voted on at a later stage. The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 April 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 26 April 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
