ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u2	Mr President, you have noticed that many groups, mainly opposition groups, have raised questions about the government's position on the Marrakesh declaration. The majority groups did not put any questions to this effect, but Mr De Roover just behind the chair at Villa Politica made tough and tough statements, in particular that the N-VA does not really want to sign that declaration. Hence our group's question to turn the oral questions into a topical debate in such a way that all the groups, including Mr De Roover's, can take the floor. After all, I would like that important debate to take place in the hemisphere and not in front of Villa Politica's cameras, so that the Prime Minister can see for himself what his coalition partner is saying about this. I would therefore like to put that question to everyone and everything in a topical debate rather than fighting it out in the corridors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u3	Mr Calvo, I understand the spirit of your comment, but you know that no one in this House can be forced to express an opinion on anything. Moreover, you know as well as I do that we do not have a formula of topicality that brings significant added value. That is why I propose that we stick to the agenda that has been agreed. Everyone is, of course, free to make statements outside the hemisphere; you have every sympathy for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u4	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u5	In the meantime, you have said this, and I understand your comment, but we are referring to nine questions put together by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u6	Prime Minister, last week I was all alone here asking questions about the subject. Today, nine MPs from different parties raise the same theme. Opposition seems to work, especially when it comes to immigration, Mr Francken. We write May 2018. Secretary of State Francken and Deputy Prime Minister Jambon are moving to Marrakesh to sign the Marrakesh Declaration. There's no dirt in the air. However, it was the forerunner of the global compact on migration, which is being discussed here today and which will be voted on in Marrakesh between 8 and 10 December. On 27 September, a few months later, there was a speech at the United Nations by the Prime Minister, who explicitly stated that his country would sign the Global Pact on Immigration in Marrakesh in December. There's still no dirt in the air. We recall that the trial has been going on for two years and the Secretary of State has been silent for two years. There is no mention of the subject anywhere in any working group. The Secretary of State, who is so keen on publicity, is given the opportunity to speak to the United Nations on the matter, but let them ignore you for a moment. In short, it is not a theme, the pact is not important, we are signing the text, everything is fine, until my party puts pressure on it and demands that the text not be signed! It is a free-trade area for more and more illegal immigrants, refugees, transmigrants and foreigners, thus opening the gates of Europe. It is a sort of legal catalogue for all those who want to move towards Europe. And suddenly the Secretary of State is awake. Last week he says that we will not sign the pact. However, his Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jambon, says today that it is a personal position of the Secretary of State and not his. Mr Prime Minister, my question is therefore very simple. You said last week that you intend to sign the text, but that it would be reviewed by the Council of Ministers. What will the government do now? I strongly recommend that you do what Austria, Hungary, Croatia, Poland, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic have already done in the EU and Australia and the United States outside the EU, namely decide not to sign the pact, which freed more and more foreigners from coming to Europe. Have the courage of your conviction, like all those countries, and do not sign the pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u7	Prime Minister, your statements in the rostrum of the United Nations General Assembly in early September were unambiguous about your government's position on signing the United Nations Pact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. This pact was negotiated for more than 18 months by the 193 signatory states of the 2016 New York Declaration on Refugees and Migrants. Your unambiguous stance certainly called for our support, as did most of the democratic parties in this House. Why? Because it is time for international law to set up a legal framework, certainly not immediately binding – but which will gradually become so – so that migration is not, in the end, this phenomenon that has been subjected to the scandals of the international mafias, to those who exploit the misery of the world and even finance their political regime in some cases, especially in less developed countries. It is true that Belgium's fundamental commitment is necessary, as is organizing the right to migrate. International conventions implicitly recognize this because, according to them, one has the right to leave one's country to travel to another State, even if it then returns to one's country. We have to organize this in good order. Moreover, the formula used in the preamble of the pact is very beautiful: "For migration to bring us together rather than divide us." In your majority, obviously, this draft pact divides. Prime Minister, we know that you want to be part of the tradition of multilateralism. The United Nations is the guarantor of that. Will you sign this pact as it stands, without a reservation clause or a restrictive interpretation? If so, will you do so within the time limit? In order not to fall back into the traps of unilateral interpretations, do you undertake to work only for the effectiveness of this pact so that its application is uniform by all signatory States?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u8	Prime Minister, I have not yet had the opportunity to tell you this, but we enjoyed your speech in the United Nations gallery a few weeks ago. If I had been in the room, I think I would have applauded your statements on the climate issue, on the efforts to be made, or on the opportunities to be provided by states to respond to the climate challenge. I even thought that it would change your government's line and that you would finally take bold and visionary action on energy and mobility. Similarly, on the issue of migration – which is essential and is a matter for all the States of the world – even though the UN text can be seen as minimalist, we rejoiced when in the rostrum you said, I quote: "My country will sign in Marrakech, in December, the Global Pact for Migration, a potential step towards a more humane and respectful treatment of the individual freedoms of migration phenomena". But, patatras!, it seems that these minima are still too much for the N-VA, just as it refuses the application in Belgium of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child or ambitious energy and climate targets. And like every time, I'm afraid, it's the N-VA that sets the line. Is it true, Prime Minister, that no agreement on this matter has been reached within the government? Have you committed yourself to the United Nations rostrum without a cover? Who decides in this government? Will Belgium really choose the side of Hungary, Austria and Italy instead of opting for Angela Merkel's courage in the concert of nations on the issue of migration? Will she choose the fold upon herself and a greater inhumanity? Please, Prime Minister, mislead me!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u9	Prime Minister, a strict but just migration policy is the motto of the government and of Secretary of State Francken. If the 2015 migration crisis has made it clear that cooperation between states is absolutely necessary. More and more countries are convinced of this and the United Nations, not the sharpest knife in the drawer, started a negotiation process to reach an agreement note, a global compact. It is a framework of agreements that everyone should keep and that also evaluates on a permanent basis how things work in practice, how a new and better practice can be developed. Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, under the Belgian Presidency, the so-called Marrakesh Declaration was adopted in the context of EU-Africa cooperation. When analysing its content, one can see that it is almost equal to the global compact. Prime Minister, you defended that signature with all your heart, because it was only a political statement, as it is now, because the agreement did not oblige you to have more visas, as it is now, because the agreement was not about returning, as it is now. On 12 September there was a consultation between the federal government and the Länder. All the official bodies working on migration gave their consent. In the meantime, Prime Minister, you have successfully lobbied for a place in the UN Security Council. You made a lot of statements there in New York. I quote: 'My country will sign the Global Migration Pact in Marrakesh in December. This text is a huge step forward. It clarifies the different concepts and leverages organised, controlled management of international mobility." Solving and working together, however, is not the motto of your Secretary of State. Daddy and keeping it wet is. Your Secretary of State still does not realize a new and transparent immigration code in five years' time. He does write a book and states that the issue must be resolved in Europe and at international level. However, when it really needs to be negotiated, he sends his cat or pulls his tail in. My mother would notice: go to war with that!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u10	Mrs. De Coninck, would you like to ask your question now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u11	Prime Minister, for the sake of clarity, some say that what is ahead, naive, unbalanced and migration-promoting. You have replied that this criticism is a short turning point. We are now suddenly following the recommendations of some, Orbán, Hungary and Austria.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u12	Now ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u13	Prime Minister, I have a very short question. What is it now: open and liberal cooperation or closed right?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u14	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you said on 27 September at the United Nations in New York: "My country will sign the Global Pact on Migration in Marrakech in December. This text is a major step forward that clarifies the different concepts and provides a lever for an organized and controlled management of international mobility." I will admit that these are proposals of common sense. Finally, it is a multilateral, international initiative. The United Nations today has great difficulty in taking this kind of initiative in a major area, crucial for the future of the world and our society, although it also divides. But now the infamous Secretary of State, Mr. Theo Francken, tells you, "No, we won't sign." He doesn't even bother to say it himself anymore. He sent his spokesman to say that he would not follow the Prime Minister's statement made in New York on 27 September. What is still the value of Belgium's words in the United Nations? What is your word still worth, Prime Minister, when you are so "tackled" by a member of this government? What is still the value of Belgium's image in an area as crucial as this one? My question is very simple, Prime Minister. Will we sign this pact, which is a fundamental instrument for the future of our societies, in Marrakech on 10 and 11 December? Who will represent Belgium? Will this pact be implemented? It is an important and essential instrument that the international community is implementing to solve this crucial problem for our societies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister: "My country will sign the Global Pact on Migration in December in Marrakech. This text is a major step forward." My colleague, Mr Dallemagne, has just quoted you in full. I agree with my colleague from Ecolo that this text is probably neither perfect nor complete. But we were delighted, Prime Minister, to hear from you. It was September 27th, New York. We were also pleased to read Mr Alexander De Croo, your Minister for Development Cooperation, tweeting that he welcomed and supported this text in response to Austria's position. Last week, the N-VA made a first statement on the migration pact and you took a first small step backwards, since you said in this forum that, on balance, it should still be discussed again in the government, especially with regard to the positioning of some states. Today, for your Minister of the Interior, this is a sensitive subject that needs to be addressed by the government. He says first of all, "There is no position of the N-VA." Then it becomes: "There is no government position." We know in this House that this is beginning to be almost the same thing. On the side of Theo Francken, it is much more radical: "We will not sign this text", preceded by tweets in the wake of the Orban, Trump, Kurz et al., expressing their contempt for the work done for months by the negotiators of the UN countries on a text which, I recall, is not binding but essential for the challenges ahead. These are very different statements on your part in time, but above all quite different in your government. Mr Michel, is there still a Prime Minister in this country who must not change his speech every week because he dances like the N-VA whistles? This cacophony gives the image of a Belgium incapable of holding its position on the international stage. Prime Minister, finally, on whose behalf were you speaking to the UN? On behalf of Belgium, on your own behalf? Be clear: will you, yes or no, sign this pact? Will you, yes or no, force the N-VA to stop calling into question what you have defended on behalf of Belgium at the UN? Are you going to tell them, with pedagogy, why Belgium must engage in this pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will reread your statement, your speech at the United Nations, even if colleagues have already done so. I understand that it may bother you that it is repeated: "My country will sign the Global Pact for Migration in Marrakech in December. This text is a major step forward." On the same day, you added: "Extremists and human traffickers are in the same bag. They are instrumentalizing and fuelling the migration issue. For some, for electoral and political purposes. For others, for low financial purposes." This is your statement to the UN. Who are these extremists? He is the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orban, the Austrian Prime Minister, Sebastian Kurz, the American President, Donald Trump, and, in Belgium, they are all right-wing extremists, like Schild in Vrienden and, it seems, the N-VA, since the spokesman of the Secretary of State said: "We will not sign." However, there are many positive points in this text. I'm not going to list them all. In particular, there is a desire to organize migration on a global scale, as we now see countries like Lebanon hosting millions of refugees. There is also a desire to protect migrants, to save them from death, and also to consider confinement as a last resort, which is clearly a departure from the country's policy. The text also says that migrants must be looked at in a benevolent way, seeing what they can bring us positive, which obviously changes us from the discourse on Mr Franken's racism. Finally, and this should be of particular pleasure to you, Prime Minister, the text also proposes to promote public debate on the basis of scientific evidence, to do fact-checking, which you yourself were defending recently here. Prime Minister, why has Mr Franken never intervened in any of the UN meetings when he and the N-VA are blocking today? Why is there currently a debate in the government, as you have just said, when you have made it clear to the UN that Belgium will sign? Will Belgium finally sign or not? Finally, Mr Prime Minister, are you aware that your commitment to the UN is now being called into question not only by the N-VA but above all by an international campaign of the right-wing Alt-right? Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, a few Members have already mentioned that in September you announced that our country will sign the UN Global Migration Pact, because you mentioned it as a step forward. Anyone can read your announcement, but today there is a great deal of doubt about it. Colleagues, why is there any doubt about that? The answer to that question is actually also in the Prime Minister's speech. Prime Minister, you said in the same gallery that extremists and traffickers are playing the same dirty game, because they are using and feeding migration policy. These extremists include Mr Dewinter and also Secretary of State Francken. Mr Dewinter may be proud to cast doubt on Secretary of State Francken, but unfortunately our Belgian government is also in doubt. I find it difficult to accept the latter, Prime Minister. Mr Dewael, I do not understand the liberal silence in today's debate. Over the past few weeks you have wanted to teach the whole of Flanders about extremism. The barn was too small when it was about a town with 20,000 inhabitants. However, now that our position in the United Nations is under discussion, we do not hear the liberals. Ladies and gentlemen, last weekend, European liberals would save Europe from populism. However, Prime Minister and Mr Dewael, it seems that you cannot control populism in your own government. After all, the N-VA today clearly announces that the UN migration pact will not be signed, according to the spokesman for Secretary of State Francken. Minister Jambon calls it too early to sign that text and he does not really care about your statements in New York. The leader of the group, Mr De Roover, has just reiterated that the migration pact cannot be signed. So, Prime Minister, you seem to have doubts. Looks like you're folding for N-VA and for far right. Ladies and gentlemen, it is more than simply a question of whether or not Belgium is signing the migration pact. It's about the position we take with our country. What is our place in the world, on the international stage? Are we putting ourselves in Europe in Merkel's club, or are we walking on Viktor Orbán's hand? Are we determining the tone ourselves, Mr. Van Quickenborne? Or are our Prime Minister and Secretary of State ready to retweet Orbán and Company virtually or in the facts? In January, our country will become a member of the UN Security Council and we are rightly proud of that. Prime Minister, what the hell will you have to say there if there is any doubt as to what our country will do with the UN migration pact? That is actually the question before us today. Are we a leader in the United Nations or are we members of the united club of populists, thanks to Secretary of State Francken and Mr Dewinter? Prime Minister, I hope you will clarify that today. I believe that our country should be a pioneer in the United Nations. You must therefore give a very clear answer today to the question of whether or not you are signing the UN Migration Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u18	Prime Minister, what happens when your Foreign Minister and your Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration disappear so early in their hibernation? Then they dream of Marrakesh and of that text that they have just lost sight of. For two years! Then they try to save themselves. They say: yes, but that text is not binding. That's right. Only that's not legally relevant. Anyone who says that either knows nothing about the operation of human rights treaties or just wants to tell the people vesicles. How do human rights treaties work? How does one interpret the concept of 'human-demeaning, degrading treatment' in Article 3, which Mr Francken very well knows is very important in migration matters? This is interpreted by looking at what the Member States themselves decide, including what they decide in a non-binding migration pact. Objective 13 of that migration pact states that detention for expulsion can only be a last resort. Then you should not be surprised when a judge comes to judge that detention for expulsion is a inhuman treatment as provided for in Article 3. The same objective 13 states that the aim is not to lock up families with children. So you should not be surprised that on the basis of this objective 13, a judge decides that detention is contrary to Article 3 of the ECHR. The Secretary of State says if we don't, I won't be able to tell anyone. At the same time, however, he has passed that text for two years. That is the reality. At the United Nations General Assembly on 27 September, you said that the migration pact is a step forward. You said it was a lever. You're right, it's a lever. It's a lever to a country without a border, it's a lever to a continent without a border. That's it. My question to you is: what will you do in Marrakesh?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week I had the opportunity to give a few answers to the questions that are being asked again today, with few new elements being added. Two years ago, in 2016, a decision of principle was taken within the framework of the UN to do everything with the prospect of more international cooperation on migration. This is the objective that has been set for regular, orderly and secure migration. It is not a document that condemns the principle of migration, which takes an attitude towards migration; it is a document that attempts to define a number of frameworks, concepts and definitions in order to foster more international cooperation in this field. That's a first point. Secondly, as has been mentioned by Mr Vuye, it is true that, for two years, two levels of negotiation have been undertaken: an international level within the framework of the United Nations that we have followed in the national framework – second level – in a traditional way with what is known as multilateral coordination. Minister De Croo had the opportunity to explain in detail, in committee, the various steps that have been taken. This is a coordination which gives the different departments, the different ministries concerned, but also the federated entities the ability to be fully informed about the various stages and to give their opinion on the occasion of the latter. The text (final version) negotiated at the United Nations was prepared in July. And, at the beginning of September – as I recall, on 12 September – Belgian multilateral coordination (all Belgian authorities) confirmed that it had the capacity to validate this text internationally. In that context, I have indeed spoken in the United Nations rostrum. I persist and sign as I believe that there is a need for more international cooperation on migration. Those are the facts. I want to be clear and transparent. In recent weeks, after the General Assembly, there has been a new element, because not one European country but a number of European countries have expressed doubts and questions, in particular as to whether or not the text is binding and whether it is compatible with the principle of sovereignty in the area of migration. Questions were also asked about other points in the text. It's about a document of about 40 pages. That is why we in the Council of Ministers last Friday decided to give a mandate so that the text could be further worked on at political level. The aim is twofold: a more precise legal analysis of the various questions concerning the interpretation of the text. This work is under way. Our experts are discussing these issues and we will shortly be debriefings, in the context of the Kern meetings, on this legal dimension, in order to assess the consequences of decisions taken on such an important subject. That seems legitimate to me. Then, a second element, essential to me. I am indeed in favour of stronger multilateralism. This is an important challenge for the next few years. We have made a clear choice in this regard. Because we are in favour of more multilateralism, we believe that there is a need for further consultation with our European partners. At this very moment, when in the summer of July an immense majority and even all European countries had given a positive indication of the text except Hungary, I note that there are debates in many European countries and not only in Belgium. You cannot imagine that it is the statement of a Secretary of State in Belgium that has an impact on the debates taking place in other European countries! That's the reality. We are also in contact as the Foreign Minister has instructed our diplomats to clarify positions that are not yet very stable at the moment. To my knowledge, for example, at this very moment, there are fewer than ten countries that have reconfirmed their support for the text. The others are conducting debates. Last night I was in Copenhagen for informal consultations with seven other European prime ministers. I could see once again that there is a debate going on in many other European countries. We will use the next few hours and days to conduct this consultation at European level with our European partners. It would make no sense for the European Union to be divided on the interpretation of this text. It is, on the other hand, perfectly sensible that we agree on it and on the consequences it entails in terms of international and European cooperation. My answer is rather long, but I want to be clear. That is why I would like to make one final point. I would like to thank you, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, for all your wise advice on the rule of law and democracy. Don't hesitate to give them to the sp.a when he joins the left-wing extremists of the PVDA! Don't hesitate! Finally, dear lady, I would like to tell you that when we choose to hold exactly the same speech every week, at the same time – whether we talk about energy, migration, economic development, etc. – and to practice the insult and the attacks ad hominem, we opt for the way of acting populists, demagogues that you love so much to denounce, but whose methods you apply every Thursday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am pleased with your answer, because you are backing back, you are doubting, you do not remember, there is no consensus within your government. The answer you gave to the United Nations, that you will sign this pact, is now turning into an unclear attitude, which hopefully results in the non-signing of this pact. You are spinning around like an eel in a bucket of snot in the hope of getting out of it and perhaps signing the pact on the one hand but, on the other hand, keeping the unity in your government. Don't sign this suicide pact. Let us be clear that it is indeed the Victor Orbáns of Europe today, countries such as Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Croatia and Bulgaria, who are pointing in the direction and who are forcing and confronting you all, including you, Prime Minister, today with the common sense of the citizen. Because the choice we have to make with this Global Compact for Migration, this so-called Marrakech Pact, is simple. Either we opt for this Marrakech Pact and open up Europe's borders as we have never done in the past. Either we do not sign this pact and we close it for once, as Orbán wants and others want it, but above all as the people of Europe want it, the borders of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u21	Prime Minister, I am trying to find myself in the middle of your answer. In short, everything was certain until your statement before the General Assembly of the United Nations. The country's authorities had agreed and correctly understood the text. You could announce your intention to sign it. In September, suddenly, you discover that Europe's most stinking governments have an influence on the Belgian political debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u22	For example, the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u23	The Netherlands, in fact, is not the bravest in terms of immigration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u24	Interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u25	But first I want to talk about those who want to pull Europe down. Because, in the end, the debate is not Belgian. We know what is happening in Belgium, under the influence of your majority partner. We're getting used to this mediocrity. But the debate is European. It is a question of whether we are on the side of those who want the progress of multilateralism or of those who want the nationalist regression. This is the real debate through migration. Now, the debate is not whether there are any interpretations to be given and whether you are going out of your hat a reservation clause or a restrictive interpretation; the question is whether you are taking the pact as a whole or not. In the first option, you must sign it as it is, without reservation, with the will to be at the head of those who want to ensure that multilateralism triumphs in the disorderly world that some seek to impose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u26	Prime Minister, what is the value of a speech in politics? What is your word worth? If you say "without the N-VA," it must be "without the N-VA." If you say "no index jump," it must be "no index jump." If you say, "I will sign this pact in front of the United Nations, after studying it", as you explained in Belgium, it means, "I will sign this pact". You are falling back under pressure from the least democratic states in Europe and from some members of your government. What is happening in this increasingly bipolarized world? There are more and more fearful states and populist leaders to be held accountable by courageous states and visionary leaders. This is not what you do by agreeing to align yourself with the fearful and populists. It is Belgium as a whole that you are committed to while in history we have played a leading role in favour of multilateralism. Beyond Belgium's position, the question of migration arises. It requires more humane and therefore more effective responses. Sign this pact!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u27	Prime Minister, you have replied as an official, a diplomat, a lawyer, but not as a prime minister. You have used your voice to say to others that they are populist, but in fact it was to conceal your impotence. I understand that you do not want a divided Europe, but then you speak very clearly about what camp we are in. Are we among the populists of Hungary, who send all the misery to us? Are we in Britain's camp, which does not take responsibility for transmigration? Or are we still part of the liberal democratic tradition? For the sake of clarity, the migration pact is very similar to the climate agreement, in the sense that we will not find a solution if we do not cooperate. As in the climate debate, the problems do not stop at borders. We will have to work together, if we mean well with everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u28	Prime Minister, don't set a precedent! Do not make sure that, for the first time to my knowledge, the words of a Prime Minister in the rostrum of the United Nations, in this prestigious assembly, would ultimately be contrary to our country's signature at the bottom of this pact. This pact is essential in a crucial and fundamental problem situation that divides our societies. We know how weak the United Nations is today and that some are trying to undermine multilateralism. Don't be in that camp! Respect your word! Respect the Belgian negotiators who have negotiated for two years! Do not be influenced by those countries that sow hatred and division within Europe! I have not heard France, Germany, or most of our neighbours question this pact and have states of soul towards it. Stay in the Belgian tradition with regard to multilateralism! Sign this pact and do not make Belgium's word dubious from now on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u29	Prime Minister, Belgium has an international role to play and, although you seem to have minimized it a few moments ago, this role has been even more important since Belgium obtained a seat on the UN Security Council. But in order to fulfil this important role, credibility is necessary. Unfortunately, Mr Franken is constantly harmed by hateful, xenophobic tweets and his delusional communication. The only real question that arises today, Mr. Michel, is which side of history you want to enter. Are you among those who are seeking common solutions and international cooperation or those who are only running behind the voices of the far right and who want to make us turn into the nationalist and inhuman self-absorbing? Mr. Michel, you seem to have many lessons to teach me. So I'll wait for you and show me which side of the story you'll be entering today!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u30	Prime Minister, it is shameful to try to put on the same footing on the one hand the PTB, which is a viscerally anti-racist party, which is fighting for more solidarity between people and is fighting for social justice, and on the other hand, the whole extreme-right world movement that is disguising hatred and forcing you today to deny your solemn declaration before the United Nations. It's shameful, Prime Minister! You are becoming more and more the carpet of the fachos of this world! But it is time, Prime Minister, rather than addressing the victims, to address the causes of migration. What are these causes? These migrants are fleeing the war, the political chaos in particular because of NATO interventions, including Belgium, which has just purchased F-35s to pursue this policy. Migrants flee the misery caused by the globalized capitalist system, a system in which a child starves every five seconds. That is the reality of this world! This is the reality that migrants flee and that today we want to sweep with a back of our hand under the pressure of the far right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u31	Prime Minister, you may never make history books as the most courageous Prime Minister of this country, but even for you this answer was quite embarrassing. I actually consider it one of the lows of the last four years. You look out at the opposition and try to save your face a little bit, but that way it will only become more embarrassing. For the rest, it is: "Yes, Mr Francken. Please, Mr Francken. Yes, Mr. De Wever. Of course, Mr De Wever." [[noise in the hemisphere]] You have not even been told today that you will simply do what you promised in New York in September and what Mr De Croo announced in this House. Mr Van Quickenborne, Mr Dewael, you find all this very funny, but I really wonder where the liberals have gone in this debate. A whole week of lessons were given, but today people are afraid to get up. I repeat, if you want to save Europe from populism, be more courageous towards Mr Francken. You fear a divided Europe, Prime Minister. Europe is already divided on this issue today. Belgium is at the root of this division and doubt at this very moment. It is true that in other countries too, the debate on this declaration is raging. However, the question is who will be the upper hand. In our country, populism seems to govern your government. We still have time to sign that. Since you do not have the courage and your government is divided, our group will table a resolution in Parliament to send a clear signal to you, together with a social and political majority, that you should sign this pact and that there should be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u32	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to raise three points. Firstly, read the preamble to the migration pact, which refers to the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights: it is therefore quite obvious that this migration pact will be used to interpret that Convention and to interpret concepts such as inhumane treatment. Secondly, I find it very easy to shout and shout here now, when a similar text was signed at the Euro-African summit in Marrakesh in May, and that text has exactly the same consequences as the migration pact. Thirdly, now there's Francken's turn. How tough! What a lie, what a file knowledge! He says we're not signing. Mr Francken, you may yawn, but nothing is signed in Marrakesh. Look at the United Nations resolution 73/308: we are already past that stage. There is a vote in Marrakesh and you will obviously be put in the minority because you have not followed the dossier for two years. There is one bright spot, Prime Minister, that you should contact your European colleagues, as you did in Copenhagen, and try to reach a European consensus. That will then help your Secretary of State, who still thinks he should sign the text and threatens not to do so, when we are already past that stage, perhaps again and then he will be able to thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u33	Mr President, Minister, this summer you announced, with your trade jobs, your intention to reform the rules governing wage developments, to leave seniority for productivity. For you, as for the big boss, experienced workers are too expensive. For you, workers are a cost. For me, not. The worker is an added value; he brings his know-how, his experience to the company. Therefore, why should a worker with more experience earn less? Just because the big boss wants lower wages? For my group, the priority is elsewhere: working conditions, the balance between work and family life with at the centre the human, the worker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u34	Colleagues, there's really too much noise here. That is an absolute lack of respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, yesterday, university professors reminded you that there is no scientific basis for this reform. You're making ideology! These scientists have once again shown that it is not the wages of workers that are the problem; the problem is the unsustainable working conditions in the long term, especially in the least skilled occupations. Minister, with this project, you are at the heart of social consultation. This project amounts to breaking collective bargaining in order to revise wages downwards by placing the worker alone in front of his employer. This is unacceptable! Mr Minister, this fundamental question will be put to the social partners. All that would be missing! You said it, and I'm glad. My question is simple and I would like to have an answer just as simple: can you, yes or no, confirm to me that in the absence of a unanimous agreement from the social partners, you will not proceed alone in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u36	Mr President, over the last few weeks we have been able to hear from the press that the draft law which forms a large part of the measures of the employment deal will perhaps be dealt with by the Council of Ministers next Friday. There will be several KBs, including activation in the end-of-life scheme. Our group naturally welcomes the fact that the measures announced last summer will be effective. There is no doubt that there is a problem with the level of activity of older people in our labour market. The subject of Mr Daerden is very interesting, but what will be discussed next week is something else. The aim is to activate older people who lose their jobs and better guide them to work. Politicians must give the social signal that people aged 55 or 58 are not written off for the labour market and can still be employed. We need to get rid of the older workers. We therefore welcome the measures on SWT, which are now ready for vote and which will then be sent to Parliament. I just ran the numbers on it. When the government took office, 41 percent of Belgians worked in the 55-64 age group. Today, it's almost half. That's still not fantastic, because it can do much better. People do better abroad too. However, it is a substantial increase, with the well-known background in our labour market. In any case, we must continue along this path. There are also the measures related to runways. While it had been hoped that this could be done in stages, the age limit now goes to 60 years. I will not repeat the whole package, it has made enough for the media. Our group is therefore very pleased. However, I do have two specific questions about progress. I heard we're reaching 90 percent, but of course we have to go to 100 percent. How are the regions currently continuing to implement the employment deal? After all, they have an important responsibility in the story. There is also the hot issue of the degressivity of unemployment benefits. Another model would be used within a closed envelope. What can we expect from that in the coming period?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Daerden, I agree with you that the worker has added value. Similarly, I share your view that it should be respected. Like you too, I consider that not only multinationals but also small and medium-sized enterprises are involved. On the other hand, I do not agree with you at all when you feel that we are acting in the name of a negative ideology advocating the reduction of added value, disrespect for workers, etc. That is neither our purpose nor our vision. We continue to work on the implementation of the job deal. Mr Lachaert, we have indeed placed two royal decisions on the agenda next Friday. The Labour Deal Act is also on the agenda. So we are making progress in implementing what was agreed. Although I do not want to anticipate matters, I assume that the government will approve the royal decrees and draft law on the employment deal. In reply to the question of the regions, I can tell you that we have had contacts with the regions, including the community services, which I understand are very close to your heart. I have also talked to the regions about how they will activate those who are currently out of work. This is not just about the unemployed; many inactive people can be given a sustainable job with content. The procedure is in full swing. I hope that we can continue to work together, because the job deal will only succeed if the regions also use their powers and develop the activation. As regards the degressivity of unemployment benefits, I have already mentioned a number of times that I was asked to submit a number of proposals to the government in November 2018. We are today 14 November 2018. So I've got a little time. It's definitely being worked on. Mr Daerden, you mentioned other points that are also very important, such as productivity, etc. I hope you understand that the government's goal is not to cut wages, on the contrary. Nor is it intended to launch certain initiatives or scenarios in order not to value workers in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u38	Mr Minister, I have listened and heard, and I am pleased that you agree with me on the added value of workers, on the importance of their wages, and on the fact that it is not appropriate to take a step to reduce wages. However, accept that I am still sceptical about the intentions – if not yours – of your government. Indeed, when I hear about this deal and all the measures that will be taken, I fear that things will go in that direction. I'm going back to my question, minister. We have found that the government decides by disregarding social consultation on several occasions, and I will not address the issue of pensions, on which I often intervene. You're not gonna do the same thing. I was hoping for a clear commitment from you that you would respect not only the workers, but also social consultation. Once again, you are proposing ideological measures that are harmful to workers, and you are not committed to respecting social consultation. It's disappointing of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u39	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Social dialogue is of course important, Mr Daerden, but if we had to wait every time for a consensus in the social dialogue to bring about reform, I fear that we would not have done much in the last five years. Such reforms are not easy. Sometimes one must dare to swallow a bitter pill for the good of society in the longer term. There'll be more people at work. There will be more revenue in government taxation. In this way, the government deficit can be reduced and surpluses can be built up, so that pensions will remain affordable. The work deal is the perfect example of that. Both employers' and employees' organisations have comments on the employment deal for all kinds of reasons, but that should not prevent us from taking our responsibilities and taking decisions. Mr Minister, I read in the newspaper that in government circles it is said that 90% is ready. The Red Devils once had a coach who said he was 90 percent the builder of the national team. I hope you're not the georges laymen of the labour market, but you're the martinez. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday ING Bank announced a review of its pricing. In this case, as of January 1, 2019, the holders of a Lion Account, a sight account managed online, will be charged a sum of fifty cents when they withdraw money from a ticket distributor from another banking institution. It should be noted that this decision will affect approximately one million holders of this free-of-charge account. This banking institution is not the only one to carry out this type of invoicing, since two other banking institutions already charge, but at much lower amounts, this type of withdrawal - one at ten cents, the other at twenty cents. Banks are justified in citing the cost of maintaining these ticket distributors. The bank reports that it has 1,500 ticket machines in Belgium, distributed in 800 agencies, but it is certain that these 800 agencies are far from covering all the municipalities, all the villages in our countries. This means that there will always be a series of consumers, customers, citizens who will be penalized. This strategy also suggests that eventually ING will position itself in a vision to discourage the citizen from using cash. It is true that today the use of cash continues to decline in favour of digital payment. However, many consumers still want to make their payments in cash and they criticize this measure taken by the ING bank. Therefore, Minister, should this type of action be taken in consultation with regulatory authorities? Have you had any contacts about this? Users who are not satisfied with the banking institution should be able to compare bank charges more easily. To this end, software to compare these costs is being finalized. Can you tell us exactly what is happening? There is, of course, nothing to prevent a consumer from changing banking institutions. However, contrary to the provision for mobile phone numbers, it is not possible to keep the bank account number. What do you think of a measure that would allow the portability of the consumer's bank account number, which would facilitate the change of banking institution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u41	Mr Minister, paying to withdraw his own money is what a number of Belgian banks are currently imposing on their customers. You have to pay when you withdraw your money from vending machines. Whether the cost is ten, twenty, or fifty cents, it's too expensive anyway. This is simply abuse, because this service must be free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen, in this case we are talking about an abuse of a dominant position by a sector that runs after our money and wants more and more, but not for our benefit. In the eyes of banks, are we customers or milk cows? We deposit our money in it, invest it and grow it and it should be managed as a good father of the family. In the end, we consumers, what do we receive? It's expensive accounts and agencies that close. Take, for example, BNP Paribas Fortis, which announced the closure of 62 agencies. The reduction in the number of distributors must also be deplored. In three years, we are talking about the abolition of 500 of them. In addition, staff are dismissed. At ING, in particular, more than 100 jobs have been lost in the last two years. And today it will take fifty cents to get twenty euros from the distributor! Do you know how much of ING's profits were in 2017? 876 million. Do you know how much KBC won last year? Two billion euros, twice as much as in 2016! Minister, you know how much the financial crisis has cost us and how much we have had to pay to prevent the bankruptcy of a whole sector. And you know we're still paying for it. Banks have the ability to do the big back and turn it to their small customers, to those who have to go to the dropper twenty euros several times a month. Prime Minister, what have you undertaken since the beginning of this Parliament to prevent this sector from going mad? We tabled a motion for a resolution at the beginning of the legislature, when we felt that the banks believed themselves to be allowed again. In this way, we asked you to organize a round table with the banking sector to prevent withdrawal pricing, to ensure accessibility of services, to prepare an inventory of distributors and to take steps to ensure that there are enough or to refer the price observatory for a study of the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u42	Mr Friart, Mrs Ben Hamou, first of all, I would like to point out that bank rates are not subject to price regulation which, since the sixth reform of the State, has been transferred to the Regions. Second, the adjustment of tariffs is a commercial decision of the bank itself. The choice of ING to charge fifty cents by withdrawal of money by means of its product ING Lion Account in a network other than its own does, in my opinion, not prejudice the gentleman's agreement of 2004. Several banks are also already charging charges for the withdrawal of money from another bank's distributor. This other bank then charges a fee to the bank of the account holder. That is the first part of my answer. But, as you asked, I obviously find it important that the banking sector continues to play its social role for families and businesses. This will therefore be discussed very soon with the professional organisation of the banks. You are right about the fact that we need to talk to these organisations to prevent families and small and medium-sized enterprises from being victims of certain bank policies. I'll contact the banks to find an appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u43	Minister, I note from your reply that banks are therefore not subject to these 2004 regulations. I also note that you will soon enter into discussions with them. I will soon come back to you in committee for further clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u44	Minister, I understand that you are concerned about this matter. I hope you will have the political will and courage to do what is necessary. Until proven otherwise, it is not up to the banks to govern our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u45	Mr President, Minister, last week you announced that you had intervened on the Bpost strike, but less than a week later we are discussing that dossier again. The day before yesterday, the happy news finally came that a preliminary agreement had been reached, whereby the management undertook to recruit a thousand more people, to review the Georoute system, to conclude fixed contracts more quickly and to hold more social and constructive consultations on the ongoing reorganisation. I felt, undoubtedly along with you, that this would be in line with the desires of the trade unions to reduce the workload and to deal with the lack of staff. I also felt that I could, undoubtedly with you, draw the conclusion from the words of ACOD Secretary Jean-Pierre Nyns that the management and the employees would once again put their shoulders under bpost. After all, he said, and I quote: 'The agreement must restore confidence and meet the expectations of the staff about the workload'. Finally, I thought, undoubtedly together with you, that we can now finally move on from the development of bpost to a modern competitive postal service. Alas, wrong thought! After all, yesterday we received the absurd news that the preliminary agreement, even before the ink was dry, was rejected by the trade unionists. Even more so, the trade unions argued that they would not bother to defend the preliminary agreement with their supporters. This is the absurdity in the square! The trade unions conclude a preliminary agreement and then refuse to defend it with their supporters. Either the trade unions played a game and used a perfide bargaining technique in the negotiations, and knew only too well that the agreement would not be enough, or the trade unions had no contact with their members at all, because they were flogged back. In short, either hypocrisy, or ivory tower syndrome. I thought, however, that pacta sunt servanda was a very important starting point in negotiations, but apparently not within the framework of the trade unions. I repeat my questions from last week, Minister. Have the trade unions strictly followed the strike protocol in this respect? Isn't the time now to appoint a social mediator? Quid with the minimum service? What other initiatives will you possibly take in this dossier? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u46	Minister, I must tell you, if you do not know, that the bpost staff is outraged by management proposals. For bpost staff, this is not an agreement plan! It is the same plan as before, containing the same elements as before, or even worse than before in some cases! It is therefore no wonder that strike pickets are increasing today. A few things. With regard to the 900 Euro premium, which is a central aspect of the claims, there is no guarantee that this premium will be maintained. It is important to know that wages are wages of misery. An auxiliary postal worker earns between €1,200 and €1,600 net per month without the possibility of an increase due to seniority. The second important point is the increase in employment. Of the 1,000 jobs promised, 100 are actually CDI; the rest are the reinforcements to which they were already entitled each year before. Thirdly, we don't know what will replace Georoute. This would appear to be Georoute because there is no clear commitment to this tool which means that factors sometimes have to work two or three hours free of charge every day to get to the end of their tour. Finally, another element that shockes me the most is that in this management text, it is stated that for the members of the post offices, the contracts would go from CDD to CDI but with a clause that allows the management to dismiss workers for serious misconduct – in all illegality, minister. Are you aware that the CEO of bpost proposes a clause allowing the dismissal of workers for serious misconduct simply because their behaviour or level of performance would not be sufficient? This illegal way of acting is shameful! Minister, do you intend to intervene to compel the Bpost CEO to provide real answers to workers' demands? How do you judge this CEO's attempt to give illegal content to serious misconduct? Did not he himself commit a serious fault by acting in this way? Finally, do you maintain your confidence in this CEO who is unable to guarantee good economic management or good social management of the company?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank Members for their questions. Since Thursday morning last week, several important steps have been taken. Talks were started, which took place with due respect and serenity. I have also noticed that the management shows understanding of the difficult working conditions faced by many bpost employees. This is in line with what I said in Parliament last week, namely that problems need to be addressed in the workplace. A range of measures have been put on the table, such as recruitment problems. The decision to stop the implementation of Georoute for the time being has been taken, as well as the decision to determine a path of discussion to consider how to organize the work. These agreements led to a return to work on Monday. This is an important signal, which shows that a certain level of trust between management and workers is being built. I believe that the time has come to strengthen the support base, to restore confidence between the employer and the workers. The agreements made now also need to be translated into concrete measures to improve the situation. The board must now also show that she is serious about what has been put on the table. I understood that management is fully committed to continuing discussions to see how the measures that have been discussed can be implemented. On the one hand, it is quite clear that the employees of bpost are entitled to better working conditions; the management also recognises this. On the other hand, bpost must be able to prepare its future, a future in which the volume of letters falls and the volume of packets increases. This can only be achieved if we sit down at the table and continue the discussions. I believe that the resumption of work is a good thing. It is now up to the management to show that the measures on the table are serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u48	Minister, I agree with the content of your reply. Indeed, this majority attaches great importance to social dialogue in the context of employment and all that has to do with it. However, I must say that the vaudeville of recent days, such as the conclusion of a preliminary agreement to call it back for no good reason, undermines the credibility of the trade unions as a reliable partner in this matter. This threatens to undermine the model of social dialogue on which we can take pride. And who will ultimately be the biggest victim of this? Indeed, the workers themselves, whose trade unions claim to defend their interests. It is therefore time for you to use your authority to put the trade unions in order on that point, so that they can move away from perfide negotiation methods, perhaps not achieving what they stand for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u49	Minister, I think you don't know what's going on at the post office. I advise you to go meet the postal officers to discuss their daily reality and how they perceive what the management is proposing to them. You say there's more trust, but trust has never been worse than it is today! You say that management must demonstrate the validity of what it puts on the table, but there is no merit in what it puts on the table. Today, what she puts on the table is totally unacceptable. Inserting a serious fault clause in a text submitted to workers is a provocation, in addition to being illegal. I will ask you more questions about this because it is intolerable. Minister, postal workers are proud of their profession, but they have the right to respect, humane working conditions and a decent wage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u50	Minister, this is the story of a little girl named Julia, who is five years old and who in April of this year falls brutally and seriously ill with haemolysis syndrome and uremia. The situation is so serious that it will be transferred from the Espérance clinic in Montegnée to the Robert Debré hospital in Paris. His life is at stake. The treatment was particularly heavy, intensive and long, the multiple complications. After long months, she lives again. The bill for the hospital in Paris amounts to 75,000 euros, due to the very long intensive care care and also the treatment, which we know because it is reimbursed in Belgium for certain pathologies, namely Eculizumab. This invoice is not taken into account for reimbursement in Belgium. The family appeals to the Special Solidarity Fund without success. It's Julia's story, but it's also potentially the story of other sick children. The Belgian decision to refuse repayment is incomprehensible. The criteria for refusal of intervention for hospitalisation costs in Paris raise questions. How is it that a medical treatment which is not reimbursed in this indication in Belgium, but is for other indications, makes it possible to justify the refusal to take care of the costs of hospitalisation abroad, in this case in Paris? Is it not important, besides the criteria, to show a minimum of flexibility? This is essential if we take into account the grave and urgent situation of this child, even though a Belgian hospital decides that care abroad is necessary to save his life?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u51	Mrs Fonck, thank you. Not knowing the situation in question, I can only explain to you why this can happen. The Reimbursement Committee for Medicinal Products examines the treatment of reimbursements for medicinal products. The committee gives a final opinion on the basis of certain criteria and then forwards its opinion to me. The absolute condition of this procedure is that the indication be registered with the European Medicines Agency, which in this case is not the case. The indication should be mentioned in the scientific note of the medicinal product. If no treatment is available in Belgium, the patient may be sent abroad after obtaining the consent of the mutual medical practitioner. In the event of a medical emergency, this can be done very quickly and INAMI then intervenes in the costs incurred. I would remind you that there is a refund of medical benefits abroad if they are recognised and reimbursed by our Belgian medical care. As far as the procedure with the Fund is concerned, the College of Physicians is competent to issue a decision. In this specific case, the indication for which the medicinal product was administered was not registered with the European Medicines Agency. You are wrong about the reimbursement of this medicine in other countries: it does not take place elsewhere. No reimbursement is therefore legally possible in Belgium. This is a so-called off-label use of a medicinal product that may pose a risk to the patient. Having seen in the last hour that this case was being reported, we informed our administrations that the case had not yet been closed. Some questions remain unanswered, such as, for example, why the hospital sent this little girl to Paris when this same treatment was possible in our hospitals. There is also uncertainty as to the content of the €80,000 invoice. It was also asked to examine all the circumstances to which you referred.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Yesterday, as we read from Sudpresse, a very clear refusal was expressed in the press. Today, I hear what you're saying: the case is not completely closed. Allow me to invite you, as well as the whole of your administration, to be particularly careful not to sweep away all the special, serious, urgent circumstances that may at some point arise in the management of a disease as serious as that suffered by little Julia. Let me also propose that the various decision-making partners be brought together around the table, because I believe that the dimension of a vital emergency must be integrated into the criteria for taking account of repayment situations. Of course, there are the criteria, but when a Belgian hospital decides that it needs, in order to care for a child in a gravissim situation, to call on the Robert Debré hospital in Paris, which is truly at the European point in the field of paediatrics, it can be said that the transfer is justified. And you will agree with me that in such an urgent situation, it is not possible to introduce an entire administrative procedure upstream and therefore downstream. I thank you, Madam Minister, for re-examining the situation so that we can show humanity and, above all, a minimum of flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, on World Diabetes Day, the N-VA Group would like to draw attention to the people with diabetes in this country, more than half a million people. Expenditure on caring for people with diabetes is important. They are estimated at 9% internationally and EUR 2.7 billion for this country. A few years ago, a European comparison was made between the different countries. The Health Consumer Powerhouse index showed that our country, in proportion to the costs we spend on the care of diabetes, is not getting the quality we would expect. That is why the N-VA welcomes the initiatives taken both at Flemish and federal level. Think of the Halt2Diabetes project, in which people with diabetes are detected more quickly, so that they can also be assisted more quickly. Think also of the federal reimbursement of continuous glucose measurement, the reimbursement of the dietician in case of obesity, which is a major cause of diabetes or which greatly increases the risk of diabetes. However, a lot of work remains to be done. That is why we organised a round table of experts and patients with the members of CD&V, Open Vld and MR in order to listen to the policy changes that are still possible to increase diabetes concerns. These questions about change on the ground turn out to be the following. It requires faster access to and support by the diabetes educator. I understand that's what you and the government are doing. When can we expect the royal decision on this matter? It also calls for attention to be paid to the new generation of medicines that are often not reimbursed today, which makes it difficult for specialists to prescribe proper treatment in certain indications. It is also called for better support from the podologist in the event of complications. Finally, it is also requested that, at the start of the journey, two pairs of custom shoes should be refunded, so that patients can have a summer pair and a winter pair and then renew a pair every year. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you this. Would you support our majority resolution? What changes are underway? When can we expect improvements?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, on World Diabetes Day, we are always looking at the many people in our country who are affected by one type of diabetes or another. There are preventive measures at Community level and we are helping to do so by concluding agreements on, for example, healthy food. As far as treatment is concerned, we have already invested a great deal. There are a lot of RIZIV conventions on diabetes, such as the preliminary stage, which is an extension of the former diabetes pass, the type 2 care pathway and the type 1 diabetes convention for children and adults. In the period 2015-2016, these conventions were completely updated and their quality improved. Also in the summer of 2016, we approved and refunded innovative patches and sensors, first for adults and then for children. This is not only seen internationally as the best example, but also brings about a huge improvement in the quality of life. We know that through the studies carried out. As regards education and movement advice, four sessions of education by nurses, diabetes educators, dietists, pharmacists or physiotherapists have been reimbursed since 1 May 2018, as part of the diabetes pathway. All patients included in the convention have access to the podologist, but for diabetic patients with foot problems and wounds there is a separate convention, the foot convention. There could always be improvements. There's still better medication on the market. Two new oral medicines for diabetes treatment came onto the market this month. The obligation to register has also been extended. In short, this government has been investing a great deal in treating diabetes for four years. That's an important disease. We have consistently introduced new measures and improved reimbursement for that group. I wish to share that news with them today and say that we will continue to work in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u55	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer and for the attention you are paying to this problem. Next month there will be a new Global Diabetes Policy Summit. We will certainly mention the new developments in our country. As you yourself say, it remains difficult, of course, because prevention is a competence at state level and treatment is a competence at federal level. As long as the state structure is not improved, it will continue to row with the belts we have. That is why, of course, we are asking in a more global context that health care should be organised at the level of the Länder. This would also allow the Länder to focus more on their target populations. For example, Wallonia is more affected in terms of diabetes: 7% compared to 5% in Flanders. Or take obesity among young people: 25% in Wallonia compared with only 16% in Flanders. We all know that obesity represents an 80-fold higher risk of diabetes. So it is still an important problem to focus on. This is already more than half a million compatriots and an increase of 20% is expected by 2040. As long as we still have this state structure, I would like to thank the federal colleagues from CD&V, Open Vld and MR for supporting our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u56	Mr President, Minister, my question relates to the debate currently taking place at European level between finance ministers on the imposition of a digitaks on web giants and online companies. The question is whether we should tax profits or whether we should introduce a turnover tax. This makes a huge difference, of course, because it can be easily avoided by giants such as Google, Facebook and Apple. For that reason, Ireland is against a digitaks. There are different attitudes. The European Commission launched this idea in March. I attended the Interparliamentary Conference in Vienna, Austria, on behalf of the Belgian Parliament in September. At that time, the Austrian Presidency made a warm plea for these digitals. I noticed that several countries were not so enthusiastic. Minister, we read in the press that this has reached Merkel and Macron level. Germany was initially in favour, but wants to come back to that now, so to speak, for technical reasons. There is a lot of debate on this. My question is where Belgium is in this discussion. I have seen that Germany is actually opposed to this proposal. Countries such as Sweden and Norway are also opposed. I believe that the Netherlands, Belgium and Great Britain are ahead of us. In short, where is Belgium in this debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u57	Minister, today we are addressing an issue of interest and concern to the vast majority of public opinion. I mean the digital giants, called GAFAMs, according to the initials of Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft, but also Twitter, etc. These giants pose problems on three fronts: fiscal problems, research problems, and the protection of individual freedoms. I will focus, Minister of Finance, on the tax issue. On 4 December, at the next Council of European Finance Ministers, a decision should be taken on the project to tax digital giants. This proposal to tax the gross business income of digital platforms at 3% would be transitional at EU level in time to reach an international agreement on the taxation of the profits of these digital companies. For a long time, the case was blocked, because Ireland, Luxembourg, Sweden (which still has a socialist and environmental government) and other countries blocked such cases. Hurrah! Germany and Luxembourg now have an agreement on this. Mr Minister, before discussing technical details, is Belgium in favour of the very principle of this tax? In your opinion, will the intra-European consensus that seems to be emerging lead to an agreement on 4 December? In the event of agreement, will this European unity allow this tax to be extended beyond the European Union, with a wider treaty? Who will be our partners in this broader negotiation? We know that the Americans are strongly opposed to it. What will be the result of this GAFAM tax? For what purposes will it be affected? It is estimated, not nothing, that this would amount to about EUR 5 billion a year. Minister, are you in favour of listing the sale of data within the scope of the tax? We're talking about a start of implementation for 2021, but what's the exact schedule? Do you defend the automatic or spontaneous exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Member States? Finally, how can we avoid tax arrangements, which are well known to such companies, so as to avoid the tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u58	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, Mr Van Rompuy, on 6 November we did indeed discuss in detail the European Commission's proposal for a digital services tax in the context of Ecofin. I believe that this proposal is more than appropriate, because the famous Internet giants are absolutely not doing what should be done about a serious, fair tax contribution. During that debate, it was clear that a large majority of Member States supported the Commission's idea and motivation to implement the proposal. You have both mentioned a few countries, I do not need to repeat them, which are still clumsy-handed and have reservations about going along with that story, because they do not think that the technical permanence of the proposals is sufficient today. The Austrian Presidency has taken it upon itself to put some points quickly on the subject of technical imperfection. In the slipstream, there was also a wide-ranging discussion on 6 November on whether it would be better to postpone the whole launch immediately until the beginning of 2020. This would give the opportunity to conduct the discussion on this axis within the OECD in more depth than is currently the case in the European Union. Indeed, if countries such as the United States and/or Japan were to follow the idea of applying this tax, it would be a much stronger sign and reality than if it were only a tax at European Union level. I clearly and firmly confirm that we remain constructive in these discussions in Europe and also in the OECD, where three specific proposals are currently on the table. Again, I confirm that Belgium and the Belgian Government have engaged constructively in these discussions. Finally, I would like to point out a point that Mr Flahaux has also touched: we cannot allow ourselves to sleep in this debate solely on the tax issue; it is absolutely important, but for me, the problem of the Internet giants goes far beyond just a tax debate. It is about privacy, about monopolies, about the opportunities for young entrepreneurs to take initiatives to develop. We are increasingly seeing an impact of these companies on developments in these markets. I therefore call for a coherent assessment system to be established, but we must certainly not weaken vigilance in the area of the monopoly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u59	Minister, I fully support your analysis and conclusions. Indeed, the average of corporation tax on profits in Europe cannot be around 25%, whereas these giants only pay 9%. They use all possible tax avoidance mechanisms, which are only at European level and at OECD level, but let's start in Europe, because that could already be an important step to be taken. The dominant position of these companies is indeed taking out a lot of new players, while the digital revolution should not be limited to the big five. In this respect, we fully support your attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I am rather satisfied with. However, I would like to pay attention to the fact that the United Kingdom, although led by a Conservative party, has already planned to apply this tax when the country is outside the European Union. You have rightly raised, as I did, the existence of three fronts: the tax front, which we are approaching, the research front, and the protection of public freedoms. You're right, these will be other issues we'll have to deal with. Finally, I would like to say to those who think that the Liberals are still the advocates of big companies, that this is not true. It is enough to see at the level of the European Commission: it is a liberal Commissioner, Margrethe Vestager, who makes the digital giants bend without problems. So we have no lessons to learn!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the price of electricity will increase by EUR 100. We already know that, that's a certainty. However, we are not sure that we will get electricity for this. The price will rise, but whether the light will light, it will become more uncertain every day. This, Madam Minister, is the result of non-policy and of a lasting belief in nuclear energy, even though we should already know that nuclear energy is a very uncertain form of energy. This year alone, in 2018, 50% of the plants have already been unavailable. That means very great uncertainty and untrustworthyness. Today we are informed that Objective 1 will not be available in the immediate future, but hopefully in January. However, I can assure you that Objective 2 is not certain either, because this is the same kind of plant. The investigation is still ongoing, but it is unlikely that Objective 2 will be able to start on the planned date either. My first question is therefore very simple, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u63	Mr Flahaux, I did not say anything when you asked your question. It would be respectful if you were to do the same now. Madam Secretary, this morning you convened the task force. What's the result of that? Can you say something about security of supply? My second question concerns the price. The Prime Minister has repeatedly promised us here that the price increase, due to the abnormal unavailability of nuclear power stations, will be offset by Electrabel. Where do you stand with this? Has the legal procedure started yet? Have you been in contact with ENGIE Electrabel? It would actually be much easier if you now said that you would lower VAT on electricity. This can go ahead immediately and is better than initiating legal proceedings against Electrabel, which you will most probably not win. Madam Minister, my question concerning the price is two-fold. Where are you with your contacts in that regard? In what way will Electrabel contribute? Have you made the necessary contacts? Have the legal steps been taken yet? That is what you asked for. What do you think of a reduction in VAT on electricity? That would really help people. I'm always looking forward to your answers, but now in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u64	Minister, Minister, since September, the Belgian energy market has been very troubled. Security of supply would be compromised, switching plans re-emerged and all kinds of doom scenarios were circulating in the media. Afterwards, however, it all turned out to be not so bad. The maintenance of a nuclear power plant was brought forward, there was additional capacity via gas plants and Germany would transport less power through our grid, so there was no longer any question of switching off. This morning, however, the news came that the work on Objective 1 would take a little longer. This again causes unrest and the same questions pop up again. It was also announced that Tihange 3 could open earlier but that was less highlighted, the negative news dominated. Madam Secretary, you immediately brought together the task force to check security of supply. That was the right decision, but that task force should actually be able to work a little more proactively. Elia, the CREG, the Cabinet, the Directorate General for Energy and ENGIE are the players in the field of energy who should actually sit around the table much faster if there is a problem. They can then analyse the situation before the news comes out. If there is a problem, they can immediately assess the impact and, if necessary, come up with a solution. In this way we avoid panic, unrest and the effects of price increases on the energy market. Our consumers and businesses need security. Madam Secretary, I have two questions. Can you explain the impact of this morning's ENGIE communication on security of supply? Are you planning to use the task force more proactively so that we can avoid market unrest?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I am sure you would have imagined otherwise today. Normally, you would be in Egypt, but our nuclear power stations were ruining food and you had to stay home to ensure security of supply. Today it is quite difficult to know which nuclear power station is still running and which is not. The repair work appears to be longer and more difficult than expected. And so not only the nuclear reactors themselves, but also their roadmaps. The objective 1 will therefore be a month and a half longer than planned and at the same time it will be examined whether Tihange 3 can be started more quickly. Colleagues, our security of supply is starting to look a bit like a DJ turntable, one song goes out faster, the other song has to go on faster, and if it's a bit of a problem, a little bit of mixing can be done and several power stations can run at once. The longer cessation of Objective 1 is obviously not good news for our security of supply for the month of January, just the month that was so critical. Of course, our security of supply must not be soldered. Several measures have already been taken to avoid a short-term power shortage, e.g. the start-up of gas plants, agreements on electricity imports with our neighbouring countries and commitment to demand management. Madam Minister, you have already made a great deal of effort as a competent minister, but if it is not certain which nuclear power station will run when, it will continue to mop up with the tap open and our energy policy will continue to improvise. The situation is therefore distressing and worrying. You rightly started a task force to monitor the situation closely, because the situation changes day after day. Firstly, which nuclear power stations are you really sure will run in January and February? Secondly, how will you work with all stakeholders to ensure that the lamp will continue to burn all winter? Finally, on prices. Of course, the volatility of nuclear power plants has an impact on prices. Consumers and businesses must not suffer from this. It was stated here earlier that the additional price will be recovered or passed on to ENGIE. I would have liked to have heard what steps have already been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u66	Mr President, the delay in the reopening of Objective 1 does not make the problem of security of supply easier. The situation has been critical since September, when ENGIE Electrabel meant the unavailability of its production park for this winter, resulting in a task force following the situation. As you said, Doel 2 will be subject to the same inspection as Doel 1. But today, I cannot say whether the problems encountered at Doel 1 will arise at Doel 2. We have to wait for the results that will come in a few days. I will communicate in this regard at that time. In the good news chapter – because there are also some – Tihange 1 returned earlier than expected to the market. At the same time, under constant pressure on Electrabel, we obtained that it aggregates and returns to production capacity of more than 1,000 MW. Instead of the initial 700 MW, we now have 1,000 MW, with a demand management portfolio in the head of Eletrabel larger. All these measures ensure security of supply until the end of the year. So we can have a Christmas Eve worthy of that name. From December 31st to January 1st, we enter the year 2019 and since the beginning of this crisis, on September 21st, we know that these are critical months for which important infrastructures should be able to return to the electric circuit. You said it, but I want to go further: subject to a decision by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency in the coming days, Tihange 3 could come back earlier. In addition, Doel 4's forecast schedule, which is also being reviewed by the AFCN, remains the same, namely a return in December. As far as prices are concerned, they returned at the end of October to the same level as before 21 September. At the moment, they go back a little but not in the proportions you gave. This morning, we discussed this with CREG. This represents an increase of €5 per MWh in wholesale markets, as these do not impact fixed contracts for citizens and businesses, which account for 75% of all contracts. For the anticipation, you need to know that I was at the gate door with my luggage yesterday afternoon when I heard this news. I immediately contacted the operator and provoked the task force meeting this morning, even though this task force meets regularly. It was during the robot examination of Doel 1 that this problem was detected and evaluated all afternoon yesterday with AFCN. It was therefore impossible to anticipate more than we did. Together with my staff, I am available at every hour of the day to ensure that all parties involved accept their responsibility and help to ensure the security of supply of your ris, parce que je n'ai pas le néerlandais and poche aujourd'hui for this winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer and for your optimism that we will be covered by electricity until December. I absolutely do not share your optimism. You say you can't foresee the future. However, we already know today that Objective 2 will also cause problems, since Objective 2 is the same building as Objective 1. You say that we must wait and it is true that we will have to wait until the end of November for the results. However, since this is the same building, there is a fairly high risk that Objective 2 will also have to be postponed. That is somewhat characteristic of your policy. You're not proactive in those cases. We knew for a long time that there would be problems. Now these problems are ahead of us. Yesterday, you couldn't leave for Egypt because another nuclear power plant has stopped. Such problems are now specific to our nuclear power stations. I hope you can see that. As far as the price is concerned, you really disappoint me. What you are saying is probably true, so I will not deny that prices are gradually stabilizing, but they will rise if deficits occur, because that is an economic reality. We were promised that ENGIE Electrabel would pay for that. However, I understand from your reply that you have not yet done anything about it. Madam Secretary, one in five families is living in energy poverty today. If prices are still going to rise, then that number is going to be one in four to one in three families. That's what you're responsible for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Of course, we are going to have more certainty than until December, even in the months of January, February and March. The task force plays an important role in this. Perhaps there was timely anticipation, but in any case not timely communication. After all, once again the negative news has got the upper hand, and prices have started to rise again. It is true that prices have returned to normal since the September crisis, but we have seen some peaks. This is very damaging for companies that buy on the daily market and therefore fall outside the scope of competition. I think it is very important that you give the task force even more powers, follow even more accurately and make it work even more proactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u69	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You remain optimistic, but the situation is still uncertain and critical. Our nuclear power plants have been the strongholders of our energy supply over the past decades, but the situation we are in today is unseen and worrying. Day after day, it's just waiting to see if there's another problem with a reactor. The situation for January and February is still critical of the unexpected absence of Objective 1. That makes one thing very clear to us, in particular that our nuclear power stations are no longer reliable. In the short term, everything must be done to keep the lamp running, both in January, February and in all other months. At the same time, we need to work hard on additional production capacity so that the agreed core exit can be carried out. For us, the energy source of the future is renewable energy and not our current nuclear power plants. We must also keep an eye on the price. The coalition agreement states that we must have an energy standard. I would once again urge the introduction of this. Candles are always very nice during the holidays. I hope that these candlelights will only be atmosphere lights and that the lamp will remain on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u71	By letter of 12 November 2018, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 12 November 2018 entitled "Government - Dismissal - Appointment'. By letter dated November 12, 2018, the Prime Minister transmits a copy of the Royal Order of November 12, 2018 entitled "Government - Resignation - Appointment". He stated that the resignation offered by Mr Steven Vandeput from his post as Minister of Defence with responsibility for Civil Service was accepted. He stated that the resignation offered by Mr. Steven Vandeput, from his post as Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, was accepted. Mr Sander Loones, Member of the European Parliament, is hereby appointed Minister of Defence with responsibility for Civil Service Affairs. Mr Sander Loones, Member of the European Parliament, is appointed Minister of Defence, responsible for the Civil Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u72	Pursuant to Article 50 of the Constitution and Article 12 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a member who ceased to hold office following his appointment as Minister or State Secretary shall resume his term of office as soon as the King has ceased to hold office as Minister or State Secretary. His successor shall cease to be in session. Pursuant to Article 50 of the Constitution and Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, the member appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, ceases to sit and resumes his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister. His successor ceases to sit. On 12 November 2018, the King accepted the resignation offered by Mr Steven Vandeput from his office as Minister of Defence in charge of Civil Service. On 12 November 2018, the King accepted the resignation of Steven Vandeput as Minister of Defence, in charge of the Civil Service. Consequently, Mr Steven Vandeput resumes his parliamentary mandate on 12 November 2018. Mr Wouter Raskin, who sits as a member of the Chamber of Representatives in place of Mr Steven Vandeput for the duration of his term of office, is to sit and will again be the first successor to the Limburg constituency. Mr Steven Vandeput therefore resumes his parliamentary mandate on 12 November 2018. Mr. Wouter Raskin, who was allowed to sit as an effective member of the House of Representatives in place of Mr. Steven Vandeput for the duration of his ministerial office, ceased to sit and became the first alternate in the electoral district of Limburg. I thank Mr Wouter Raskin. I want to thank Mr Wouter Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u73	By letter dated 14 November 2018, the Ecolo-Green Group of the Chamber informed me that Mr Kristof Calvo was appointed as group chairman from 14 November 2018. By letter dated 14 November 2018, the Chamber's Ecolo-Groen Group informed me of the appointment of Mr Kristof Calvo as group chair from 14 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u74	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2018, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the appointment of the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, No. 3364/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the appointment of the Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services, No. 3364/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Klaps referred to his written report. Before I give the floor, let me make the following point. Minister Peeters is the minister responsible. He told me, when he left the Chamber on the oral questions, that he would be present at the discussion. I'm asking the services to call him as soon as possible. Maybe he's around. Perhaps it would be appropriate to suspend the sitting for a moment. Parliament decides. Does anyone ask for the Minister's presence? Yes, Mrs. Lalieux, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u76	Mr. Chair, Mr. Peeters has five bills on the Orders of the Day, not least. The minister is not often present in the Committee on the Economy, but when he has plans in plenary, it would be to show respect to Parliament to be present. Otherwise, let's start with something else!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u77	No, we can't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u78	It's not passionate at all, Mr. Bacquelaine! I appreciate his coming with us, but I think he knows nothing about the transposition of the directive on the distribution of insurance. Mr Bacquelaine knows very well that I do not insult him, but I would like Mr Peeters to be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u79	I think we'd better suspend the hearing until the minister arrives. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u80	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u81	I call Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for moving to the hemisphere for a very important bill. The design is correcting an historic mistake. The previous government has decided in its efforts to apply the MiFID rules of Europe, which apply to banks, also to the insurance sector. This has led to years of chaos in the sector. You have seen me standing here during Question Time with a lot of classics. I wanted to make it clear that, in the long term, the concept of consumer protection was more filled in by the number of kilos of paper supplied to consumers or by effective information. That is not the intention, of course. We in the N-VA support efficient consumer protection, and that is not the same as a giant paper mountain. I therefore believe that the text before us today is a very good compromise between the questions of all stakeholders in the sector in order to protect consumers. I do not need to remind you that we are not in favour of gold-plating. We are always trying to avoid this, where it can be done, because otherwise we will introduce more and more new obligations, which always bring new costs, difficulties and work. However, as far as the information rules are concerned, we do, and I therefore call for a very short-term evaluation of these rules. In this way it can be verified whether the additional obligations are indeed useful. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still a concern that the draft before us will delegate a great deal of powers to the King. We have to pay attention to that. I understand that it is often technically impossible, but we are very concerned about the content of the royal decrees. In fact, by means of royal decrees, power can still be transferred to administrative control services, and that should not be the intention. I have therefore called on the Minister in committee to deliver the content of these royal decisions to the committee so that, if necessary, we can debate them again. All in all, this is an excellent transposition of a European directive, which was desperately needed and which is helping our sector forward. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u83	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that with five projects it is better to be in plenary session, especially when there is both positive and negative. Of course we will not fail to stress the positive, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. The IDD (Insurance Distribution Directive) directive is one of the many texts published by Europe following the 2008 financial crisis - it is still to be remembered and discussed in the media this morning - and as a result of the awareness of the damage caused by the lack of regulation in the financial world. I would point out that the Di Rupo government had decided to anticipate this European directive by extending the scope of the MiFID directive, which was primarily concerned with the banking world. This banking directive has been applied to certain insurance rules. This is the so-called AssurMiFID legislation that was put in place by Minister Vande Lanotte. As I said to you, Deputy Prime Minister, I regret that the majority parties today call these consumer protection rules put in place by the previous government "unnecessary poverty". These are the terms of some members of the majority. Mr Klaps, you are here and these are of course your words. In my view, on the occasion of this transposition, the government obviously sought to reconsider the necessary rules of the past, which were very useful in protecting consumers. Besides, a moment ago, I thought I heard from your mouth, Mr. Klaps, that it was decided to satisfy the insurance lobby. That is why the PS group will not support this bill. Of course, as I would like to say briefly, I will not repeat everything that was said in committee. However, I will take a crucial example: the techniques used by insurance companies to motivate intermediaries to sell their products. In a recent report, the insurance regulator gave an important signal. The sector finances the FSMA. Mr Klaps, you asked a question in committee yesterday. We wanted this regulator, because the banks and insurances have notoriously played at the casino. When the FSMA publishes a report, the government sits on it! Indeed, Minister, the regulator has sounded the alarm by noting abuses in terms of the remuneration of insurance intermediaries, which are likely to harm the interests of consumers. These are the terms used by the regulator. This includes incentive programs, which allow brokers to attend free of charge or, in any case, on highly advantageous terms, cultural and sporting events or training abroad. It is also mentioned that insurance companies include minimum returns to be achieved in the pricing of commissions awarded to their brokers. Yet, as you know, Deputy Prime Minister, such a practice is firmly condemned by our regulator. I will not recall, but I like to do so, because I am a woman, the caricatural history of a German society that had chosen to pay its deserving intermediaries by offering them young women from Hungary. It's great as an image and as a witness of respect for women! When we hear the FSMA talk about trips to paradise islands for 15 days - this is in the FSMA report, Deputy Prime Minister - we still say that there is an important problem to be solved. How do you regulate the transposition of the directive? How do you respond to the alarm signal issued by your own regulator? First by lowering the current level of protection! In the future, brokers will no longer be required to demonstrate that the award of the incentive improves the quality of service to the client. Are you protesting? Vote on our amendment, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Otherwise, it will suffice to indicate that remuneration does not have a negative effect on the quality of this service, which is much less burdensome. But travel continues. Then you decide to leave it to the insurance sector to self-regulate. This is the rule according to which the organisations representing the insurance sector are responsible for drawing up by common agreement a code of conduct on incentives within six months. It is surreal, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, that the FSMA, your regulator, pulls the alarm bell to signal a problem and that you answer it by saying - Mr Klaps has repeated it in the gallery - that they have the free field and that you will give the law to their agreements. That is the message you are conveying. Deputy Prime Minister, we ask that consumers be able to participate in the development of this code. I am against this code because I believe that you should create the framework in the law, but allowing consumers to participate is a minimum. I also believe that there was agreement among all the delegations in the Insurance Committee that consumer representatives should be able to cooperate constructively in the discussion of this draft code of conduct. You did not choose this option. I'm asking you why. We also ask that the current level of protection not be altered. Consumer representatives in the Insurance Commission have denounced "a step backwards in the area of consumer protection and the prevention of conflicts of interest in the head of intermediaries". That is what the Deputy Prime Minister is talking about today. That is also our position, which is why we are resubmitting our amendments to the framework for the remuneration of insurance intermediaries. Once again, with you, Deputy Prime Minister, the financial lobby has won in the face of the necessary regulation and the necessary consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u84	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this text the government has succeeded in a careful transposition of the European directive on the distribution of insurance. Indeed, the text we are looking at today takes into account the demands of the insurance sector, but also the interests of consumers. The project allows several essential changes for the insurance sector. On the one hand, we are amending the Insurance Act in order to make the necessary adjustments with regard to the requirements relating to the status of intermediaries, the professional and organisational requirements imposed on insurance and reinsurance undertakings, as well as the rules of conduct and information obligations. On the other hand, we are simplifying the legislative framework. All the rules of conduct and information obligations applicable to the insurance sector are compiled. With this text bringing many reforms, our group is in favour of its evaluation within two years. Colleagues, considering the essential contribution of this legislation to the insurance sector, I invite you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u85	Minister, the transposition of this European directive into Belgian law is a positive thing for consumers. This has already been mentioned in committee and by the rapporteur. The aim of the directive is to ensure that everyone involved in the sale of insurance follows the same rules. The Directive, which aims at minimum harmonisation of the European insurance market, allows Member States to take stricter measures to increase consumer protection. We therefore welcome the fact that the draft law before us offers a higher level of protection than that laid down in the directive. In committee, I expressed a number of concerns and proposed improvements to which the Minister replied. I am not going to repeat them again, but you know that I am a driver and always hope for even more positive news than at the committee meeting. That is why I would like to retable two amendments. The aim is to include a provision that people who have ever been seriously ill or who are suffering from a chronic condition under control will be given the right to be forgotten when taking out insurance. The right to be forgotten must also be possible in Belgium, as in France. Today, for example, ex-cancer patients or people suffering from a chronic condition under control pay particularly high premiums for debt balance and other insurance. The two amendments provide a solution to this problem. In committee, you said that you are working on a draft law, but I would urge you to move very quickly; hence my action today to raise the issue. I hope that Parliament will send a positive signal on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that the government has chosen to implement the European directive, the IDD, as faithfully as possible, and to minimise the administrative burden. However, a number of aspects were chosen to derogate from the maximum transposition of the Directive in order to take account of a number of specific features of the Belgian market. For example, it was chosen to reduce the amount in the Directive exempting ancillary insurance intermediaries from the obligation to register with the FSMA to EUR 200. We have had a debate on this. For a number of self-employed ancillary insurance intermediaries offering travel insurance, for example, this is not an obvious choice. They are precisely requesting parties for a higher threshold so that they can continue to pursue their profession with an exemption from registration. On the other hand, I know that there are people who want to lower the EUR 200 threshold, which the government has chosen. The Minister has chosen the amount of EUR 200, which is in the middle of all the proposals put forward. The Minister said in committee that the King would have the power to adjust the threshold, to promote consumer protection and to take account of the evolution of consumer prices. As that threshold has caused some concern, Minister, we are therefore pleased that you agree to evaluate the law and that it may be possible to adjust it after an evaluation period. You have also left room to do business through the KB. We insist on carrying out that evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u87	Mr President, I will speak quickly on this bill concerning the transposition of the directive. It generally respects a number of concepts and is sometimes more severe. Mr President, I would like to stress one element of this text. The bill incorporates a series of provisions relating to ancillary insurance intermediaries. It is clear that this effectively reduces the amount of 600 to 200 euros for this type of premium, but problematic situations often arise from ancillary insurance contracts, sold in particular with smartphones or other computer or household products. Often these premiums do not exceed EUR 200. We therefore wonder, Minister, about the logic of your proposal, particularly with regard to section 20. I would have liked a further answer to this question, the rest having been raised by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u88	Mr. Carcaci's not here. The government has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to thank you all for the interesting debate. Although a number of issues have been raised, I would like to stress them in plenary. I would like to confirm to Mrs Smaers once again that we will follow carefully whether the EUR 200 threshold will give rise to problems in practice and that we will respond to them as much as possible after that evaluation. I would point out to Mrs Detiège that we are preparing a very important bill on the right to forget, so that people who, for example, have had cancer and have been fully cured will not have to pay higher premiums when entering into debt balance insurance. I repeat what I said in committee, namely that we are drawing up a separate draft on this because such provisions do not fit in with the draft that is currently under discussion. Mrs Lalieux, Mrs Galant, Mr de Lamotte, I understand your reaction, especially when you say, Mrs Lalieux, that there is no improvement in consumer protection. You're afraid that's not the case. I have tried to convince you and others that we have obviously tried to transpose the directive but also to improve the situation of consumers. In addition, I have also made it very clear that we are going to draft a very clear code of conduct for consumers, which will give them protection in certain situations that you have illustrated with examples. Finally, I would like to reassure Mr Klaps: I will stick to the commitment I have already expressed in committee: if Parliament or the committee asks for a text and explanation of the royal decisions, then I will certainly do so once they have been drawn up and approved in full transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You will tell us what you said in committee, namely that you will draft a bill. However, there are only five months before the elections. So it's getting pretty short notice. So I repeat my concern, which I have already expressed in committee. Will you be ready with the design in time? If it has not been approved before the end of the term of office, it will be figs after Easter. I therefore once again propose that the amendments be adopted today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u91	Mr Carcaci having arrived, I would like to allow him to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u92	Mr. President, thank you. Excuse me for my momentary absence. Deputy Prime Minister, this bill is already being implemented by most insurance companies. This creates a binding administrative burden for brokers, especially for those with medium-sized portfolios. Nevertheless, I believe that this bill is a good thing and I will vote positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u93	Thank you, Mr Carcaci, for that explanation of vote. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u94	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3297/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3297/4) The draft law contains 58 articles. The bill has 58 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u95	Art. 16/1(n) • 10 - Maya Detiège cs (3297/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u96	Art. 22 • 8 - Karine Lalieux cs (3297/5) • 9 - Karine Lalieux cs (3297/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u97	Sustained: the vote on the amendments, Article 287 in Article 22 and Article 22.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u98	Articles 1 to 19 shall be adopted by article.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Dierick, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3263/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3263.4) The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u102	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Lalieux, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u103	Minister, with this bill, your government is implementing a non-binding recommendation from the Council of the European Union to set up a National Productivity Council to deliver opinions or make proposals in the area of productivity and competitiveness. The Council will be composed of six members at the federal level (two from the Plan Bureau, two from the National Bank, two from the Central Economic Council) and six members nominated by the Regions. There are exclusions, for example for party collaborators, parliamentarians, etc. The question that we have put to you in committee is this: is the creation of this National Productivity Council an additional attack on social consultation by this government? It is certain that this bill creates real mistrust in the head of all the social partners, even within the Central Economic Council. The FGTB stated that the National Productivity Council is a forum with which the European Union "tends to sell a failed economic policy instead of creating a genuine dialogue with the social partners". It provides for a kind of mother-in-law who will oversee national policy. Of course, the wage issue has been excluded from the scope of the new Council's powers, but, indirectly, according to the social partners, reports and diagnoses will always have an influence on social debate and social dialogue, including on wages. In this way, collective bargaining can be influenced or even undermined. The FEB is on the same wavelength. According to her, this body is superfluous: "We will avoid the risk of duplication by having obtained from the minister to entrust the presidency of this new body to the Central Council of the Economy; but here too, we have doubts about its real added value". Mr Minister, for once you have the unanimity of the social partners, you do not listen to them! That's too bad! The question therefore arises as to why this government wanted to create this structure and what impact it will have on social consultation in Belgium. Since we have not received a satisfactory response and have not been convinced – like the social partners – of the added value of this Productivity Council, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u104	Minister, I agree with the questions that my colleague Karine Lalieux has just raised about the usefulness of an additional institution. This raises the question because in Belgium there are a sufficient number of places where social consultation can take place. We do not live in a country where everything is simple and efficiently organized and the establishment of an additional body is an issue for us. Your answers in committee did not convince us. As in committee, I would like to ask you about the very approach of the Productivity Council. We are talking about opinions, socio-economic policies, productivity, but this remains extremely classic in our view, focusing on issues of wage costs or competitiveness with neighbouring countries. All this makes sense, but how is it possible today not to see a word about the sustainable and environmental dimension of economic issues? There is virtually no mention of this in this text. Today, it seems to me impossible for advice or institutions to exist at the economic level without being able to also comment on the environmental impacts of an investment decision, for example, on the environmental impacts of competitiveness and on the social impacts of any economic decision. I found it to be sorely lacking in this text. Mr Minister, you have made a commitment in committee – and I hope you will do so in plenary today – that these aspects will be taken into account. I would like it to be added to the text and, above all, among the missions, otherwise we will completely miss out on the major stakes of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u105	Mr President, let us first of all recall the genesis of this National Council of Productivity, which is itself revealing. The idea of this Council is launched by Bruegel, a powerful liberal think tank based in Brussels, rue de la Charité - this is not invented - whose contributing members are states, including the Belgian state, but also central banks and multinationals, such as Amazon, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Google, HSBC, Pfizer, etc. The idea has been taken up by the European Union, which has failed to impose it on the Member States, but which recommends that each Member State set up such an institute. In addition to this doubtful genesis, the usefulness of a National Productivity Council in the Belgian social and institutional landscape raises questions. While this is only a non-binding recommendation of the European Union, why has Belgium decided to set up a body that is likely to duplicate or even compete with the Central Economic Council? In fact, he gave an opinion which suggested that the missions carried out were very similar. So what is the real value of this Council? Does it not meet the hidden objective of short-circuiting the social cooperation practiced within the Central Economic Council on a joint basis? The FGTB is also critical, considering that this National Productivity Council is "a vehicle designed by the European Union to implement its failing policy. Instead of creating a genuine dialogue with the social partners, it provides an additional stepmother who will oversee national policy." Of course, this National Productivity Council will not participate in wage training at national level, which remains in the hands of the social partners, but it will be able, through studies which it will disseminate, to influence the negotiations directly. This is what the European Economic and Social Council is observing about this body, which will therefore have a power to influence wage negotiations. Article 7 of the draft establishes a series of incompatibilities at the level of the members of the Council, but none concerns the business world. Some questionable appointments are likely to occur, as has been the case recently at the National Bank. The stated objective of this body is to promote productivity. However, the productivity of the Belgian worker is already one of the highest in the world. By creating the National Productivity Council, this is tantamount to regretting the lack of growth of already high productivity. On this question of productivity, the options are quite simple: either innovation is improved or downward pressure on wages is maintained. This government has resolutely chosen this last option with all the consequences that we know about the quality of life of workers. In addition, where do we intend to put the limit of this race to productivity? This can be seen in all current social movements in Belgium. We saw it again in the post office debate earlier. The pressure at work becomes untenable. The workers are pressed like lemons. They're getting more and more at the end of the roll. The number of long-term sick workers continues to increase year after year. We're stealing a sad record in a sad record. At the end of 2017, Belgium had some 400,000 long-term patients, an increase of 100,000 patients in five years. Should we not be more concerned about the worrying epidemic of work-related diseases, the worrying burn-out epidemic, the worrying epidemic of musculoskeletal disorders? It is in this sense that the PTB has therefore introduced an amendment to create a National Burnout Council which will aim to systematically assess the impact of productivity and competitiveness developments on the health and well-being of workers. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that you will all vote in favour of this amendment, that is, in favour of the creation of a National Burnout Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u106	Mr. Chair, with respect to this bill, I continue to wonder what the added value of this creation is when other bodies already exist, such as the Plan Bureau, the Central Economic Council, etc. The National Productivity Council is based on a recommendation from the Council of the European Union. In reading the objective pursued, the Council's task is "to study the long-term productivity and competitiveness and the impact and implementation of the recommendations of the European institutions in this respect". Cake on the cake: "The aim of the National Productivity Council is to promote sustained economic growth and convergence." This is exactly the same objective as many institutions. One only adds a layer of lasagna to the structure of the Belgian advisory bodies. The social partners do not carry this prototype. On the other hand, while competences have been regionalized, the federated entities do not participate in this Council. No cooperation agreement brings them in. I understand that their presence is not mandatory, but contact could have been envisaged, particularly at the level of the Consultation Committee, to see if it was interesting to consider voluntary participation. Noting the lack of added value, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur and all the Members for their contributions to the debate. I would like to repeat here that it is not a question of creating an entirely new structure, but rather of setting up a cooperation platform involving the existing bodies. As I have already pointed out, the budget for the operation of the National Productivity Council is very small: 94,000 euros are entered to ensure that the secretariat is maintained. I tried to convince all members that the added value is real. I have given some very concrete elements. The National Productivity Council will centralize the data available in different structures. It will provide a single point of contact for the European Union on productivity issues. It will also be the single point of contact of the federal government in the drafting of the national reform plan. It will make it possible to involve the Regions and the social partners. The aim is not to reorganise the social debate, especially the debate on wages and wage standards. That's not the point at all. It is up to the other bodies, and obviously the social partners, to discuss this. In short, I am convinced, in view of the situation in Belgium regarding productivity, and while there is a European recommendation to create a National Productivity Council, that value added is there. The costs are very limited. We have not created a new structure, but we have tried to cooperate with bodies already active in Belgium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u108	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3279/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3279/3) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u110	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 12(n) • 1 - Marco Van Hees cs (3279/4) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u111	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u112	Sustained: the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u113	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u114	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Gilles Vanden Burre. He refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u116	Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it took you a little while, but it is better to be late than ever, as they say. You have used this time wisely to return to the right path with regard to the defense of the authors, and their right to receive a fair remuneration for the exploitation of their works. It wasn't earned in advance, because in 2015, you gave us a lot of fear, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, when we asked you about the judgment of the Court of Cassation, about the direct injection and about the fact that the answers were not at all reassuring. But you consulted and did it right this time. You didn't listen to just one part of the area. Since I am telling you all this, we will of course vote in favour of this bill. But I have a little request for you. You've been thinking about rights and direct injection again. I ask you to think again about the reprography file. You know that here too, the consequences have a huge loss of profits for the sector. You must also take a firm stance on multinational printers and others, and come back to us with an amendment to your bill with respect to reprography. Then perhaps the authors' rights will be fully respected in Belgium. I also ask you to carry the draft which we are going to vote at European level. It would indeed be good to have European recognition. Holland just did the same thing today. We are on the right track with respect to copyright, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u117	Thank you, Mrs Lalieux, for that explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u118	Mr President, Minister, it is true that the text is important. But the most important thing here is the process. Indeed, a real constructive approach was taken with all the actors, following a text which we analysed, a little over two years ago in the Committee on the Economy, on the financing of the various cultural bodies. It was important for artists, creators and creators to be able to find themselves there, which is the case today. Indeed, they were heard. As parliamentarians, we have all been contacted by the various bodies representing them, particularly with regard to this right of direct injection. Above all, I would like to welcome the process that led to this text. In fact, we could draw inspiration from it for other texts, which we will not fail to do. In any event, the work was done and the consultation took place. It took time, but it resulted in a text that we will be happy to support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u119	Mr President, the text under consideration has long been awaited by the cultural and audiovisual sectors. It is a text that has been the subject of lengthy negotiations, Minister, since we examined the first part of it – if I may say so – more than two years ago. At the time, we really committed you to negotiate with industry representatives and stakeholders. The cultural sector has responded to your expectations. A proposal was tabled on the table to become a bill, after a long negotiation. The result seems to us to be balanced and this view is shared by the sector. That is why we will support the text presented to us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u120	Mr President, I would like to be brief. I thank everyone and will cherish these reactions for another moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u121	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u122	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3300/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3300/3) The draft law contains 18 articles. The bill has 18 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u123	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u124	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3328/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3328/3) The draft law contains 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u128	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is an important draft which sought to achieve greater administrative simplification and to promote the fight against identity fraud. The draft gave rise to hearings in committee. Very many questions were answered very comprehensively by you. An additional opinion was provided by the Data Protection Authority. During the discussions, two amendments were tabled, a rather technical amendment and an amendment by colleagues of the MR, which aims to designate the authorities empowered to read the digital fingerprints. Finally, a vote was taken on the whole by ten yes votes, three no votes and one abstention. I would like to add another comment from the N-VA. We will certainly support this draft, because it increases security, it reduces the administrative burden on citizens, especially in contact with businesses, and it takes due account of respect for privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u130	I shall now give the floor to Mr Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u131	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are considering today is very symbolic. He's talking about privacy. He points out that this government once again threatens this fundamental right for each of our fellow citizens. It has, for the most part, two parts. The first concerns access to data and contained in the National Register. The citizen is unaware of this, but the National Register knows a lot about him. It is an indispensable management tool for public authorities. It is also, at the time of big data, a source of information that does not fail to energize the desires of private actors. In the name of administrative simplification, you want to give access to some of these data to companies that wish to do so. This is essentially about address changes. This is an approach that we could hear in some cases and should then be accompanied by strong and serious beacons. It must be noted, however, that the beacons here are clearly insufficient in our view. On the one hand, in the hands of the Minister of the Interior, the power of authorization of access is brought back into the hands of the Minister of the Interior. The clear conditions to be met are not laid down in the law and there is no provision for prior monitoring of compliance with security standards in relation to the information that is transmitted. On the other hand, ex post checks are referred to the Data Protection Authority, but the latter has already expressed its concerns at the hearings organised on this bill. It will be an important task to carry out these checks, and it does not seem to him that the means available to deal with it are commensurate with the issues at stake. Finally, one relies on the individual responsibility of each citizen, leaving it to him/her to control which companies access his/her data and to oppose it if necessary, which, at the time of spam and cookies that are well entered into habits, does not seem to constitute a particularly strong dam. One can also note the observation of the registrars on this subject, who fear that this provision, applied to judicial officers, encourages the most fragile citizens to seek to disappear from radars through the removal of the registers. This is a concern that it would have been wise to answer. But the most spectacular part of this project is certainly the one aimed at placing on identity cards an image of the holder's fingerprints, a provision which the Minister justifies in two ways: on the one hand, by relying on a European text; on the other, by invoking the fight against identity fraud. Unfortunately, the European text in question is still under discussion and the criticisms against it are strong. The debate is far from over. Based on this text, the plough is placed before the oxen. In addition, I wonder about the binding nature of a text calling for the insertion of fingerprint data on identity documents within an area where several Member States do not have such documents. With regard to identity fraud, the figures presented by the Minister show the disproportion of the reaction: taking the fingerprints of 11 million Belgians for 344 cases of identity fraud which were investigated in 2017. Over five years, there are 400 cases per year at the borders. Is identity control useless? Certainly not! But in this and many others, the notion of proportionality must be at the centre of attention. There is a clear lack of prudence in this case. The measure is disproportionate, as the representatives of the Data Protection Authority, the former Privacy Commission, say. Is it at least effective? We can doubt that. Let's take the problem from the beginning. First, let us remember that it is impossible for someone with bad intentions to usurp an identity to make true papers that would have a false identity. In this case, the presence or absence of fingerprints would make no difference. If the fingerprints match the card holder, there is no reason to doubt his identity and it would be a blow in the water. Secondly, it is still a question of having the technical means to compare the fingerprints of the cardholder and those present on the document. Today, these readers are mainly available in the municipalities and at the borders. These are probably places where a check can be carried out, but in comparison with the number of concrete situations where identity checks are carried out, this is the congruous portion. As we know, it is mainly the police during routine road checks that control the identity of citizens. And they are not equipped with ad hoc equipment. They require a substantial budget and I am sure that this expenditure meets the police's priority needs. In this context, once again, the measure therefore has only a very relative effectiveness, particularly with regard to the intrusion into privacy it represents. But the measure also seems disproportionate. Its effectiveness seems to be at least questionable, but its cost is certain. Is it at least a measure that would not have a perverse effect? We can't even be sure! Civil registrars whose opinion is not unanimous on the subject are of some difficulty. First, it is clear that this measure will require the cardholder to withdraw it himself from the municipality, an obligation which does not currently exist and which is an discomfort for users. More fundamentally, their professional organization also points out that some sections of the population may face serious difficulties in complying with this measure. They cite people with osteoarthritis for whom fingerprinting would be very difficult, if not impossible. But above all, they point out that, contrary to a widespread idea, fingerprints are not an immutable data! For example, manual workers often see their footprints changed over time as a result of their activity or related accidents. We can hardly imagine the difficulties that fingerprints represent as a means of identification. This, moreover, leads to a serious relativization of the principle that they would constitute a particularly secure means of identification. As the CERT representative pointed out, we leave our fingerprints everywhere - by definition. Again, ill-intentioned persons who wish to usurp an identity would not experience insurmountable difficulties in appropriating the fingerprints of a third party. Moreover, this is exactly what happened to the German Minister of Defence, whose prints were subdued in 2014 by usurpers. Finally, I fear that it will become easier to get his fingerprints stolen than to recover his true identity. In short, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if this project seems to us as a whole to be particularly hasty with regard to the commercial use of the data of the National Register, it seems to us above all disproportionate, ineffective and even - in some respects - dangerous when it comes to fingerprinting. The right to privacy and not to be constantly monitored, elevated to a human right, has already been the subject of numerous attacks under this government. Like all even fundamental rights, it can be balanced to ensure that other rights of equal importance are respected. But it's a balance. This text, once again, seems to us to break a still precarious and fragile balance. That is why we will vote against the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u132	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go back to the details of the project. They have been sufficiently developed and are even more so in the report. I would just like to highlight the new instruments offered by the project in the fight against home fraud and identity fraud. These types of fraud can conceal others or be linked to other types of fraud or the commission of certain offences or crimes – one cannot help but think of terrorism. Of course, I am thinking of the registration of fingerprints on identity cards, which is the subject of article 27 of the draft. It sparked a lot of discussion in committee. With the majority, we have tabled an amendment following an observation by the Data Protection Authority to determine in the law itself the authorities entitled to read fingerprints. For the record, these are the staff of the communes, the police, the border control services, the Office of Foreigners, etc. Another instrument is the strengthening of residence controls by municipalities, as referred to in Article 25 of the draft. Where checks do not provide sufficient certainty as to the reality of the principal residence, the project will allow the municipal authorities to ask the energy suppliers for the communication of the consumption records. This can only be requested as a last resort. Another important clarification, also resulting from an amendment that we have tabled, is that the companies concerned will be required to provide the information requested free of charge. I want to commend our government's willingness to provide new tools for administrative simplification. This is an important objective of the bill since the instruments will benefit both public and private bodies and citizens alike. I am thinking here of the communication of data changes in the National Register by the services concerned to private and public bodies under Belgian law. Without going into detail, sufficient guarantees shall govern the exercise of this measure, since the consent of the natural persons concerned must be obtained in advance, but also with regard to the purposes for which the communication may be made. The purposes are clear and detailed in Article 12. Minister, in conclusion, you are pursuing important objectives within the government and this project meets them. Of course, we will support it in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, CD&V supports this draft law. It is a pity that the discussion on the draft is reduced to one article on fingerprints. The draft also provides for a major change to allow the modernisation of civil status services. It must be a final part of the digitisation of civil status, as was worked out, among other things, by Minister Geens. It is true that the design also provides for the registration of the fingerprints on the eID. From April 2019 there will be a fingerprint on the identity card. The proposal to put fingerprints on the identity card came after the attacks of Paris and Brussels, when it appeared that identity fraud allowed several terrorists to travel freely. This has also been demonstrated by the work of the Committee of Inquiry following the attacks. We were indeed confronted with some of the perpetrators of the attacks in Brussels and Paris who had multiple IDs and various aliases. We are also faced with increasing cases of identity fraud in other areas. The inclusion of the fingerprints must therefore include the additional security that the person who offers the eID is actually that person. The photo on the eID, as others have said, is often abused by lookalikes. We also assume that the justification given by the Minister during the discussion in committee is sufficient to justify the proportionality of this measure. That was at the heart of the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. Linking the electronic identity card with a fingerprint identification is useful and reduces the risk of forgery and identity fraud. Fingerprints are already used in international passports. However, travel in the Schengen area does not require an international passport, but an ordinary identity card. This measure introduces an additional security that allows control when entering the Schengen area or travelling within the Schengen area. CD&V is only in favour of this if there is a link with fundamental safeguards on privacy and data protection. The fingerprints are stored on the card itself and not on the chip. There will also be no general database of fingerprints. The manufacturer of the electronic identity card may keep the fingerprints for a maximum of three months. Reading the fingerprints will only be possible for services that are authorised to do so, including police forces, by means of an implementing act. These services alone will also have equipment available to do the reading. The regular card reader chips will therefore not allow the reading of the fingerprints. In our view, all these matters offer sufficient clarity. We shall therefore give our full support to this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u134	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleagues Mr Degroote and Mr Demon have said, this draft law contains more measures, including in the context of administrative simplification or the modernisation of civil status, but on behalf of our group I will focus on the much discussed measure on fingerprints on eID, in the fight against identity fraud. Our group will support the present measure for the inclusion of fingerprints on the eID. The digital image of the index finger of the left and right hand will be integrated on the card. That card, moreover, as the Minister explained in committee, is in line with the highest safety standards. The fingerprints shall be protected by a certificate allowing a reading with a card reader only for agents. Those authorised to do so are also explicitly included in the present draft law. The aim of the measure is, of course, to strengthen the security of citizens' identity cards in the fight against fraud. Moreover, an identical regime already applies to passports in our country. It is clear that our party shares and puts first the concern about the right to privacy and freedom. Any measure which intervenes in this respect must therefore be proportionate to the objective pursued and be minimally implemented. Therefore, our support for this draft law has not come about lightly. That is why I would like to briefly zoom in on the history of the file. For example, we note that fingerprints will under no circumstances be stored and centralised. In other words, there is no provision for central storage. They are only stored for the duration necessary to create the card and therefore no longer than three months. Then they'll be destroyed. The Minister's initial proposal included a central, although secure, storage of fingerprints at the National Registry, with a broader finality in the context of the overall fight against crime. The minister got the mustard from Morocco for that. That proposal went too far for us. During a super-Ministerial Council in 2017, the proposal was revised at the initiative of our group. Ladies and gentlemen, another not to be underestimated argument to support this measure concerns the direction that Europe is currently pursuing in this area. With this measure, we are taking the lead in Europe today and we are leading the way. Indeed, on 17 April 2018, the European Commission put forward a proposal for a regulation to improve the security elements on EU citizens' identity cards and thus prevent the use of fraudulent documents. Terrorists and criminals can use these documents to enter the European Union from a third country. The European Commission intends to require the use of biometric data for countries issuing identity cards. Ladies and gentlemen, the latter recommendation has now been incorporated into a proposal which will make the inclusion of two fingerprints on identity cards compulsory. Such biometric data will only be used to verify the authenticity of the card and to verify the identity of the holder. Moreover, Europe's intention is to adopt the proposal by the end of this year. So the European obligation is to come anyway. I would like to remind you of a few figures. In 2016, we read in the Action Plan for a strong European response to travel document fraud that there is a high demand for EU travel documents among fraudsters. The eID is also a travel document. At least three quarters of the detected fraudulent documents state that they would have been issued in an EU Member State or a Schengen country. According to recent reports by the European Border and Coast Guard, less secure national identity cards have been issued by Member States, the most frequently detected false documents when travelling in the Schengen area. Lookalike fraud, where the document holder is simply very similar to the actual owner, also continues to increase and the type of fraud most reported in the second quarter of 2016. In Belgium, in fact, since the introduction of the new eIDs in 2005, we have seen a sharp drop in the number of forged cards. The bar to falsify an eID became so high that there was a shift to lookalike fraud and the false acquisition of real documents through the municipalities, based on a false name or photo. This was also confirmed in the hearings by the municipal representatives. The figures of the national SPOC Identity fraud in relation to the number of files opened, based on reports from the municipalities, indicate an increase. The figures show that fraud involving fingerprints is falling against the eID, which is becoming a weak link and is increasingly being used for identity fraud. The police, ladies and gentlemen, also see an increase in attempts at fraud through lookalikes or the false acquisition of a real document in the name of someone else. Without an additional biometric element such as the fingerprint, it is very difficult to detect such fraud. A photograph alone, as one can imagine, does not always provide sufficient conclusiveness to guarantee the true identity of a data subject quickly and efficiently. With the fingerprint attached, fraudsters inevitably fall through the basket. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that identity fraud is usually also a cover for committing other criminal offences. These include trafficking in human beings, fraud, criminals who want to stay under the radar, Syrian fighters who want to enter illegal Europe, potential terrorists and so on. There were effective hearings and opinions on this subject. During the hearings and written opinions, representatives of the public services in Wallonia and Flanders were in favour of fingerprints on the eID. The right to privacy is, of course, a fundamental human right, but the right to security is also important. A constant balance must be made between the two. Of course, it is also important that a government does not abuse its powers. Our group believes that the draft submitted is sufficiently proportionate for the reasons set out above. There will also have to be a constant balance in the coming years. It will remain a difficult balancing exercise between privacy and security. This remains an important challenge for the future. However, we believe that the measure currently envisaged is proportionate and will therefore receive our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u135	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this dossier was followed by my colleague, Mr Top, for our group. He is also rapporteur, but since he is currently on a parliamentary mission, you will have to deal with me. I will not repeat what colleagues from the other groups have already said. However, I would like to quote a few elements from the downright destructive opinions of our Data Protection Authority. As a result, the first version of this draft law was amended in its entirety. As a result, the initial intention, the fight against terrorists and the promotion of the general sense of security are also in ruins. They wanted to create a central database of DNA data, especially fingerprints. According to the GBA, the government's motivation to build such a database was not entirely clear and it is simply about overshooting if one wants to collect the fingerprints of all Belgians. Who's gonna do anything with it in the future? The texts were therefore plundered back to registering the fingerprints on the ID card itself, without collecting them in a central database. Many Members of this House have received many distressed e-mails or letters about this draft. Some groups even took action in pleading to lose the ID card. Then you will be safe for ten years, because then you will quickly get a new ID card that is valid for ten years and without that fingerprint obligation. Nice civil disobedience, but it's really not funny. In committee, almost all opposition members pointed out the many risks associated with storing and making accessible such data, especially to parties other than the government. Certainly in the light of the comments of the GBA, there are a number of problems concerning legality, subsidiarity and proportionality. There really are not enough guarantees for the protection of the individual. A number of arguments were put forward in the Committee on the Interior, which are very important. Firstly, the exemption of the authorisation to consult the personal data is being handled too loosely. Secondly, the reasons for these exemptions are too broad and too vaguely defined, which means that many people in and outside the government are given a wide discretion to consult sensitive personal data. Thirdly, there is insufficient control over the illegal use of such access. Fourthly, too much data becomes too freely accessible to too many people whose competence and ability to act responsibly is not sufficiently aligned or provided for. There are too many vague provisions which give access open and uncontrolled to many people for whom the importance or proportionality of their access has not been sufficiently demonstrated, especially for those who are not directly linked to the public authorities and are therefore less bound by deontological requirements. Fifthly, we also find it unacceptable that the citizen should not be given any knowledge or control over who will be the exact recipient of his data. After all, this is in conflict with the new GDPR legislation. Mr President, Minister, the government should be given more power in the fight against serious crime, trafficking in human beings and terror, but registering fingerprints of everyone, including good grannies, is a form of overshooting. The pendulum's gone crazy. If such data really need to be collected and stored, we want them to be accessible only under the strictest possible conditions and only for the most strictly controlled security services that have an absolute interest in it. The GBA issued a negative opinion on the registration of fingerprints on the chip of the identity card on the basis of the arguments that such registration does not comply with the principle of proportionality and that the comparison with passports is not relevant. With regard to passports, the body also reiterates that specific European legislation obliges Member States to collect fingerprints. Minister, you say that the ID cards are also travel documents, which is quite testable. Several EU countries do not have ID cards. International travel can often only be done with a passport, for example in the US. Finally, many references were made to European legislation in the committee. It is in the making and is under heavy attack, precisely because of the criticisms that we also raised in the discussion, not only about privacy, but also about a huge number of technical cards, different types of ID cards in Europe, and practical objections, such as the logistics associated with the registration of fingerprints and facial features. I would certainly also advise you to go and look at the Dutch neighbours. There the proposed measure was introduced and in the meantime withdrawn, mainly because of the limited controls and doubts as to the usefulness of the measure. Ladies and gentlemen, our group will be voting against. The majority who will enthusiastically print the green yes button, I would like to see it again in a few years' time when an evaluation of this law will show that it was a measure of nothing, which would not be so bad. However, if there is to be a government that centralises the fingerprints of ID cards, then we will only have problems with their use and misuse. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, be careful where you place your fingers from today, because the consequences cannot be less.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u136	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this text deals with national registers and speaks of various provisions in its title. It does contain certain provisions which are quite positive and which I am not going to go back to because, as I said in committee, there are a whole series of things with which we would have had no problems and which we could even have encouraged. As the CD&V colleague said, we had a long discussion on an article. Yes, but this article is for us, as for many colleagues – I believe – fundamental because it clearly illustrates the importance of the balance between individual freedom, the necessary protection of our fellow citizens and the necessary security of our fellow citizens so that they can live, move and feel safe in their country, in their region, in their neighbourhood. You also include this text in the fight against terrorism. In this respect, we have had a lot of debate, unfortunately, I would say, because we must have had them in view of the dramatic attacks in Belgium and neighbouring countries. This has always been a debate that we wanted to take to heart at the level of environmentalists because it is important to put a cursor and find the balance between individual freedom, data protection and necessary security measures. The article I am talking about is Article 27 which introduces fingerprints on identity cards. This text has had a chaotic legislative process. Indeed, a first text, delivered a little less than a year ago, had received an initial opinion from the Privacy Commission according to its former name, now the Data Protection Authority. At that time, Minister, you had withdrawn the text. Then, a few weeks ago, you came back, in committee, with a new text that, on the substance of Article 27, does not change the criticisms that we can have – and we are not the only ones. Basically, because that is what this is about, the objective behind the measure you are proposing is to combat identity document fraud. Well, if that is the case, it's a laudable goal. My group and I support the fight against fraud in identity documents, and fraud in identity cards in particular. But the central question is: does it take the footprints of the 11 million Belgians to achieve this very relevant objective? For us, this is the issue at the heart of this important debate. This presents us with great problems in terms of proportionality and efficiency. Why efficiency? We have had this debate in committee, and we are not going to war figures; but overall, the number of identity card frauds is decreasing. I have here the text of an answer that you have given to my colleague Mr Benoit Hellings, who has regularly asked you about the question. At Belgian level, there are 655 frauds in 2014 and 397 in 2015. These figures come from the Central Office for the Suppression of False Documents. At European level, the trend is the same. We are not going to fight the figures, but what is certain is that there are a few hundred cases in Belgium, and that the trend is downwards at Belgian and European level. As far as proportionality is concerned, it is not acceptable for us that, in order to achieve this objective, a system should be set up taking the impressions of the 11 million Belgian citizens. That is the basis of our argument. In terms of efficiency, it's the same thing. We consider that this measure is not effective, as fraudsters are absolutely not targeted. It should be possible to target fraudsters, who provide false documents to malfeasance and ill-intentioned persons. Others have already said that it is true that the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks, particularly in Belgium and France, had false identity documents. But is it effective to take the fingerprints of the 11 million Belgians in order to be able to pursue this objective? In our view, the answer is negative. Mr Minister, you spoke of ideology during the debates in committee, calling us ideologues because we are defending this point of view as a cursor, as a balance against our individual freedoms. We are opposed to massive surveillance of the purpose of identity document fraud. But, in our view, this is in fact also an ideological measure. It's an ideological measure of your government. You want to put in place measures that we consider extremely safe and that we do not see as effective. And you justify this by certain objectives which absolutely do not correspond in terms of proportionality. I therefore believe that ideology is not on our side. I take as evidence the hearings and reports that we have had, in particular, from the Data Protection Authority, which clearly states – and I repeat here its opinion which was given to us in September – that there is no real justification for the measure envisaged. We can't be clearer. That's exactly what I've shown. The Authority also argues with figures but I do not go into the details. There is the fact that identity document fraud is declining in Europe and Belgium and that safeguards for such an intrusive massive surveillance measure are not in place. I would point out that the Data Protection Authority is an independent, neutral body and has delivered a negative opinion twice on your first text and on it. It is also important to be able to calmly analyze what is said here. We did not wish to hear them again following the answers you gave in committee, since you are sweeping all these arguments with a back of your hand. But for us, it's not right. It is unacceptable to go into force like this, in the light of all these arguments. I conclude with a final argument which is also pointed out by the Authority. It's the risk of hacking. Indeed, if tomorrow ill-intentioned people want to "hacker" our identity cards, next to our address, our municipality, our civil status, they will also have access to our identity prints. Again, the safeguards are not in place to avoid such risks of hacking. The conditions are absolutely not met. If I were to conclude, I'd say we're using a bazooka here to kill a fly. Minister, I have already told you in committee. Honestly, the balance between individual freedom, necessary security and the fight against fraud in identity documents is absolutely not there. This measure is completely unbalanced with regard to the objective, which, in turn, is commendable. We can already fight to reach it with the means that exist. As evidence, this scourge of identity document fraud is on the decline. No, Minister, we cannot support this text, and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u137	Mr President, Minister, I naturally agree with what my colleague, Mr Vanden Burre, has said, which has closely followed the dossier in the Committee on the Interior. Indeed, this draft is in line with many of the measures announced in recent years in the fight against terror. We have already discussed several proposals in the Committee on the Interior and in the Committee on Justice. I will not repeat all my colleague's arguments as to why we cannot support this text. I would like to mention another aspect. This is an important design, but it has a remarkable history. There have been remarkable pirouettes in this area in the government parties. We are well aware that the proposal first appeared after a trip to Morocco, and even before that, as the Prime Minister said. Let me say that it has come to the fore after a trip to Morocco in 2016, with the Prime Minister and, if I am not mistaken, also with Secretary of State Francken, for the conclusion of certain agreements. At least you were there, and so was the Prime Minister. Then the idea arose of fingerprinting the identity card. A debate on this issue took place on 3 March 2016 during Question Time in the Chamber. The Prime Minister was questioned about this proposal. I must honestly say that there was an immediate reaction from the liberal party. I remember Vice Prime Minister De Croo saying:no pasarán for the cameras of Villa Politica on March 3, 2016! Secretary of State Tommelein also said, "Nope." A debate was held here during the plenary session. It was our esteemed colleague Lahaye-Battheu who intervened on behalf of the Open Vld. I reread her speech. Well, it could have been an argument from our group. I thought it was a real liberal position, which I missed a little bit after that. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu said the following, and I quote: "Of course, there is no problem with keeping fingerprints of people who pose a risk to our society. What is the point, however, of claiming, keeping and using the fingerprints of millions of Belgians, if the government so wishes? Is that proportionate to the problem? Is everyone suddenly suspicious, Prime Minister? What happens to freedom of movement in Europe if we introduce such a system in our little Belgium, when the other European countries do not know it? Then what's the point? What is the cost of such a system? Last but not least, what about the legal side and the legality?" And she continues: "These arguments are still unrelated to our concerns about privacy. I am looking at the Secretary of State, who has responded from that point of view." That was then a reference to the ruling of Secretary of State Tommelein. "In short," she concludes, "Open Vld wants to focus primarily on efficient management of current databases and information, rather than collecting as much data as possible." It's remarkable, isn't it? We have had the Super-Minister's Council and have made some changes to the initial ideas that were launched at that time, but we finally see today that the text is before us. Perhaps somewhat weakened compared to the first, initial proposals that were launched. But what exactly happened? Why is this concern about privacy suddenly gone? Why is there no concern about proportionality? There is clearly no proportionality in this measure. In his reply, the Prime Minister said that this had already been discussed at the heart of the matter and that the idea was not stopped. He said that on 3 March 2016. He also said that everyone was free to re-launch the proposal, with new elements, and that there were four parties and there had to be an agreement between four parties. On 3 March 2016, it was found that there was no agreement between the four parties, now almost three years later, that agreement is apparently there. What exactly happened is unclear. In any case, we deeply regret that this draft is ultimately before the vote three years later. As has been said, we will not support this text because it is not proportionate. We are doing overshooting here, and that is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u138	Mr Van Hecke, I believe that this bill has come about to improve safety. If you don't like all of this and if you think privacy is totally violated, what is your alternative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u139	Mr Degroote, we have worked very constructively with our group in the debate on security in recent years. I myself worked for a year and a half in the Committee of Inquiry into the attacks. We have produced a report there which was unanimously approved. That report proposes a lot of measures. This measure was not included in that report. This is mainly about better cooperation, better communication between services. I can list all of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u140	I do not doubt your principles and your good attitude, but what do you propose as an alternative? That's my only question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u141	This measure is not proportionate to us. We are going to ask the fingerprint of 11.3 million inhabitants for a problem mainly related to identity fraud and terrorism. Why should this far-reaching measure be imposed on 11.3 million people? For us, this is overshooting and not proportional. Look at the negative advice of the former privacy committee. I think this is clear enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u142	So there's no need for anything else?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u143	This measure is neither proportionate nor necessary for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u144	I would have liked to ask Mr Van Hecke a question. You're talking about two years ago. You know as well as I do that at that time it was still about saving to a file. I do not hear that in your speech. Today it is no longer about saving all the data in a file. This is also an essential difference for us. I still think this is important to indicate. In your plea, you are right to quote a few texts and statements, but forget that this has been modified and that those data are no longer stored in a file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u145	Mr President, I have just indicated that changes have been made between the initial and final proposals. That is one of the changes that has indeed been made. Initially, the proposal was far more far-reaching. That is indeed and course the route corrected. However, the result is that fingerprints of 11.3 million Belgians are still required in this country, to place them on the identity card. That remains a disproportionate measure for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u146	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the National Register of Natural Persons and the identity card have acquired an importance and a daily treatment that could never have been imagined when they were created. The identity card no longer serves only, as its name indicates, to authenticate an individual's identity, but is increasingly required in citizens' dealings with both public and private organizations. It is true that the result, in particular in the event of a change of address or death, is an increasingly burdensome administrative procedure which should be simplified. The simplification objective pursued by the bill could be commendable at first glance, provided that sufficient safeguards are provided for the protection of privacy. Of course, the draft provides for the express consent of the person concerned to be obtained in order to communicate the transfers made by the National Register to certain bodies. That's the least I can do. However, for the rest, the hearings held in committee did not confirm the adequacy of the other guarantees provided for. This is particularly the case for fingerprinting on the ID chip. We are told that the objective of this measure is to strengthen the fight against identity fraud, which is very often used to commit other more serious offences. Of course, the fight against identity fraud, white marriages and fraudulent recognition is legally worth strengthening. However, in order to pursue these legitimate objectives, the means used must be proportionate. However, as stated by the Data Protection Authority, the prohibition of the processing of biometric data for the purpose of identifying natural persons remains the principle, unless specific and restrictive conditions are laid down to derogate from it. In the present case, and in the opinion of the experts interviewed, this is not the case or, in any case, it is not the case in a satisfactory way, both in the light of the interference in privacy represented by the taking of fingerprints as a preventive measure, and of the absence of a significant phenomenon of identity fraud which would justify such a derogation from the principle recalled by the High Authority in Belgium. The Autorité adds that, in its current form, the identity card is sufficiently secure thanks to the hologram and the smart card it contains, in addition to the fact that, in its view, no report of the Police Council or any opinion of the College of Attorneys General refers to large-scale forgery. In addition, no expert was able to confirm the thesis of the government majority that the location of the fingerprints, not on the visible smart card, but on a new so-called "invisible" chip, would ensure the security of the system. Moreover, it is clear that in the only three European countries that take fingerprints when issuing identity cards - Spain, Portugal and Italy - the system is criticized by both human rights organisations and security experts. For example, France had to foresee, at the time of the creation of its recent TES file, that users could refuse to digitise and record their fingerprints in the context of this file. However, I would like to make it clear that, given the freedom of movement prevailing in the European Union, which applies to identity cards - and not to passports in which biometric data are indeed recorded - and to the use of the former - and not the latter, for reasons other than travel abroad - the parallelism between these two documents does not seem to me to justify applying this method to identity cards. In order to comply with the numerous criticisms of the experts and, in particular, of the Data Protection Authority, the majority of the Government has submitted only one amendment to designate the authorities entitled to read fingerprints on the identity card chip. This includes municipal staff responsible for issuing cards; police services, in the course of their anti-fraud missions; border control staff; the Foreign Office; the FPS Foreign Affairs; and companies responsible for producing identity cards. To justify this minimal and insufficient change by decree, the majority takes refuge behind the argument that Belgium must go at all costs to this system, since this is a request from the European Commission. However, as the Data Protection Authority states in its opinion, this is not the case. The European Commission has only introduced a proposal for a European regulation which, contrary to the draft law, lists in a limited way the purposes for which fingerprints could be used and which, despite this very strict framework, has been criticized by the European Data Protection Supervisor. The new procedure for access to the data of the National Register, whereby the Minister of the Interior will grant not only access to the Register, but also to the central files of identity cards and foreign cards, also raises questions. Contrary to what is provided for fingerprints, a limited list of companies authorised to request data from the National Register has not been provided for. This greatly surprised the grouping of the agents responsible for the management of the communal services of population and civil status - yet initially partisan, on the principle, of your bill. This list was indeed indispensable since by extending this access to all associations pursuing a mission of general interest, the project opens the door to risks of drifts in the processing of personal data, which the recent General Data Protection Regulation tends to reduce or even eliminate. Therefore, and given the absence of a formal analysis of these risks, my group, Défi, will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u147	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, two provisions of this bill are inconvenient. The first provision is intended to allow companies to use certain data from the National Register. The aim would be to "reduce considerably the administrative harassment faced by citizens in their contacts with businesses". The law provides that companies may automatically receive transfers of certain data from the National Register of a person with whom they have a contract. As the bill explicitly states, these businesses do not necessarily pursue a general interest goal. This therefore implies a real danger. During the hearings, the representative of the Groupement des Agents Population Rétat civil expressed surprise at this provision. I quote: "Even if access is to be provided by or under a law, decree or order, and this must be necessary for the performance of tasks of general interest, the risk of misappropriation of the primary purpose seems important." Moreover, in the future, it will be the Minister of the Interior who will decide whether and why companies receive permission to access data from the National Register. Although companies will be able to use the data only within the limits of the purposes listed by law and commercial or advertising purposes are excluded, the bill does not provide enough controls to prevent abuse. Several speakers, including the Data Protection Authority, spoke during the hearings to denounce the lack of staff to monitor authorisations. I now come to the second unbudgetable provision in this draft. It is the one that provides for the registration of fingerprints on the identity card. There is strong opposition to this measure, including in public opinion. On Twitter is developing a whole movement, under the hashtag "ikweiger", "jerefuse". Many experts themselves expressed their disapproval. In addition, the Data Protection Authority has issued a negative opinion on the draft law, and in particular on the provision concerning fingerprints. The Minister claims that fingerprinting is necessary to prevent falsification of identity documents. However, the discussions in committee and during the hearings revealed significant doubts about this need, the effectiveness and the proportionality of the measure. On the necessity, several speakers have shown that the number of cases of identity document fraud remains very limited, and even decreases at the national and international levels. Several speakers also referred to the fact that fingerprints are not an effective tool to prevent fraud. The fingerprints can be stolen very easily. The fight against identity card fraud requires more awareness, investment and personnel for digital research, and superior data protection through advanced encryption. Moreover, fingerprints are not effective in the fight against terrorism, as the vast majority of terrorists use their own identities. Finally, given the limited number of cases of fraud and the significant infringements of citizens' privacy, the question of proportionality should be asked. The fact that the entire population has to record their fingerprints is a serious violation of privacy. According to the Data Protection Authority, the comparison with the passport is not on the road, given its widespread impact. Even Eubelius, the law firm founded by one of the ministers of this government, confirms that travelling is a choice and that being a citizen is not. In short, most experts believe that this measure is highly disproportionate. What a contrast, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to combating major tax fraud! There, the right always invokes respect for privacy, when it comes to attacking the big fraudsters. There, privacy is important. But a Big Brother measure that aims to spy on the 11 million Belgians, it can pass. For these reasons, the PTB will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u148	Mr President, I would like to briefly explain my amendment in the general discussion. I have tabled an amendment because there is still a piece missing from the National Register today. This is evident from the answers we received to the written questions put by our group to the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Jambon. It concerns, in particular, the data of people who, in addition to Belgian nationality, also have a different nationality. According to the Minister of Justice, the data in the National Register are not only incomplete, they are also not up to date in the sense that the National Register does not provide an overview of persons who, at the time the data is requested from the database, have multiple nationality. So that overview cannot be given. The Minister for the Interior has also confirmed this in response to a written question. He stated literally: "The National Register of Natural Persons does not include any information relating to the dual nationality of persons who have acquired Belgian citizenship." However, for several reasons, I think it is important that every person who has Belgian nationality should also have a clear conscience as to whether he has one or more other nationalities, if that information is requested. It is therefore the intention of the amendment to be able to give a final answer to this and thus to include it in the national register.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you very much for your comments in the debate, which is important. As Minister for Security, I have always pointed out that security policy must be a balanced policy. Many balances must be taken into account. Respecting privacy is, of course, an important element in this. Two speakers, Mr. Thiébaut and Mr. Van Hees, dealt with Article 26 on administrative simplification. Both speakers said that there are not enough or insufficient benchmarks in this bill. We have dealt with all these points during the debates in committee. So I'm going to be very brief. The bill contains a dozen key elements, including: - the express consent of the citizen; - the citizen may withdraw his or her consent at any time; - the citizen may at any time verify with which company he or she has given his or her consent; - the aim is only to adapt files containing customers' personal data and the law prohibits the use of the information obtained for commercial purposes; - this is only possible when the citizen has a lasting contractual relationship with the company (just being a customer is not enough); - any company wishing to use these services of the National Register must obtain an authorization from the Minister of the Interior (a procedure is in place); - as soon as the agreement or contract between the undertaking and the citizen is terminated, the undertaking is obliged to communicate it immediately to the National Register. We are talking about providing data from the National Register to the company. It is not the company that has access to the databases. Companies cannot actively consult the National Register, but they receive the information in the circumstances I have just named. And so I repeat once again that we are not talking about commercial purposes here. I come to the other debate on Article 27 on fingerprints. Mr Van Hecke, there are many people in my party who are concerned with history. That is why I want to correct your intervention, to be historically correct. It's true what you're saying. The debate started when we were in Morocco with a number of ministers and the Secretary of State, and so we also visited the Moroccan data centre, in which they have already digitally tracked the fingerprints of some 30 million Moroccans at the moment. There were journalists in our wake. While we were on the plane, journalists indicated that the government was in favour of the initiative. When the plane returned, I immediately stated that the initiative was not on the agenda. I have never put on the table of the government any proposal in this respect from any of the four parties, not even my party, which is a proposal to set up databases. The only proposal we have discussed is to prevent the placing of digital fingerprints on the identity card without a database and with one objective identity fraud. I'd like to give that to history for what it's worth. As regards proportionality, figures for 2014 and 2015 were cited. I am adding more, from the SPOC of the National Register: 402 files in 2016; 796 files in 2017; in 2018, we are already at 955! Among these files, identity card-specific fraud accounted for 230 cases in 2016; 467 cases in 2017, and already 576 in 2018. You'll tell me that 500 files are very little. But the figures are constantly increasing and it is wrong to say that the phenomenon is decreasing. We had this debate in committee. For me, it is entirely justified because beacons are essential. Nothing's a coincidence. Today there was a communication from the Council of the European Union that an agreement was reached at 11:00 this morning. "Better security for ID documents: Council agrees its position'. It clearly states: "Security standards for ID-cards will also need to include a photo"..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So not on the chip, but contactless. That's exactly what we're doing here. An agreement has been reached on this subject within the Council of the European Union. Belgium is taking the lead in this. This is not just the case here; we have taken the lead in PNR. Colleagues, it may well be that this country is taking the lead. I am pleased and would like to thank the majority parties for supporting this draft. I am convinced that we are taking another step towards a safer society here. As I have said countless times, one measure is never enough, it is about the multitude of measures. This measure is again an essential step towards strengthening the security architecture in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u150	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u151	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3256/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3256/04) The draft law has 31 articles. The bill has 31 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u152	Art. 6 • 7 - Barbara Pas cs (3256/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u153	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Article 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u154	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5 and 7 to 31.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u155	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u156	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u158	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3277/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3277/3) The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u159	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u160	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u161	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u162	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3305/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3305/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u163	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u164	In accordance with Article 46 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, this proposal is to be approved by the Court. Pursuant to article 46 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, this proposal must be approved by the Chamber. The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Brecht Vermeulen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled. The vote on the proposal to amend the establishment plan and the language framework of the Data Protection Authority will take place later. The vote on the proposal to adapt the organic and linguistic frameworks of the Data Protection Authority will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u165	In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 233 (1) of the Law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, this draft should be submitted to the Chamber for approval. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 233(1) of the Law of 30 July 2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data, this draft must be submitted for the approval of the Chamber. The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Luk Van Biesen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled. The vote on the draft Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Body on the police information will take place later. The vote on the draft rules of procedure of the Police Information Review Body will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u166	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a councillor to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The next item is the election for the appointment of an adviser to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 20 September 2018. Nominations were announced in plenary on September 20, 2018. The Sub-Committee "Rekenhof' heard all candidates on 16 October 2018. Mr Luk Van Biesen, Chair of the Subcommittee, reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 7 November 2018. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors heard all the candidates on 16 October 2018. Mr Luk Van Biesen, Chairman of the Sub-Committee, reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 7 November 2018. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed (3358/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (3358/1). The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. In order to vote, one has to place a cross in the box opposite the name of the chosen candidate. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. I propose that the two youngest Members who have now taken their seats at the Bureau should be appointed for the vote. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members sitting on the bureau to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u167	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u168	The next item is the vote on the appointment of the chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. The next item is the election for the appointment of the Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 26 September 2018. Nominations were announced in plenary on 26 September 2018. On 5 and 12 November 2018, the candidates were heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee P and of the Standing Committee I. Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mr David Clarinval reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2018. On 5 and 12 November 2018, the Special Parliamentary Committee of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R held the hearing of the candidates. Laurette Onkelinx and David Clarinval reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 14 November 2018. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed (3364/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (3364/1). We agreed at the Conference of Presidents that today we will only appoint the President, the other Members will be appointed next week. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u169	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u170	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: Draft law establishing a framework for the security of network and information systems of general interest for public security, No. 3340/1. Draft law establishing a framework for the security of networks and information systems of general interest for public safety, No. 3340/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u171	Mr. Chair, the government is calling for urgency on the bill to establish a framework for the security of public safety networks and information systems. This is the transposition of Directive 2016/1148 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures to ensure a common high level of network and information system security in the Union. According to the deadline, it was to be transposed by 9 May 2018. However, the Act implementing the Directive was adopted by the European Commission several months late, resulting in an additional period of time. It was originally to be adopted by 9 August 2017, but was adopted by 30 January 2018. Therefore, we must adopt the transposition of this directive as soon as possible, since the deadline has already been exceeded. This bill should therefore be dealt with as a matter of urgency in order to ensure that the safety measures provided for in the directive are implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u172	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u173	Draft law amending the Law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin, No. 3346/1. Draft law amending the Law of 5 July 1994 on blood and blood derivatives of human origin, No. 3346/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u174	Mr President, the draft before us makes a number of important changes which will further align Belgian legislation with European legislation. The relaxations included in this bill will provide enough plasma to meet Belgian needs, without risk to the quality or safety of blood and blood derivatives. In addition, the age limit of 71 years is removed. This amendment must also be implemented quickly, as the last donation of a donor over the age of 65 cannot go back more than three years, otherwise the donor in question is refused and, as a result, we would lose donors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u175	I would just like to thank the government for these clarifications and to inform it, moreover, that the text was voted on yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u176	This does not prevent us from asking for urgency. I can only submit this request to the House. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u177	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mrs Els Van Hoof) amending the law of 19 April 2014 on alternative collective investment undertakings and their managers to facilitate impact funds, No. 3362/1; - the bill (Mr Roel Deseyn) amending Article 145/33 of the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to encourage donations to cultural institutions, No. 3363/1; - the bill (Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Stefaan Vercamer) amending various provisions relating to advantages for sports clubs, No. 3365/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u178	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Ms Els Van Hoof) amending the Act of 19 April 2014 on alternative collective investment undertakings and their managers with a view to promoting impact funds, No 3362/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Roel Deseyn) amending Article 145/33 of the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to encourage liberalities in favour of cultural institutions, No. 3363/1; - the bill (MM. Roel Deseyn and Stefaan Vercamer) amending various provisions as regards the advantages enjoyed by sports clubs, No 3365/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u179	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u180	Votes 129 Votants Blank or invalid 1 White or invalid Valid 128 Valables Perfect majority 65 Absolute majority Mr Alain Bolly has received one vote. Mr Alain Bolly obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Danielle Caron has obtained 0 votes. Mrs Danielle Caron won 0 votes. Mr Elie Doyez obtained 0 votes. Mr. Elie Doyez won 0 votes. Mrs Fabienne Görrler has received 60 votes. Ms Fabienne Görrler won 60 votes. Mr Dominique Guide obtained 0 votes. Mr. Dominique Guide obtained 0 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert obtained 18 votes. Olivier Hubert won 18 votes. Mr Laurent Jans obtained 0 votes. Mr. Laurent Jans won 0 votes. Mr Christophe Leguier obtained 0 votes. Mr Christophe Legulier won 0 votes. Mr Cédric Libert obtained 0 votes. Mr Cédric Libert obtained 0 votes. Mr Louis Pol obtained 0 votes. Mr. Louis Pol won 0 votes. Mr Harry Poznantek obtained 0 votes. Harry Poznantek won 0 votes. Mrs Pascale Stenne has obtained 0 votes. Mrs Pascale Stenne won 0 votes. Mrs Florence Thys has received 46 votes. Florence Thys won 46 votes. Mr Eric Vansteenkiste obtained three votes. Mr. Eric Vansteenkiste won three votes. Since no candidate has obtained an absolute majority, the Chamber should proceed to a second vote. As no candidate has obtained an absolute majority, a second ballot is required. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u181	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u182	This interplay was held in plenum on 8 November 2018. This inquiry was developed in plenary session on 8 November 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 286/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Evita Willaert; A simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and Mr Richard Miller, Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Luk Van Biesen. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 286/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Evita Willaert; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter De Roover et Richard Miller, Mme Sonja Becq et M. Luk Van Biesen. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Rules of Procedure provide for two minutes for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate my appeal of last week, particularly to the attention of all women in the hemisphere and also to all men who wish to show solidarity, to vote against the appointment of Steven Vanackere to the National Bank. In 2018, it is unacceptable that the management committee of such an important institution in our country will once again consist exclusively of men. Ladies and gentlemen, for the women in our country, you can give the very strong signal with your voice that we no longer accept such men's clubs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u185	Mr President, for today's votes, as for those of previous weeks, I would like to join my friend and colleague Luc Gustin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u186	Mr President, I will abstain because of a number of different opinions expressed by myself and because I have a vote with Mr Luk Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u187	Mr President, I have a vote with Mrs Grosemans.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u188	Mr President, I have a vote with Mrs Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u189	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u190	Yes 73 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u191	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Maya Detiège cs to insert an article 16/1(n). (3297/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Maya Detiège cs to insert an Article 16/1(n). (3297/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 51 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Sarah Schlitz voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 11 from Maya Detiège cs to insert an Article 16/2(n). (3297/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Maya Detiège cs to insert an Article 16/2(n). (3297/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u192	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Karine Lalieux cs on article 22. (3297/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 22. (3297/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 49 Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Karine Lalieux cs on article 22. (3297/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 22. (3297/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u193	The amendment was therefore rejected. Article 287 is adopted in Article 22. Article 22 is adopted/ Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Article 287 of Article 22 was adopted. Article 22 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u194	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[74]] Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3297/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3297/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u195	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3263/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3263/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mrs Stéphanie Thoron voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u196	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an article 12(n). (3279/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an Article 12(n). (3279/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 7 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u197	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 82 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3279/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3279/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u198	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3300/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3300/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u199	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3328/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3228/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u200	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 6. (3256/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 6. (3256-5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u201	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[74]] Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 130 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (32566) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3256/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Colleagues, too many people didn't vote. (Vote No. 12 is cancelled) (Voting No 12 is cancelled) We therefore resume the vote on this draft resolution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3277/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3277/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u203	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3305/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3305/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u204	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u205	Yes 125 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. (3331/2) Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. (3331/2) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Kristof Calvo has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u206	Votes 128 Votants Blank or invalid 1 White or invalid Valid 127 Valables Perfect majority 64 Absolute majority Ms. Johanna Erard received one vote. Johanna Erard won one vote. Mrs Kathleen Stinckens received 125 votes. Ms Kathleen Stinckens won 125 votes. Mr Jan Van den Berghe received one vote. M. Jan Van den Berghe a obtenu 1 suffrage. Ms Kathleen Stinckens, who received 125 votes, this is the full majority, has been appointed chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Ms. Kathleen Stinckens, having obtained 125 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is hereby declared Chairperson of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u207	Votes 129 Votants Blank or invalid 1 White or invalid Valid 128 Valables Perfect majority 65 Absolute majority Mr Alain Bolly has received one vote. Mr Alain Bolly obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Danielle Caron has obtained 0 votes. Mrs Danielle Caron won 0 votes. Mr Elie Doyez obtained 0 votes. Mr. Elie Doyez won 0 votes. Mrs Fabienne Görrler has received 60 votes. Ms Fabienne Görrler won 60 votes. Mr Dominique Guide obtained 0 votes. Mr. Dominique Guide obtained 0 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert received 12 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert obtained 12 votes. Mr Laurent Jans obtained 0 votes. Mr. Laurent Jans won 0 votes. Mr Christophe Leguier obtained 0 votes. Mr Christophe Legulier won 0 votes. Mr Cédric Libert obtained 0 votes. Mr Cédric Libert obtained 0 votes. Mr Louis Pol has obtained one vote. Mr. Louis Pol obtained 1 vote. Mr Harry Poznantek obtained 0 votes. Harry Poznantek won 0 votes. Mrs Pascale Stenne has obtained 0 votes. Mrs Pascale Stenne won 0 votes. Mrs Florence Thys has received 53 votes. Mrs Florence Thys obtained 53 votes. Mr. Eric Vansteenkiste has won one vote. Mr. Eric Vansteenkiste obtained one vote. Since no candidate has obtained an absolute majority, the Chamber should proceed to a third vote. As no candidate has obtained an absolute majority, a third ballot must be held. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the third vote, being the re-vote, the relative majority is sufficient and that the council is appointed to the Court of Auditors (French Chamber), he/she who has obtained the highest number of votes. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at this third vote, which is that of the ballotage, the relative majority is sufficient and that the Councillor will be appointed to the Court of Auditors (French Chamber), the one who has obtained the most votes. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u208	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that we will have to suspend the sitting for a moment, pending the outcome of this vote. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u209	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u210	Votes 129 Votants Blank or invalid 1 White or invalid Valid 128 Valables Mr Alain Bolly received two votes. Mr Alain Bolly won two votes. Mrs. Danielle Caron has obtained 0 votes. Mrs Danielle Caron won 0 votes. Mr Elie Doyez obtained 0 votes. Mr. Elie Doyez won 0 votes. Mrs Fabienne Görrler has received 57 votes. Ms Fabienne Görrler won 57 votes. Mr Dominique Guide obtained 0 votes. Mr. Dominique Guide obtained 0 votes. Mr Olivier Hubert received six votes. Mr Olivier Hubert won 6 votes. Mr Laurent Jans obtained 0 votes. Mr. Laurent Jans won 0 votes. Mr Christophe Leguier obtained 0 votes. Mr Christophe Legulier won 0 votes. Mr Cédric Libert obtained 0 votes. Mr Cédric Libert obtained 0 votes. Mr Louis Pol obtained 0 votes. Mr. Louis Pol won 0 votes. Mr Harry Poznantek obtained 0 votes. Harry Poznantek won 0 votes. Mrs Pascale Stenne has obtained 0 votes. Mrs Pascale Stenne won 0 votes. Mrs Florence Thys has received 61 votes. Florence Thys won 61 votes. Mr Eric Vansteenkiste obtained two votes. Mr. Eric Vansteenkiste won two votes. As Mrs Florence Thys obtained 61 votes, this is the relative majority, she was appointed as Counsel at the Court of Auditors (French Chamber). Ms Florence Thys, having obtained 61 votes, or the relative majority, is appointed an adviser to the Court of Auditors (French Chamber).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u211	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u212	Yes [[113]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 116 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the draft. (3332/2) Accordingly, the House adopted the draft. (3332/2) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Wouter Beke voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-14-54-plenair-ip254x.u213	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 22 November 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 22 November 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 22 November 2018 at 15.00 hours. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 November 2018 at 3 p.m.
