ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u1	Mr Franken, in order to identify the age of foreign persons who claim to be minors upon their arrival in the territory, a bone test is still used. This test measures the development of the skeleton in various points, including wrists, and provides an estimate of the age of the person concerned. Both the curves on which the estimate is based and the reliability of the test itself have long been denounced by various scientific publications. Mr Secretary of State, considering the considerable impact that the result of this test can have on the lives of those who have to undergo it, can you tell me on which recent scientific publications your services rely to justify the use of this test considered to be decisive in determining the age of an applicant? Moreover, the Federal Ombudsman has obtained from your services that the test of the basin, sometimes used in Belgian services abroad, although considered as less reliable still that the test carried out in the territory, is abandoned. Can you tell us if the services are considering replacing this test with other procedures to determine the age of the applicants and if so, what?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u2	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in your political orientation statement in November 2014, you cited the improvement of the situation of unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA) as one of your top priorities, because you were aware that these people represent a particularly vulnerable group that needs to be protected. In response to a question from one of my colleagues in the Committee on the Interior on 26 April, you stressed that you were specifically responsible for the reception and procedure of these MENA. It is precisely at the reception stage that a crucial question arises in that it will determine all the rest of their journey: the estimation of their age. It is this age that will determine the regulations that will be applied to them and the protection they will or will not be able to enjoy. A MENA, unlike an adult, can indeed benefit from the assistance and legal representation of a guardian, from access to mutual care, from the right to education, from an asylum application adapted to minors, etc. It goes without saying that this estimate must be precisely determined, otherwise majors might be under-estimated and find themselves in centres with minors. On the other hand, if age is overestimated, minors who deserve protection would be de facto excluded. To determine this age, however, Belgium uses a triple medical test (of the wrist, teeth and clavicle) which is strongly criticized by the scientific world. The reliability of this test was even raised by the European Parliament in 2013 as follows: "(Parliament) deplores the inadequate and invasive nature of the medical techniques used for age determination in some Member States, because they can cause trauma and because some of these methods, based on bone age or dental mineralization, remain controversial and have great margins of error." In November 2017, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe went further in its analysis by saying that it was "particularly concerned about the potentially frightening and traumatic nature of certain methods of age determination for children and that they could constitute inhuman and degrading treatment". That is why the "Mining in Exile" platform has produced a report containing many policy recommendations on this specific issue. This report presents, for example, the inspiring practices of Great Britain (a holistic assessment, which includes narrative data, physical assessments of puberty and growth, and cognitive, behavioural and emotional assessments) and Australia (an assessment by oral interview, an assessment of human development, anthropometric measurements, and an assessment of puberty). Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, could you please let me know what policy follow-up you intend to reserve to these recommendations of the "Minors in Exile" platform, aimed at the multidisciplinary approach that I have just described? Do you consider that the medical test to which your services use is sufficiently serious? To what extent have decisions on age estimates been challenged, and on what basis? Is the medical test used as a last resort, as requested by the Council of Europe's recent Resolution 2195 on unaccompanied migrant children: for a child-friendly age determination? When can psycho-affective tests, which – as stated in article 7 of the Tutelle Act of 24 December 2002 – complete the medical test, become a reality? What guarantees can you give us that the proportion of decisions that estimate the age of MENA corresponds to reality? For information, the statistics give us more or less 31% of tests establishing the minority and 69% of the majority of those concerned. Can you undertake, as requested by the Council of Europe, to prohibit the detention of unaccompanied or separated children awaiting or subject to age determination procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, Mr Maingain, I thank you for your questions and am pleased to see that you care about MENA in our country. It is important to determine the age of someone who declares himself to be an "unaccompanied minor", as this has implications for the rest of his journey, both in terms of reception and procedure. Despite your interest in this issue, you lose sight of the fact that the Foreign Office is competent only for the identification of each major foreigner. The Office is not competent to identify MENA. The identification of unaccompanied foreign minors falls within the competence of the SPF Justice Tutelle Service. The organization of bone tests for the determination of the age of minor migrants falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. I therefore invite you to address the questions to Mr Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u4	Mr Secretary of State, I will therefore ask Mr Geens. In the face of such a non-response, I can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u5	Secretary of State, I was still referring to your statement of political orientation where you were talking – and you could understand that it was in your competence – about the improvement of the situation of MENA. If you consider that you have no recommendation to give to Minister Geens, I dare believe that Minister Geens may then be able to give you further recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, I asked you about this on 20 June in order to make you aware of certain problems of delays within the administration concerning the renewal of provisional residence permits. As a reminder, as part of a limited residence permit (card A), it is intended that holders should contact the Office of Foreigners at least one month before the expiry date of their residence permit if they wish to renew it for another limited period. In many cases, however, this one-month period is not respected by your administration when it comes to providing a response to those concerned. I then told you of a series of problems involved in the delay of the Office of Foreigners for the persons concerned, particularly for children who wish to take part in a school stay outside the national territory. You then told me that you did not yet have a concrete response from the administration and that you would return to me once that answer had been received. I asked you to think about solutions. I therefore assume that this is why my question is on the agenda. Mr. Secretary of State, what is the average processing time for an application for renewal of Card A? If this average duration exceeds one month, thus creating a situation where the applicant has only an expired residence permit, what mechanisms have you put in place to speed up this procedure? If a child wishes to leave the territory on a school trip and that child has an expired A card waiting for renewal, with the aim of promoting the child's good over anything else, would it be possible for that child to have an exemption or a special A card for school trip?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u7	Fernandez Fernandez, the processing time for an application for an A card extension varies from one week to three months. At the beginning of September 2018, the maximum duration of treatment was three weeks. Between October and November, the department is required to process approximately 1,000 extension applications for students whose residence permit expires on October 31. From this period until February, the processing time is usually between three and four months. Priority is always given to applications submitted in the context of economic migration - work permits B. The average processing time for these applications is one week. Section 33 of the Royal Decree provides that a Schedule 15 may be issued abroad pending an extension decision. The validity of this certificate is 45 days. It can then be extended for 45 days, twice. Therefore, the foreigner normally still has a valid Annex 15 during the processing of the extension request. There is nothing to prevent the applicant from applying for an extension earlier. In its correspondence with the foreigner, the Agency makes it clear that it may request an extension up to three months before the expiry date. In addition, requests for extensions are always processed on the basis of the ICRÉ expiry date. The work permit C will soon expire for foreigners who have obtained a residence permit in accordance with Article 9bis of the Act. The work permit C expires as part of the transposition of the Directive on combined residence permits. This will avoid different periods of validity. For example, work permit C may be longer than the residence permit. With the entry into force of the combined residence permits, the Agency will issue a permit marked "Unlimited labour market". In this way, the situation will be clarified in the eyes of the employer. Secondly, in the event of an urgent school trip required for the holder of the residence permit, it is always possible to contact the Office in order to ensure priority treatment of his file. The production of a new A card is not timely, given its high cost. In view of the Schengen rules, a derogation is not possible. A person subject to the visa requirement must have a valid residence permit and a valid passport to travel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u8	Mr Secretary of State, as I understand it, you have told me about finding solutions. But they are not yet in place. In the case before us, which prompted my question, we are talking about a child who had to go on a school trip and whose documents relating to the request for an extension had been submitted within the required time frame. The management of the school had questioned the Foreigners' Office, which replied that nothing was possible in this case. It's October. School trips usually take place at the end of the year. I can understand all the legal obligations, all the deadlines and all the complications you're talking about. However, I consider it very damaging for children involved in a dynamic of integration in their school - as long as it still serves something - that they are penalized and cannot accompany their classmates. This is all the more so since, in general, these are school projects on which all students have worked all year round. In short, I regret the lack of a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u9	Dear colleague, it is also important to listen to the answers. I explained that in such a situation, the application would be given priority. I also stated that it was not forbidden to apply for a visa before. It is always the same thing: the administration always reacts too late... On the other hand, what about the rights and obligations of individuals and their families? They ask that very late and we have to reply immediately. They can apply for that 45 days in advance. But they're asking two days before that. With us, of course, it'll take a while. However, we give priority to these questions. Prioritization of applications is practiced. I think we're very correct. It seems you're talking about a specific case. When individual cases arise, Fernandez Fernandez, a quick solution can always be found. My administration is very flexible and we will always find a solution. However, the balance between the individual and the administration must always be found. This is also an important principle. Sometimes we see files in the papers. When I read this, I ask my administration what the truth is about this article in the newspaper and it's always a completely different story. After four years, I know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u10	Mr Franken, I am never going to condemn an administration. I've been a civil registrar for a longer time than you Secretary of State. I know how citizens, regardless of their origin or nationality, sometimes take it lightly to carry out their administrative tasks, or to do so late. I can hear it. It's a reality I know too. But I'm just telling you that sometimes the will of the administration can be variable geometry when it has to answer yes or no. I don't want to talk about a specific case here, but you will understand that a case is calling on us. From this one, we learn that it has been the same in another school, and the case becomes a more global problem. We will not debate this specific issue because we do not have the name, but in the case before us, the Office of Foreigners was questioned by the school because it was a project that was very important to all children, and that the Office of Foreigners, while the application for an extension A card had been submitted, refused the derogation and did not speed up the procedure. At some point, without trying to condemn the administration or the officers who work there, one can assume that a problem exists and that something needs to be improved. In May-June, at the end of the school year, new school trips will take place. Since we've got a problem on our finger, let's try and find solutions. That's what I was talking about. I don't always share your solutions, as you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u11	Mr Secretary of State, I submitted these two questions at different times, one on 19 June and one on 16 September. As a result, of course, there are overlaps. In the margins of the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 5 June, you made comments about pushbacks to Tunisia and about Australian asylum policy. You said at that time that you were going to argue for an Australian approach and you suggested that Europe should make a deal with Tunisia, identical to the deal with Turkey. That idea is not new, because Chancellor Angela Merkel also travelled to both Tunisia and Egypt in 2017 to discuss a migration deal. I have some questions about this. What is the status of a possible Tunisia deal? What initiatives have you taken to reach an agreement with Tunisia? Have you met the Tunisian authorities for this? What results has that produced? On 14 September, you had a follow-up meeting with the Tunisian Interior Minister in Vienna, after you signed an agreement on return in Tunis a few months ago. When you were interviewed on 12 July on the occasion of this previous visit to Tunis about the feasibility of the so-called landing platforms, you replied that you would go to Tunisia the next week and that you would see it. You did not understand why a deal with other countries in the South would not succeed if an agreement could be reached in two or three weeks with the Turkish President Erdogan. Have you now spoken to your Tunisian colleagues about possible landing platforms in Tunisia? Have you convinced them of your vision? What was their reaction? What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u12	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, we have indeed had contact in Tunisia. We have reached a very good agreement, including on return, with a letter or intent, so these are steps forward. We spoke to the Prime Minister. Minister Vandeput, Minister Jambon, myself and our ambassador were present. What has been said remains in the secrecy of the sitting. You yourself have been a minister for many years and you know that it is not very common to discuss such diplomatic contacts in Parliament. That's where it was about migration? Of course. That's been a big part of the conversations. There is currently no agreement with a North African country. You know that as well as I do. After all, I know that you are following the file very well. That has been discussed, but there is no conclusion yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you have written a book in which you write about what I expected, namely: Europe is blamed for just about everything. You write on page 185 that Tunisia itself fears becoming a victim of a migration crisis if Europe transfers every boat of illegal migrants intercepted on the high seas to the country. That is why you are right to say, for the sake of clarity, that there should be no asylum points in Tunisia. The question is, of course, how to reconcile this with your earlier statements on the role of Tunisia in migratory flows. Sudanese, for example, pass there and have a 50% recognition rate. In your concept of Tunisia deal, they will all have a right of residence in Tunisia. Is Tunisia gonna be okay with this? By promoting this, will you not encourage the Sudanese to cross the border?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u14	Mrs De Coninck, I am glad that we can have the substantive debate on my proposals. No, of course not! The moment they leave with an illegal smuggling boat, for which they have to pay huge sums of money, they will be saved and returned to Tunisia, where they can apply for asylum in an international camp. I do not expect many Sudanese people to do this, because the aim of the vast majority of them is not so much international protection as it is the achievement of Europe. After all, they can find international protection very often through an internal flight alternative in their own country. I do not believe that people will take a boat with the intention of getting back to Tunisia. Nor do I believe that these Sudanese people will continue to Tunisia. This is certainly not the case in the Australian model. No one takes a boat there, while also people from that group were recognized as genuine refugees. They only took the boat because they knew they would arrive in Australia. The destination country is a much larger motivator than seeking international protection. People could be thought to be saved and taken to Papua New Guinea, where they are also safe. There's no war or conflict there. One can say something about the situation there, but there is no war or conflict there, which means that they are no longer threatened by war there. No one is doing this, however. So the story is a little more nuanced. I certainly do not expect half of Sudan to come to such a UNHCR reception camp in Tunisia, whether or not by taking a boat. We can differ on this. I am not Madame Soleil, but that is my assessment of the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u15	And, of course, I am not Mr Francken. We see in Greece that people receive international protection but are locked up in reception initiatives and camps, where life is absolutely not good. I've been to Greece. I've been to those shelters. In Athens, refugees sit in tents in an old Olympic stadium packed together in very bad conditions. If we have international protection, what do we do? Will Europe or will the different Member States then cooperate to transfer people to Europe? Yes or no and to what extent? I know that I am now far from the subject of my question, namely the Tunisia deal. In addition, there is a question about the legal way to allow migration. Because that is, of course, the broad perspective. I suspect that in Tunisia, but also in other African countries, a certain amount of goodwill can be created if we can also offer other legal ways of migration. It's not whether-or, it's about and-and, many small ones, that are needed to define a controlled migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u16	Mrs De Coninck, I am very pleased that I am the only member of the opposition to have a discussion on this matter. I know that you are struggling with this and that you are trying to find a solution that is human from a social democratic point of view and emphasises human. It is a very good question: how do we organize this flow? Will it be possible to convince Tunisia with a story where nothing is even worked out around a legal migration channel from Tunisia to Europe? I don't think so. I think something like that will have to be worked out. However, know that we are the only country, that it is the first time ever in Belgium's history, that we started a project on circular migration with Tunisia this month. For the first time ever, circular migration, the dada of the NGOs and all that is green and left. This is in the coalition agreement and I am implementing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u17	Not just green and left.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u18	Mine too. It is a demand which they have been putting on the table for years, let me put it this way. For the first time ever, this is what we do. I believe in that very strongly. What do I think is the biggest challenge in North Africa? The greatest fear of the regimes and governments in North Africa is the repetition of the Arab Spring. How did the Arab Spring come into being? This is the result of a demographic effect, which is unlikely to affect many young people, a very young population, a large part of which has no work, but is relatively well trained in Tunisia, and indeed in Morocco. They don't have a job. Of course, these governments do not want to destabilise the regime, not repeat it in 2011. So they are looking for formulas where their young people have challenges. After all, someone who works doesn't have time to take a stink. In that sense, the whole circular migration concept is something they are looking forward to. We have now worked that out with Tunisia. Fifty Tunisian graduates are now coming to Belgium for six months to a year working for a Belgian and Tunisian company and then going back. Indeed, it will only be a story in which we will make it clear to Tunisia that we are partners and that we will also give Tunisia migration channels for their young people. If we do that, then there will be a willingness to talk about illegal boat migration, because that is, of course, a problem for them too. It's not funny when 17,000 people drown off your own coast. It is also problematic for them. Hundreds of Tunisians have already drowned. Those are their citizens. We cannot imagine hundreds of Belgians drowning. This would, of course, have serious political consequences. In that sense, that is a situation that I think we will be able to resolve in this way. However, that means that there must be a deal. Okay, I'm not pessimistic about that, but we're not there yet. I had hoped that we would have had a deal a long time ago, and I've been pleading for that for two years. However, I think that deal will come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u19	Mr Secretary of State, I just want to frame this. I think the policy on Tunisia is extremely important. For the record, you referred to it yourself, and I was a minister myself. You know that we had a long-term agreement with Tunisia. Both the trade unions and the VBO have worked together with the Belgian government to start a social dialogue in Tunisia to find a formula for this. You know that the four people involved in this in Tunisia subsequently received the Nobel Prize for this. Belgium has supported this and has financed it to a large extent. Those people have been here and I have gone to Tunisia twice myself. It is true that high-skilled unemployment, and especially youth unemployment, is an immense problem there. This has partly to do with the French influence and culture there for many years. I believe that in Tunisia we can develop a model that could eventually be extended to other African countries. I think that allowing circular migration is a good pilot project. That will, of course, have to be properly evaluated. My only concern is the extent to which we will be able to ensure that this remains circular. You say they go back after a year. I know we once brought in soldiers from Congo or some other country that we couldn't find after a month. If one goes back, in what role does that happen? Will they be commissioned in the context of companies or to take on entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, I would like some clarification on the letter of 29 April 2003 on the expulsion of families with school children and the action of the police forces, which was amended on 2 January 2016. It was then decided that the police should not come to pick up children who have been deported during school hours. In addition to school time, the duration of education includes internships, departures, and pre- and post-school care. Of course, this applies to children under 18 years of age. It is less obvious for schoolchildren who are 18 years old or who are just. I come to my questions. Is it possible to pick up young people who are 18 years old or just 18 years old and who are still in high school during school hours? Are there any figures on the number of young people who are just 18 and who are being arrested for expulsion at school? To what extent can young people in illegal residence who are just 18 complete their school year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u21	Mrs De Coninck, young people who become 18 in the course of the school year will not be hindered from completing that school year unless public order or public security are in danger. There are no figures on the number of young people who are just 18, who are in school and who have been arrested for expulsion. In order to ensure that young people who become 18 years old during the school year do not receive an effective FGM, they must submit the following documents. First, a registration certificate for the current school year. Secondly, a certificate of regular attendance at lessons. Third, a report. Fourthly, they must demonstrate in the period just before the Easter holiday that the application for the extension of the GVV was submitted before the Easter holiday, specifically to bridge the Easter holiday-end of the school year. I have already explained this here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u22	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 2647 of my own will be converted into a written question, as well as question No. Question No 265, by Mr Delannois 26769, again from myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, as we have already had the opportunity to discuss this in your legislative amendments to the 1980 Act, it is up to the CGRA to assist the applicant in the preparation of his file. For this purpose, it has relatively extensive means, with the combined reading of articles 48/6 and 57/7 of the said Law. However, it is up to me that in a number of cases the competent authorities would simply rule out documents whose authenticity is considered doubtful without providing any specific evidence to support this assessment. This would be the case, in particular, with press articles. Mr Secretary of State, what are the means used by the competent authorities to establish the authenticity of such documents in the assessment of a request for protection? What means, if any, are deployed to assist applicants in supporting the veracity of the documents produced? In the event that such documents are discarded, on what basis is their authenticity questioned? What procedures are followed to justify this deviation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, for the sake of clarity, allow me first of all to remind you that the CGRA is an independent administrative body. The manner in which applications for international protection are considered is the exclusive responsibility and jurisdiction of the Commissioner General. It shall determine independently how the examination of the application and the analysis of the probative value of the documents produced in support thereof are carried out, in accordance, of course, with the rules of international and national law, and under the control of a court, namely the Council for the Litigation of Foreigners. It turns out that the analysis of the probative value of the exhibits filed takes place in various ways depending on the nature of the exhibits. An examination of authenticity may take place, for example, for identity documents. This examination shall be carried out on the basis of a comparison with the characteristics of the authentic documents, by means of information provided by experts or by submitting the document to those experts. The probative value of the documents may also be assessed taking into account the statements of the interested parties or experts. It is clear that the applicant is entitled to expect it to produce authentic documents. The fact that it produces falsified documents can be considered as an adverse indication considered as a negative element in relation to the other elements. The applicant has the opportunity to respond to the findings or conclusions of the CGRA regarding the probative value of the documents he produces, at least through an appeal to the Foreign Litigation Board.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u27	Under item 9 we have a number of questions that have been put together. I propose that we link a topical debate to the list of questions. For example, the parties who have not submitted a question can add something. Taking into account the time available, I will ensure that speaking time per question will be limited to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u28	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I had addressed this question to Minister Jambon, but I was referred to you. I refer to statements made by Minister Jambon's spokesman on 13 August. He then responded as follows to the police union's proposal to establish an administrative centre for transit migration: "There is no point in keeping a permanent agency open if there are only a few transit migrants. There are also permanent staff to work there. At the moment, that scenario is not on the table." Mr Secretary of State, why did one suddenly decide to set up an administrative centre a month later? What circumstances had changed? Has there been a large increase in transit migrants since the ruling on 13 August? Can you back that up with numbers? On the ground, we are told that many hours have passed when the so-called transit agent arrives at the administrative centre in Steenokkerzeel, which also puts the further procedure at risk and makes release more likely because the 24-hour period has to be respected. Do you agree with this? How many transit migrants have they had to release from the administrative centre? Wouldn't it be better to set up a provincial centre? Local police are often told that one or two people have to arrange transport, for example from West Flanders to Steenokkerzeel. One has to be careful that the transit agent is not back faster than herself. Can you tell us more about the framework in the administrative center? For example, is there any staff from the Voogdij department or social assistants from the specialised centres for the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings? By whom and how is asylum information provided? What other frame is there? What facilities are available in the administrative centre? Is there a shower, soup, a doctor? According to what we read in the press, the building would be unsafe, including in terms of fire safety. Is that correct? Who takes care of the transport towards the administrative centre? If there is a release from the centre, where will the person be dropped off, how will that happen and with what transport? Suppose one is locked up in a closed center, does that happen every time in the center of Steenokkerzeel? Or can a transport be organized to another center? What are the criteria for determining the center?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u29	You have a number of other questions in this connection, and you may also be able to ask them now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, in The Newspaper of 15 September, we read that persons without legal residence in groups were released from the closed centres to make way for so-called transit migrants. Why was it not ensured that places were always available in the respective centres at the time of the entry into force of the new plan? How many people were finally released early? Please provide an overview per closed center, including the early releases resulting from internal shifts. How did the selection of these early releases happen? How many so-called former inmates were released in this way? How many of them were at the end of their punishment? How many of them were still in a procedure? How many transmigrants have so far arrived in the freed-up places? How many of them were released after one day? We read that transit migrants from the new administrative centre are also deposited at the Maximilian Park if there is no expulsion perspective. Is that the rule or are they being dropped off elsewhere? It is claimed that they are being dropped off there in order to apply for asylum, but we also heard, for example, that they are even dropped off at night, while DVZ is only open in the morning. What is the efficiency of such a measure? In what way is there guidance to have them effectively apply for asylum after being deposed? Can you tell us more about the framework in the administrative center? For example, is there anyone in charge of custody? How many minors have already entered the center? What happened to this group so far? Has it been possible to persuade individuals to apply for asylum in the administrative centre? If so, how many times? Mr President, I come to my next question. In the broadcast On 17 September we heard that the director of the closed centre of Merksplas checked files all night and that it had not yet been possible to arrive at an overview. So even the reconstruction only works halfway. Why didn't you give the instruction well in advance to start the preparatory work so that a decent selection could be made? What's the rush? Why are you referring to the Justice Department? You said in this regard that the fact that someone is convicted of theft is a matter of the prison system, not of you. However, these are persons who had been taken from prison to the closed centres. Probably already served their sentence. They would have been released by DVZ on your instruction. What about the jurisdiction? Have any agreements been made on this? You claim there was no other option but to release the people. Why could the internal shift in the closed centres to more places for transit migrants not happen in the run-up to the entry into force of yet another plan? No one forced you to release all those people in a few days' time. Why not go a little bit by little, spread over the past few weeks, and then those places could be filled in systematically? You're saying it had to be quick. What exactly has changed over the past few weeks? Suddenly there were more transit migrants? You're advocating a closed center for transit migrants. In what way would this centre differ from an ordinary closed center? After all, we assume that only persons with an expulsion perspective would be locked up. Or is it an extra provincial administrative center? We read in the press all sorts of reports about the current capacity of the closed centres. What is the current real capacity of the closed centres? I like to get an overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u31	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the announcement of the opening of a 127bis wing in Steenokkerzeel to accommodate people who illegally enter Belgium with a view to travelling to the United Kingdom. On 13 September, a delegation from the SNPS police union visited the centre to conduct a security monitoring visit, in particular in accordance with the general labour protection regulations. Their findings are disturbing: there would be no fire plan, no plan of the electricity grid, no inventory of asbestos. The union also wondered about the staff assigned to these new missions, which would not be large enough. There are no doctors on site 24 hours a day or enough security personnel. Mr Secretary of State, how many staff are assigned to this new wing as well as to the other wings of Centre 127bis? Are you considering a postponement of the opening of this wing for the time to improve its layout, following the advice of the union? You would have said that it was up to the federal police and the Foreign Office to react to these findings. What were their reactions? In general, do you consider that today the conditions are in place for this wing to be put into operation without risk to the safety of the personnel involved? I come to my question about tensions at Maximilian Park. In mid-September, a police patrol stopped a man on the sidewalk of the WTC tower. The police invited him to leave the place, which he refused. The suspect then stabbed the policeman, who was wounded in the head. Two investigations were initiated, one to assess whether the police officer used his firearm legally and one to assess the knife attack itself. In addition to these judicial investigations, there is the question of responsibility for the situation at Maximilian Park, in particular the extreme tension there – even though it may be thought that this fact may be unrelated to the situation at the park. The situation is tense in the park, not least because of different behaviour but also perhaps because of some form of harassment via certain police controls and because no other form of reception or accompaniment is offered to most of the people who are gathered there. Worse still, it seems that some mayors or police authorities consider that people arrested on car parks along motorways must be "reshipped" to Brussels, where they meet at Maximilian Park. This is not the first time that we should regret that the living conditions in this place are obviously not being met. Perhaps it would be time to follow the recommendations made by associations to create a genuine reception and referral centre for migrants in transit. On that occasion, you announced the establishment of a centre in a wing of centre 127bis. I just told you about it. Why was the WTC III not allocated to make it a reception and referral centre for migrants in transit? What solution do you recommend for migrants who cannot be excluded and therefore cannot be detained in a repatriation centre such as the 127bis centre? The responsibility for the situation of Maximilian Park is not limited to the local authorities. They do not have the skills to create the conditions for the reception of persons awaiting processing of their file. What are the benefits for migrants brought to Maximilian Park? Are they sufficiently informed about the possibilities of reception in Belgium, sometimes in accordance with international conventions and the dangers involved in travelling to Britain? According to the Citizens' Platform for Refugees, only 600 migrants are in transit in Belgium. Do you confirm this figure, which shows that the argument of the air call to refuse a reception and orientation centre would not be valid?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u32	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is not present to ask her questions Nos 26930, 26931 and 26932.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u33	Mr President, Secretary of State, I come directly to the heart of the subject I wanted to discuss with you. Obviously – without recalling the context, history being already well known – when you made the decision to bring the transmigrants to centre 127bis and, therefore, to make room by liberating a whole range of people, including criminals whose situation you could not ignore, you have shown great improvisation. You made the decision, with a lot of noise to show how you measured the transmigrants present (which can, it is true, pose a whole series of questions and problems of safety and public order at the level of ports and certain motorway areas), which obviously allowed you to communicate amply in this matter, but with very little efficiency and a lot of lightness. Indeed, with "your" decision, under "your" responsibility, it is also criminals who were released from the 127bis center. Where are these criminals today? Yes or no, have the expulsion decisions – if some of these decisions were locked – been implemented? Are the criminals who have been released still in Belgium or not? Have some of them been taken back and possibly returned to centre 127bis for expulsion, if the expulsion decision was actually taken? In addition, you have now set up an "administrative" centre. The term is very ludicrous: since it is in the 127bis center, it is rather – let's talk true: words have a meaning! – from a closed centre. And it is true that the problem of transmigrants, wherever they may be, can pose, as I said at the moment, problems of security and public order. What is, in fine, the function of this centre called "administrative"? You know that the actors in the field had proposed a referral centre with, at that time, the willingness to provide correct and complete information to the transmigrants concerned, both on asylum, family reunification, voluntary return and on the risks associated with the willingness of many of them to leave England? What supervision have you planned in this administrative centre? Is the information on their future provided in a proper manner with a view to making it more efficient when it comes to passing the stages in this field? It seems to me that you have met with your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, the British Minister of the Interior to discuss, in particular, the aspect of cooperation on transmigrants. What decisions have been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u34	Mrs Smeyers and Mrs Gabriels are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u35	Mr President, I will simply add a few questions. Mr Franken, we talked about this last week in plenary session: you set up an administrative centre. I will not go back to the context that my colleagues have dealt with widely. Nor will I go back to the scandalous nature of the relaxation of the people concerned in front of Maximilian Park, where, as I said last week, you are helping to maintain or even generate the problem that the local authorities have to deal with. On the other hand, I know that this centre poses real problems, so much so that the police organizations have filed a notice of strike calling for its closure. Mr Secretary of State, when are people taken to this centre by bus considered to be deprived of their liberty? How long can it take between arrest and the beginning of treatment by the administrative centre? Do they have access to a lawyer upon arrival at the centre? In what language are their files processed? What are the conditions of detention or transfer to the closed centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u36	Mr President, I am pleased to be able to answer a number of questions about our action plan on transmigration. It is a comprehensive answer and therefore I hope to have the time to dot the i. There's a lot to do around the file. We are working very actively on it. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, allow me to appreciate that the PS is sorry that I had to release criminals or a number of people who had disturbed public order. During the previous legislature, a senator, Mrs Saida, actively and personally on the plane prevented the removal of a serious criminal. Where's the time? Knowing migration history places this in its context. We have also noticed this in the previous topical debate, with Mrs Lanjri, who has been involved in the House for many years. It's always good to know history. In total, the Foreign Affairs Office received 7 841 administrative reports from the police after interceptions of transit illegals in 2018 from January to August. The decisions of DVZ are divided as follows: leave, 134; unaccompanied minor aliens, 1 790; order to leave the territory, 3 873; reconfirm an earlier order to leave the territory, 1 365; detention, 616; others, for example, in proceedings, 63. During the last summer vacation, the problem was already burning again due to a number of violent incidents in the parking lot, including the shooting in Jabbeke and many other events. In addition, in August 2018, we saw a peak of the number of transit migrants found by the police forces. The Foreign Affairs Office received no less than 1 410 administrative reports. The nuisance caused by those involved involves, among other things, hanging around parking facilities, making camps in parks, leaving dirt, unsanitary situations, the feeling of insecurity among commuters and creating an unsafe situation for truck drivers and for those themselves, for example, when fleeing the motorway. In this way, unfortunately, there have already been several deaths, as you know. In view of the explicit demands of the mayors and local police, there is still more to be done at federal level to address the issue. So Minister Jambon and I have drawn up a ten-point plan. It was a nine-point plan, but at the request of CD&V a point has been added, which I fully support. I will explain it further. Firstly, the capacity in the closed centres reserved as a priority for transit migrants was doubled from 80 to 160 places. Moreover, the government reached an agreement to create 300 additional places. The aim is to open an additional closed centre for illegal transit migrants. It is true that these persons will be locked up for identification purposes and, if the identification succeeds, for repatriation. Secondly, more intensive checks are being carried out on the routes of the transmigrants, on highway parkings, trains and so on. All actions against smuggling and transmigration nuisance are coordinated and coordinated centrally. Thirdly, a central centre for the administrative handling of transit migrants, a CSI centre for the screening of illegal immigrants, was established in a wing of the closed centre 127bis in Steenokkerzeel. Fourthly, the problem of the Maximilian Park as a migration hub, together with the Hub in Haren, is discussed and addressed together with Mayor Close. Fifth, maximum use is made of reading and possibly confiscating cell phones. Sixthly, the port of Zeebrugge is better protected. Seventhly, there will be increased cooperation with the United Kingdom. Eighth, the security of the highway parkings is being increased. Ninthly, there are more and more intense distress campaigns coming to potential victims of human trafficking to come to our country. The aim is to communicate to social media the strict measures taken by the Belgian Government through targeted messages to specific nationalities. Tenth, transit migrants will be better informed about the asylum procedure and the possibility of applying for asylum. We are looking at the possibility of launching a digital campaign, for example via social media. We are also considering the possibility of a possible implicit asylum application. We have a meeting in my cabinet today about that. We will continue to work on that ten-point plan. We will continue to monitor the problem, as we have been doing since the beginning of this legislature, and evaluate the situation. With regard to doubling capacity in the closed transit centres, we made sure that there were places available in the respective centres by the entry into force of the new plan, the entry into force of the CSI. The capacity has gone from about seventy places to 160. For this purpose, individuals had to be exempted. That makes sense. The number of places in the closed centres is limited to about 600. That's where the commotion arose. The average number of residents in the closed centres in 2018 was 599. As my closed capacity is always running at high occupancy, such additional capacity could not be released in the short term by purely internal transfers and repatriations. The exempt persons were ordered to leave the territory and must leave the territory themselves. The identification procedure will continue. If this results in a positive result, the persons will be detained again and can be removed quickly. As far as the figures are concerned, 202 people were exempted from the closed centres. Those exemptions were therefore not limited to the new plan. Eighty-two people were transferred to another center. I also give you the figures per center: CIM 48, CIB 59 and 34 shipments, CIV Vottem 31 and 0 shipments, Caricole 15 exemptions and 2 shipments, 127bis 49 exemptions and 46 shipments. In total, there were 202 exemptions and 82 transfers to other centres. 32 ex-convicts were released with a conviction. These are mainly Moroccan nationals who are known for drug offences and three thefts. All of these people are coming out of prison after having been satisfied on a judicial level. It is not clear to me what Mrs Monica De Coninck means by "in procedure." As I explained in the press, my closed centres are not prisons. I am focusing primarily on the removal of illegal criminals, but these are individuals who have been released by the Justice Department for whatever reason, and that is not my competence.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They won't be serving my sentence any further. It is not the case that they are serving their time in a closed centre, as you know, I hope. They're with me because they're illegal on the territory. I'm trying to identify them and effectively let them leave the territory, forced if I have to and willingly if I can. Most of the time, however, it is forced to do so. That's why they're coming to a closed center. For most criminals who are deported, this is not done from a closed centre, because they are taken directly from the prison to the tarmac of Zaventem or Charleroi. As regards the selection of persons exempted: persons for whom a removal date is already fixed, persons who already have a travel document and persons for whom the issue of a travel document is certain were not exempted. Persons whose identification procedure continues to drag and for whom the issue of a travel document is not expected within the legal time limit and persons who are close to the end of the legal time limit and who do not yet have a travel document should be exempted at the end of the period. They were therefore exempted, which also applies to those who are still in the asylum procedure. That seems to me to be a very logical criterion. If people are to be exempted, what is the criterion for exemption? The criterion applied by my administration seems to me to be particularly logical, which is to exempt the least detachable persons. From 10 September to 30 September, 409 people were locked up in the extra places provided. They are held for at least a few days. With regard to the operation and framework of the administrative centre, the police forces shall bring in the persons who are intercepted in the context of transit migration. These persons will remain there waiting for the decision of the Foreign Office. The identification of unaccompanied minors and the subsequent succession are not the responsibility of DVZ but of the FPS Justice. So they're being referred to custody. An employee of the custody service will be on the scene in the CSI at certain times. Secondly, persons with an ongoing asylum procedure are not being detained. They will be able to leave the CSI immediately. Thirdly, vulnerable persons will not be detained and will be able to leave the CSI immediately. I attended an action yesterday in my police zone. There was a woman who was eight months pregnant, I think from Eritrea or Ethiopia, judging by her appearance from East Africa anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u37	What happens then? The police caught her getting on the train. Soon she didn't have any papers. It was her intention to get into a truck towards the UK. She got off at the Vertrijk station in Boutersem. Nearby there is a parking lot. After a walk of about an hour to that parking lot she tried to get into a truck. Someone called an ambulance to take that woman to the hospital. However, such persons cannot be held. On the other hand, there are few alternatives. They may be asked to seek asylum, but they refuse. We've been through this a few times. A few hours later, the lady walked out of the hospital in a healthy way. She was a little stressed, which seems normal to me when faced with about twenty police officers. What should happen to such persons? Do they need to be talked into applying for asylum? In fact, one should be able to protect one from oneself. However, I do not know how to do such a thing. I don't know. Those high-pregnant women are a real problem. We have already had a highly pregnant woman who did not want to apply for asylum and did not want any help. Three weeks later, she was caught in West Flanders and had already given birth. She was in a cold transport with a baby a few days old. Her explanation was that her husband, the father of her child, was already in the UK. One can design many theoretical models and write a book about migration, but I do not have a direct answer to such situations. In case of suspicion that a person is a victim of trafficking in human beings or smuggling, with aggravating circumstances, the very good cooperation with the specialised centres will be maintained. It remains that these victims will be referred to these specialised centres by police and prosecutors. Both the police and the Foreign Office have a good understanding with services such as Payoke and PAG-ASA. Fourthly, all persons not covered by 1, 2 and 3 go from the CSI to detention in the 127a centre, where the control is carried out in Eurodac and where they may be transferred to the closed centre in Bruges for disposal under the Dublin Convention or for removal to the country of origin, if possible. Fifth, if it appears that removal cannot be organised by DVZ, one will be exempted from the Centre 127bis and the CIB, as DVZ can only hold a person for disposal. These persons themselves must comply with the order to leave the territory which is served on them. Persons who are not detained and persons who are exempt from detention in 127a shall be taken to the DVZ asylum office in Brussels. They will be informed at the centre that they can apply for asylum here. If you want to leave voluntarily, you can contact the Fedasil Return Office for more information and possible support. This is located right next to the asylum point. Despite all efforts and information campaigns, there is very little follow-up by transit migrants to the offer of asylum applications. Even those who come from conflict zones and are therefore eligible for asylum rarely wish to make use of this. As has been repeated on several occasions, these are people who have often been trying to evade Dublin rules for months and therefore do not want to apply for asylum. The aim of transit migrants is to reach the UK. No person currently applied for asylum in the CSI. Asylum can be applied for at any time, and also at the asylum centre. The social assistants always point out to each person his rights and duties. However determined the migrants are, we will continue to work on informing them correctly about the possibility of applying for asylum. The piste to set up a digital campaign is being watched. The CSI is a police station in the center 127bis and is managed by the police. For further questions relating to police deployment, security and consultation with police unions, please refer to the Minister of the Interior. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the closed centre 127a complies with all fire and safety standards for many years. Mr Maingain asked why the WTC 3 tower was not used as a reception centre for transit migrants. Organising a reception centre for illegal residents refusing to apply for asylum in the WTC 3 tower will only increase the suction effect. This centre, like the Maximilian Park, would then immediately serve as a hub for people who absolutely want to travel illegally to the UK and do not want to apply for asylum here. For people in illegal residence I will not provide in bed, bath and bread. My position has not changed, nor will it change. Mrs Lahaye-Batteu did not ask a question about this. During my consultation with my British colleague, agreements were made in the fight against illegal transit migration. We will work closely together on a modern security of the port in Zeebrugge. Also inland, the British police will provide operational support. A working group with experts from both countries is working on the implementation and implementation of these agreements in the very short term. This working group is meeting again tomorrow. In addition, it is crucial to pierce the false promises and lies of the smugglers of human beings. That is why we agreed to launch a joint distress campaign in the short term. Both my British colleague and Mr Jambon and I personally are committed to following this progress on a regular basis. I've had a lot of meetings. I was in Dover yesterday. The British will be here tomorrow. The British Secretary of State will be here next week. We shall see each other again in Luxembourg. So there is intense consultation and I believe that we will be able to reach an agreement in the very near future. With regard to the security of Zeebrugge, the Crisis Center is following suit. Last week several meetings took place in Zeebrugge, with all the competent services. Together with Minister Jambon I visited yesterday the port and headquarters of the UK Border Force in Folkestone and the port of Dover. During the visit we learned about the operation and the expertise of the Border Force built up over the years. A great willingness has been found among British colleagues to make their expertise available to Belgian services in their fight against human trafficking, trafficking in human beings, illegal immigration, organised crime and terror. The Border Force stands ready to do more with us in strategic communication and distress, to exchange real-time information and to allow Belgian services to participate in specialized training. The agreements on the additional security of Zeebrugge will be further implemented in the next few days. So we're almost there, that's okay. There was a lot of criticism about the action plan. The release of two hundred people was not immediately pleasant, especially since there were a number of profiles that one prefers not to release. I know, they did their time, the Justice Department punished them, it's not up to me. Anyway, I'd rather evict such people than release them with an order to leave the country. That remains an absolute priority. We break all the records in the field of deporting criminals. The last few months have also been very good. So that remains absolutely a priority. However, we had to go through that. One can't make an omelet without breaking eggs. The action plan is fully on track. It's ten points now instead of nine. I think that is a good addition, let me be clear. We have been trying for a year and a half to convince them to apply for asylum, but we are going to try again, by a different angle. That will not be obvious, but that does not mean that we must stop our efforts. We have to keep trying. We'll see what comes out. So there are ten points. Zeebrugge is on the right track with the British. The rest of the UK action plan on derailment is also in full swing. There are a lot of interventions. The CSI is running relatively well. There are still a few issues, in the area of the trade union and such, but that is also going to be resolved. I have an appointment with the unions at 7:30 tomorrow morning, not with the police unions but with the trade unions of the Interior, to look on our side about social peace and social peace. The governors have been called in. It works relatively well. Should there be provincial CSIs? For me, it's okay, but that organization is with the governors. They all received a letter from Minister Jambon, which gives them that responsibility. So that's what they're doing. It reminds me a bit of the 2015 migration crisis. Then there were no closed centers, but open centers. We also called in the governors at the time, and we switched a gear higher. This has led to good results. So give us some time. Give us some credit, too. I understand that there is a lot of criticism from the opposition. I'd like to hear your comments and suggestions. For the first time in a year and a half there are again almost daily police actions in the Maximilian Park. I like that, too. The migration hub is also normally closed anyway, because winter reception is starting again, if I understand correctly from Mr Demir. So, step by step, we are trying to tackle the issue very well. It'll be a long-term work. The results are not yet visible, but we are working very hard on them. Justice is, of course, also very important for dealing with human trafficking, but there too, there is a higher acceleration. Based on my expertise and experience, I think we're relatively well on course, but now it's a bit of a wait. I will also be going to the Council of Ministers with a proposal on Friday, or rather next day. I had already made a proposal on extra places in the closed centres, about which there was some discussion in the government: why a pontoon and not barracks, because that might be quicker? We have therefore done very hard study work over the last few days and I will probably make a final proposal to the core on Friday, together with Minister Jambon. Hopefully we will be able to reach an agreement with our fellow Members on this, so that we still have additional capacity. The problem is difficult, but it is moving in the right direction. In any case, we will continue to work hard and decisively on it. Mr Maingain, I understand very well that, in a spirit of humanity, we must be able to welcome everyone. But, first of all, it is contrary to the 2007 reception law: I must guarantee the reception of asylum seekers, but I cannot grant it to people who do not apply for asylum. Of course, the law can always be adapted. I do not know whether a majority will emerge in Parliament in this direction. Secondly, I don't think that will really solve things in the long term. But I understand: there is winter. That too is important. We are talking about human beings and it is important in winter to have solutions. Last winter, there were solutions, but it is also a challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u38	I got it. Those who are in a closed center have served their time. In this sense, they are free people again, but they are in a closed centre because they are illegal and need to be repatriated. Those who are difficult to remove, however, you have released with a change order. The least removable persons will receive a change order. Where are they supposed to go? Who's gonna take responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u39	They're getting an order to leave the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u40	You can't even remove them. How can they remove themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u41	They can book a ticket and go back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u42	Do they have money for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u43	Of course, and with Fedasil and IOM they also get a premium. They are still getting money, up to EUR 3 000. People can always leave voluntarily. An illegal Moroccan on Belgian territory is on its way to Morocco within three hours. There are four or five flights a day. The point is that, of course, they do not want to return voluntarily.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u44	How many people did that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u45	I don't know. Not that much, I suppose. That is the problem of return policy, Mrs De Coninck, for many years now. If everyone wanted to come back voluntarily, we probably wouldn't be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u46	Imagine it. They're in a closed center. You yourself say that they do not want to return, but eventually you release them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u47	Because I have places to clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u48	But what do they think, from their perspective? They think they might have a chance to be released if they last long enough. What signal did you give now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u49	I have received many letters and comments about this, days in a section, from mayors, from you and other people here in the room: I did not do enough against transit migration, it was not efficient, I had to do more, there are only seventy places... What do the police do now? He's giving an order to leave the territory right now. They used to pick up transit migrants in Kruibeke, for example. An hour of handling followed and then the migrants of the Foreign Office were given an order to leave the territory. It's the same thing. You're asking for more seats to be cleared. I'll clear more seats. You must tell me how I can clear a hundred places from 600 places, which are always occupied, without releasing people. You should tell me. Should I put them on a plane to their homeland? Yeah, let me do that. Of course, that is the best solution, but it often doesn't work. That's how it is in practice. Unfortunately, there is some difference between theory and practice. In that sense, I have to choose. So I've had to release people to clear space so that the transit migrants don't get a direct order from the local zones to leave the territory. That is the great merit. Do you hear any more mayors and local areas complaining that they should immediately give a GVV, while those people see again an hour later in a parking lot or at the bus stop in Kruibeke? No, that has been done, because they are always held for at least a while. I understand the great criticism of the local zones and mayors; I would probably tell the same thing, especially if I were the mayor of the federal opposition. They feel that their police services are working hours of useless fingerprinting and an interrogation of a few Eritreans in the police area of my municipality, there is only one team on weekends and evenings that they cannot get away anyway, while there is an accident or a break-in and they then have no time for it. The local areas rightly complain that such situations should stop, because there is no point in simply giving the arrested foreigners a expulsion order, as they are standing there an hour later, and asking for the file to be taken over. I did. We'll take it from here. They're being transported by us. We handle the CSI ourselves. They're stuck for at least a few days, not all of them. We won't send them all back. You will not, however, and neither will Filip Dewinter. No one's gonna do that. I never said that. You can check everything. I never said I could get everyone out. I've known for years that that won't work with Eritreans, for example. In this sense, the new approach represents a huge improvement. The local areas are considerably relieved. They're happy. Is the M.O. perfect? No, but she's much better than she was a few weeks ago. That's just the big difference from a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, I understand all that. My problem, however, is that the issue is not resolved fundamentally. You organize circular systems around illegal immigrants in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u51	Of course I do. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u52	You give a very interesting example of an eight-month pregnant woman in Boutersem, if I have understood correctly. [[Consultation]] (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u53	I want a fair discussion. I'm not trying to play party politics, just to be clear. It can be a sp.a. Mayor or not, I don't know. That lady was taken in an ambulance and taken to the hospital for human reasons. Congratulations! The woman was examined there. I myself have assumed local responsibility in this matter, so my first question is who pays the hospital bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u54	The OCMW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u55	Then the local government must be willing to cooperate. If it's a sp.a. mayor, it's probably gonna work. I honestly believe that it would not work in Antwerp, but that is an interim remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u56	You ask rhetorical questions, Mrs De Coninck, but please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u57	I'm just trying to be concrete. After the tests, that woman is back outside, but she's still eight months pregnant unless she's given birth. There was an identical case where, according to the woman's claim, the man was already in the UK. Anyway, my point is that there will be no miracle solution to this either. In any case, given that you are still negotiating heavily with Great Britain, I think you should also negotiate such a situation with that country. Great Britain has it easy. We may guard the borders, but it is Britain that wants and wants to get out of Europe because of migration. At the same time, it wants to preserve the customs union and all other aspects. So we have to solve the British problem, namely the attraction as an ideal country where everyone can and can work without papers. I think you should negotiate with Great Britain so that the file of persons who claim that they already have direct family in Britain can be regularized and you can transfer them to Great Britain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u59	We must then look with Britain at the way in which these dossiers are dealt with. If the person concerned has a husband, wife or children there, that must be verifiable. Some of them may be legal there. I'm sure some of you don't have that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u60	Mrs. De Coninck, may I ask you to complete your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u61	I am only trying to give positive indications from the opposition. I believe it is important to take initiatives, which will make transit migrants realise that the government or possibly any other agency is taking them seriously, is trying to gain their trust and can help them. You should know that they often come from countries where the government is the enemy, where the police are the enemy. If they are taken to Steenokkerzeel to put the whole problem on the table, put yourself in their place. One must have some nerve. Perhaps you can find another place that creates more confidence. That could be in Brussels, that could be in Flanders, that could be in West Flanders. In West Flanders, they usually know how to handle things.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u62	Thank you, Mrs. De Coninck. Would you be very brief?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u63	But he was also allowed to talk for a long time. I'm allowed to talk now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u64	In the meantime, your reply has been seven minutes. We must take account of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u65	If you say you haven't been able to convince anyone, you should also ask yourself why you can't convince anyone. You're smart enough to do that. We need to see how we can organise this relationship of trust. After all, many people are also victims. That does not apply to all of them, and they are not all of good will, I largely agree with that. Based on their testimonies, I believe that you can capture many more networks of smugglers, provided that there is something to it, and that you would work more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, we will keep a clear divergence as regards the conditions of migrants, whether they are in transit or are permanently staying illegally with us. It is not because at some point, and I am very respectful of the rule of law, that there is an obligation to take them back to the border, or even to expel them, that there should not be conditions of humanity, of accompaniment and orientation for the time of their stay or rather of their presence in Belgium. Let us not use the term "stay" which is legally inappropriate. It is rather the fact that there is no accompanying measure that provokes a call for air. Everyone knows very well - and this is the great hypocrisy - that you do not have the ability to send back in real time all those people who are not entitled to stay with us. Or you pretend to take on choices that you can't afford. Basically, yes, there is a teaching and accompaniment work to be done. This is the best way to break down organised channels in particular. That's why a referral centre has nothing to do with an air call. On the contrary, it is the way to carry out a more effective work in this accompaniment. We have a deep divergence. We will not agree on this approach, but I believe that your method does not lead to the claimed results. You also replied very briefly about the condition of the buildings and in particular the arrest of one of the police unions concerning the 127bis buildings and more particularly the new wing. You say everything would be in order in terms of security. I take note of this and will check with the representatives of this union, in particular, whether they share this analysis. I will check whether they now have all the evidence to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u67	Mr Secretary of State, you have recalled the titles of your ten-point plan. If I say "titles," it's because, to be frank, we haven't learned much today. It was enough to read the papers. You haven't given much more details. The real question is, at the operational level, how this ten-point plan will ultimately be managed. There is also the question of a framework that is sufficient to have a constructive and effective approach by the persons concerned to the information that is given, the measures that can be decided upon, the procedures and the efficiency of these procedures and, in a number of cases, the fact that this may lead more people to be oriented towards voluntary return. For the rest, you have given a very administrative response by recalling the regulations. That's very good, but I don't think it was necessary to ask you in committee to know them. You have not been able to provide any answers as to how you could have justified your decision to voluntarily choose to remove the 127bis of criminals awaiting deportation. It's not about getting out of jail. That's not what we're talking about at all. The people and especially those who had a criminal past were awaiting deportation and you voluntarily chose to take them out. This is obviously unjustifiable and you have not given any answer. You mention in particular, if I have listened correctly, the number of 32 former prisoners of Moroccan nationality with problems. I note that, when looking at the 2017 figures, Moroccan nationality is one of the first to be expelled. To justify here that this nationality would explain the difficulties for these 32 former prisoners and therefore criminal ones, it does not hold the road in my view. Finally, I want to touch on one last point, which you raised at the end of your answer. You told us that, basically, for people who do not seek asylum, reception is not provided for in the law. That's right. I didn't think it would take a law just to have a minimum of dignity towards human beings. They're not dogs! Even if these people, Secretary of State, do not have "the right to a reception" - as you say so well! - because it is not in the law and they have not applied for asylum, for me, it is absolutely not a reason to justify the lack of human condition and dignity to accommodate these people, with sufficient supervision. Indeed, the question also arises as to how, when the time comes, if there is no asylum or family reunification, we will ensure respect for the rule of law. On this point, in any case, I strongly disagree with what you have expressed here!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck. The other authors are no longer here, so I can conclude the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u69	Mr President, if I may, I should like to briefly thank all the speakers. It is a difficult problem and we have had an interesting discussion. The discussion was interesting. Even though it's still difficult, we're moving forward. I hope that we will have discussions in committee over the next few weeks to assess the plan, perhaps with Mr Jambon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u70	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss this in the arrangements for the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u71	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have six questions which I have submitted in writing, for which the deadline has expired and to which I have not received an answer. That is why I am obliged to put the questions orally. Mr President, all these questions have to do with figures to a large extent. I am prepared not to put all the questions orally, but I would also like the assurance that I will have the answer by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u72	Is that possible, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u73	Yeah, you can. It's complicated, but I'll get it to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u74	There is a question that dates from 16 February 2018, and others from 16 March, 30 May, 10 January, 28 November 2017 and 16 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u75	On 6 October 2018, you will have all the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u76	In what way are you going to deliver the answers? The six questions that have been asked here, can I turn them back into written questions, with the guarantee that you will receive the answer tomorrow? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u77	You are the chairman of the commission, you are paid to knock on the table! This has to change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u78	For a change we are absolutely to be found. You know that everything that is said here is literally recorded in the integral report. You will find my words and my guarantee in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, until some time ago Fedasil worked with Çavaria for the guidance of Igbtq+ people during their asylum procedure. During this collaboration with Çavaria, expertise and networks could be built and supervisors could be formed in the centres. Fedasil stopped this cooperation at some point and would continue to take over it in its own management. Firstly, what guidance routes does Fedasil now provide for Igbtq+ people during their asylum procedure? Secondly, how many employees have been trained for this purpose? Are people still being trained for the guidance of Igbtq+ people? How regularly are these training courses provided? Do you work with external partners for this? Thirdly, does all the Fedasil centres provide guidance programmes? Fourthly, can LOISs also call on these specific training moments? Fifthly, will Çavaria be further involved in the evaluation of these projects? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u80	Thank you, Mrs Lanjri, for that question. You know that I attach great importance to this. I have been doing this since the beginning of the legislature, and it remains an important point. First of all, it is very important to note that we consciously choose to provide shelter to every asylum seeker and not to segregate our audience on the basis of faith, ethnicity, nationality or sexual preference. There will be, in other words, no pink centers. I have said that here a few times. There have been discussions on this in certain countries, but I do not know whether they are still doing so. Take the Netherlands, for example. I need to check again, I don't know if that's what they're doing there effectively. There has been a debate on this for some time. There is no segregation of this target group in our society either. Everyone must be able to live together and this is made clear to new residents. This naturally requires daily attention and awareness by our employees, and increased awareness among our residents. The centre does this by organising information sessions for residents and informing and raising awareness of the standards and values that apply in Belgium, the way in which we organise our society, how we deal with sexuality, with male-female relations and so on. Fedasil's policy is to detect, condemn and sanction homophobic behavior in care. Where homophobic behavior or discrimination occurs, each shelter has possibilities to take action against the perpetrators. If desired or deemed necessary, a complaint can always be lodged at the reception centre. The Çavaria project was funded from the national project budget for two years. Following the Safe Havens project, Fedasil set up a structural working group on the issue of LGBT+ hosting. A 2018 action plan has been developed, in conjunction with the inter-federal action plan to combat discrimination and violence against LGBT+ people. The first actions under way concern the evaluation of the E-learning tool in Çavaria and the establishment of a cadastre of the centres with a view to making more suitable designations for the most vulnerable LGBT+ people. There are 33 workers from Dutch-speaking centres who have been trained by Çavaria as part of the Safe Havens project. The e-learning from Safe Havens is currently being evaluated. Following the evaluation, it will be considered how it can be adapted and implemented among the first-line employees. Specialised staff will be offered specialist training courses. If the Çavaria module is evaluated positively, it can also be distributed to ILA workers. Regular meetings are held between Fedasil and LGBT+ rights organizations including Çavaria. We have had a project for two years that is now over, but we still work very well with those modules and that expertise. Fedasil is doing this on his own.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, when will that evaluation be completed so that you know if you will continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u82	That module from Çavaria is running now, they're working on it. That evaluation will be completed by the end of the year. There's gonna be a new project call. I have a budget for national projects and Igbtqi is normally returned to a focus group. You'll hear more about that. Apart from the question of which organization gets money, the most important thing is actually the whole philosophy behind it. This is the aim of grants: working with modules and projects must be incorporated into the entire organisation. This stimulus through national projects should become a kind of common good, generally shared throughout the broad organisation. Everyone knows that I pay attention to Igbtqi+ and to the vulnerability of that group in some centres and communities. That's the most important thing, regardless of who gets exactly how much money from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u83	That wasn't my question either. I asked the question because it is important that we continue to work. I also asked this question because people do not know whether they will be involved. After all, Çavaria has a lot of expertise. So it is important that this is cleared up. It's a good thing there's a new project call coming in. Of course, I welcome the fact that there is also training in the centres. We must learn to deal with it. However, there must also be sufficient attention for those vulnerable groups. After all, we agreed in the coalition agreement that vulnerable groups could be included as a priority in a LOI. If one sees that there would be a problem for certain people, then I hope that action will be taken in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u84	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u85	I know that, not automatism, I agree, but there must be attention to it. Our world is like this. We have these values and standards. There is no discrimination for us. One can love whoever one wants. One may have partner relations with whomever one wants, but for new groups who have just arrived, this is not always the case. I am not saying that everyone is like that, but people who have not been raised with it may not be able to teach it immediately either. There's not going to be that kind of mentality change right away. In some places people are at risk or threatened. One must intervene in time so that these people can be transferred to a LOI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u86	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, this question concerns the length of time for the asylum procedure. In the previous legislature it was agreed and then Secretary of State De Block succeeded in bringing the transition period of the asylum procedure under six months. With the 2015 asylum crisis, which increased the number of asylum applications, this has obviously not been possible anymore and the lead time has been longer, often even longer than a year. However, it is particularly important that people quickly get a clear final decision in their asylum application. Meanwhile, the asylum crisis with a large number of applications, some fluctuations in recent months, is over. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and stateless persons himself recently indicated that the decline in the number of asylum applications would soon reduce the backlog to a normal workload for the services, which would allow a shorter average lead time again. The lead time could be reduced at least to less than six months. Mr Secretary of State, what is the current average lead time for asylum applications? What is the current workload of the services of the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless? Does that workload correspond to a normal working stock for those services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u87	Mr President, this is the last question, because I really have to leave. Ms Lanjri, over a period of about two years, the CGVS has eliminated most of the backlog caused by the sharp increase in the number of asylum applications in 2015-2016. At the end of April 2016, the CGVS had 18 300 files in which no decision had yet been taken. By the end of June 2018, the number had fallen to 4 858 files, at the end of July to 4 612 files. Since 4 200 is considered to be a normal work reserve, the delay in dealing with asylum files by the CGVS was almost completely eliminated and reduced to a historically low level. Since 2000, the working stock at the CGVS had never been so low. It seemed that the last part of the delay would be eliminated in the shortest time, possibly even by the end of September or the end of October. The new increase in the number of asylum applicants since the beginning of July has put this timing at risk. It remains realistic to expect that the last part of the CGVS deficit will be eliminated by the end of this year. However, the new increase in the number of asylum applications makes it necessary to remain vigilant. A further increase could jeopardise the proposed programme. The CGVS currently has sufficient staff to cope with the current inflow and to deal with the applications within the foreseen time limit. However, vigilance is needed, especially in the current context of the increase in the number of asylum applications. If this increase continues or increases, additional measures are likely to be needed. The CGVS does not currently have figures on the average lead time of asylum applications. This is the answer that the CGVS has prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u88	That is very strange because Mr Van den Bulck himself stated in the newspaper that the lead time would be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u89	I am recording it with Mr Van den Bulck on Monday, because I find it strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u90	It's not normal that we don't have the numbers. That's something that's always registered. We may not have the figures for the last month, but we can calculate an average of the dossiers until the end of August.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u91	You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u92	Can you give me those figures in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u93	I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic971x.u94	For the sake of clarity, I would like to inform you that questions Nos 26893, 26894, 26989, 26990, 27081 and 27082 by Mrs De Coninck will be converted into written questions, with the guarantee that they will receive the answer from the Secretary of State tomorrow through the Secretariat.
