ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u1	Mr Minister, I would like to put to you a problem raised by the citizens of my municipality, which concerns a particular type of advertising. Some firms use small signs in their communication campaigns, which they hang on to the doors of houses. From this point of view, several reflections emerge. The first concerns the environmental aspect. In fact, these signs are often plasticized and those that fly may end up on the street, sidewalks and canopies. The second concerns a possible risk when the owners of the house are absent for several days: the sign hung at the door for several days finally tells the ill-intentioned that the occupants of the house are absent. Do you share my analysis of the fact that with this type of communication there may be risks in terms of safety and especially in terms of burglary? Is there any specific legal regulation for this type of advertising? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u2	Mr Delannois, I shall be brief. The consumer law does not contain rules on permitted materials for advertising. There is also no prohibition on the modus operandi you cite. As far as the security aspect is concerned, I must refer you to the Minister of the Interior. As far as I am concerned as Minister of Consumer Affairs, there are no rules relating to the problem that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u3	Minister, thank you. That's a shame because the situation is proven. I will turn to the Minister of the Interior. I do not know if it is possible to find a solution based on communal regulations, but when a house is reported by advertising for several days, it causes people who are ill-intentioned to commit a crime. Theft is one of the main causes of insecurity in the communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u4	Madam President, Minister, the tacit renewal of fixed-term contracts between an individual and a company is regulated by section VI.91 of the Code of Economic Law. In particular, it provides that where a fixed-term contract contains such a clause, it must appear in bold and in a separate frame on the front of the first page. However, the above provisions do not seem to be fully in line with the evolution of purchasing methods. A number of contracts are now concluded via digital platforms such as the Play Store or Apple Store. The general conditions then often provide that the service is accompanied by a tacit renewal clause without this being specifically put forward at the time of purchase. The consumer then often sees it only when he finds that his credit card continues to be debited. So this brings a number of questions to my head. Minister, are there specific rules or arrangements for informing the consumer of a tacit renewal clause via such platforms? Has the Economic Inspectorate already received any complaints in this regard? If so, how many? What is the law applicable to contracts awarded through these applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, we must distinguish between the content of the contract and its form of performance, on the one hand, and the pre-contractual information on the contract, on the other. The first point is settled by the article of law you cited, article VI.91 of the Code of Economic Law. It makes no distinction between the paper contract and the digital contract. In the latter's view, the requirement for submission must therefore be implemented in a meaningful way. In other words, information on tacit renewal and its consequences must appear strikingly. As regards the pre-contractual information phase, maximum harmonisation rules apply. According to these rules of the information to be provided on the duration of the contract and on the conditions of termination when tacit renewal occurs, the information is to be given in a clear manner, but the terms are free. The Economic Inspectorate received 20 complaints in 2016 and 24 complaints in 2017 about tacit renewal in contracts concluded via digital platforms. The majority of reports concern dating sites as well as, to a lesser extent, subscriptions to online magazines and newspapers as well as online services. As contracts concluded via digital platforms for contracts with foreign companies in the European Union for e-commerce and cross-border, the basic principle is the internal market clause which implies that the company must comply with the law of the country in which it is located (the country of origin).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer and for the clarifications. An effort remains to be made in consumer protection. They should be informed of this difficulty. The provision that this element should appear in bold on the first page of paper contracts could be imposed on pages of digital platform sites. That would seem a minimum. I would like to draw your attention to this and I will not fail to return to the subject when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u7	Mr Minister, the WTO has recently pointed the finger at the EU for not removing all illegal subsidies to Airbus, paving the way for US trade sanctions that could reach billions of euros, against the backdrop of the economic war launched by the Trump administration's protectionist policy. Boeing feels supported by the WTO and points out in a press release that 18 billion euros of illegal subsidies have been paid to the European manufacturer Airbus. Previous WTO judgments to the European Union have not prompted it to rethink its aid policy offering the US the right to take retaliatory action against European products. However, the Dispute Settlement Body (DRB) is still considering another case, which this time concerns Boeing. Advantageous tax measures and research aid were offered to Boeing. These disguised subsidies were pinned in 2012 by the WTO. Minister, what is the EU's position against the WTO's accusations of illegal aid to Airbus? What retaliatory measures could reach the EU in this Airbus case? What are the risks to the Belgian economy in case of retaliatory measures? What is the European Union's reaction to the tax aid granted to Boeing? What are the prospects for appeasement in the current climate of economic war launched by the Trump administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u8	Madam President, my colleague, the European Union welcomes the report of the Appellate Body in the dispute submitted by the United States. With regard to assistance to Airbus, the report rejects the vast majority of the allegations made by the United States that the European Union has failed to comply with the WTO conclusions. The European Union will now endeavour to take prompt action to ensure full compliance with the WTO's final decision in this case. The European Commission is now awaiting the Appellate Body's decision on US compliance with the WTO conclusions on massive and persistent state aid granted to Boeing. In 2016, total turnover in the aviation industry out of 400 Belgian companies amounted to more than €2.2 billion. In the same year, total value added in the Belgian aviation industry amounted to more than €957 million. The total number of direct jobs in the Belgian aviation industry was around 7,500 full-time equivalent workers, compared with just under 6,900 full-time equivalent workers in 2012. The risks posed by this dispute to Belgian Airbus suppliers are difficult to assess. However, the above figures give an idea of the importance of this sector to the Belgian economy. There are about ten Belgian companies subcontracting Airbus. With regard to the wider implications of this decision for bilateral relations with the United States, the European Commission considers that this is, for the time being, an isolated event of a juridico-political nature, given the historical and legal complexity of the dispute. More generally, it is crucial for Belgium to maintain dialogue with the United States of America.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u9	Minister, thank you for your fairly comprehensive answer. I must say that I am also quite concerned about the development of American-European economic relations. We saw it again with President Trump's statements last week that we are totally an enemy. I think that, by the mid-term elections next November, relations will be increasingly tense, because President Trump is really doing everything he can to keep his party from losing this election. Therefore, it exerts constant pressure. We finally have the impression that his reasoning knows no bounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u10	Minister, sometime in June, the European Commission proposed an ambitious plan to drastically reduce the use of 10 single-use plastic products within the Union. It is proposed that plastic products for which there is a valid alternative should be banned. For other plastic products where the alternative is not yet available, the option is to reduce consumption. A number of examples have been enlarged in the media. For example, plastic cotton swabs and plastic cutlery would be banned. The use of plastic cups should be reduced. According to the European Commission, these objectives also offer important opportunities to European producers. As a forerunner in the world, they could gain a competitive advantage vis-à-vis producers outside the Union which only later switch to alternatives. Mr President, first of all, how do you assess the European Commission's proposals? Secondly, how will they be introduced into our country and within what time frame? Thirdly, do you share the Commission's optimism about the economic opportunities that innovation will bring in the area of packaging material for producers within the Union? Fourthly, do you have an idea of the position and optimism of producers in our country? Fifthly, do you have any figures on the number of manufacturers of packaging materials that are already working on this type of sustainable packaging in our country? How does innovation relate to other Member States within the European Union? In other words, can we also play a leading role at European level with competitive advantages?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u11	Mr Janssen, you have asked many questions, I will try to answer them all in your satisfaction. The directive deals with disposable plastic, which causes pollution in the marine environment. It is a concern that I share with you and many others. The proposed actions range from prevention, use restrictions, product requirements to labelling requirements. This new directive will create opportunities for companies offering alternatives. The use of alternative materials for single-use products can also stimulate, for example, the bio-economy. Disposable plastic products are mainly manufactured outside the European Union. The European Impact Assessment, which previously deals with the economic dimension from a defensive point of view, notes that there is no detailed information available on the importance of the products partly composed of the substances identified in the Directive. Nevertheless, European producers of these articles will suffer from the new directive, especially if they can switch to other products less flexibly. However, the initiatives on the use of plastics were expected and several companies have already anticipated this. The plastic sector's focus on reusable and sustainable products is not new either. So far no impact analysis has been carried out at Belgian level. The Belgian plastics industry itself stresses that many companies are already innovating with a view to integrating recycled products and improving product design, in order to reduce environmental pollution. However, the sector still has many questions and comments on the proposal for a European directive. My administration will remain in close contact with the sector over the next few weeks and months to discuss any questions and comments. The final financial impact of the Directive will vary from sector to sector, depending inter alia on the innovative capacities of companies, their strength in the market and so on. The consequences are not clear to the consumer either. Alternative packaging may increase the prices of some goods. On the other hand, consumers can achieve cost savings with reusable products or alternative usage habits. Finally, on timing, the European Commission expects the Directive to be adopted by Parliament and the Council by mid-2019. Then there is an implementation time of two years to transpose the directive into Belgian law. However, I assume, as you suggest, that Belgium can take a leading role in this. That is why we are together with the sector to answer all the questions and comments as quickly as possible, so that the sector can make it happen in practice to be a precursor rather than behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u12	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there are different answers to various questions. Thank you for your answer. The most important thing is the date of mid 2019. You say that there are still two years to implement this. We are looking forward to that and we will see how that story develops.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the European Commission launched an online dispute resolution platform in 2016. Through a website, consumers or entrepreneurs can submit complaints about online purchases or sales. For these complaints an out-of-court solution is then sought by a neutral third party, for example an Ombudsman. The system should provide a simpler, faster and less costly solution compared to court proceedings. The European nature also facilitates the resolution of problems with international purchases and sales. A study carried out with Dutch online sellers showed that 79 percent of providers did not provide a link to the online dispute resolution platform and therefore does not appear to use it. Was an investigation conducted in our country on the number of online vendors referring to the online dispute resolution website? Do you have an overview of the number of complaints submitted and dealt with in our country through the online dispute resolution platform in 2016 and 2017? Do you also have the figures for the other Member States? How does the number of complaints made by consumers relate to the number of complaints lodged by the seller? How many of these complaints were filed against Belgian online sellers? How many of these complaints were filed against online vendors with branch abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u14	Madam President, Mr Janssen, in 2017, the Economic Inspectorate organised a general survey on e-commerce from 329 websites. Only 82 of them contain a link to the European ODR platform. Where this was not the case, companies were informed of this legal obligation. In 2018, the Economic Inspection carried out 19 checks, which resulted in 14 warnings and 1 minutes. According to the European Commission's statistics, 72 340 requests for mediation have been submitted since the launch of the ODR platform until 3 July. Of these, 1 080 concerned a Belgian company. This puts our country in eighth place. A Belgian consumer was involved in 1 994 files. Unfortunately, I do not have the figures per year or the figures relating to the division according to the applicant's qualification. These figures are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u15	Minister, the figures are not available, but I find it hallucinating that there are so many complaints. We shall certainly continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u16	Minister, the sale of counterfeit products continues to have a damaging impact on the Belgian and European economy. Especially with regard to online sales, the challenges are great. As a result of my previous question on this subject, you indicated that the Economic Inspectorate will carry out research on websites and products on the basis of technical characteristics. If necessary, she will remove these websites from the Internet. A study carried out by the European Union Intellectual Property Office shows that our country is losing EUR 2 billion by selling counterfeit products. This would also result in 8 169 jobs being lost every year. At European level, up to 435 000 jobs would disappear every year as a result of counterfeiting. The impact of this counterfeiting industry therefore weighs particularly heavily on our economy. Minister, what concrete measures are you planning to take to further tackle counterfeiting in our country? Are there measures at European level in sight to combat counterfeiting better?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u17	Madam President, Mr Janssen, the fight against counterfeiting is and remains a priority for the Economic Inspectorate. Her specialized cell counterfeiting consists of experienced inspectors and inspectors. You know that since last year they have been covered by the statute of a judicial police officer, which makes them even more powerful in the fight against counterfeiting. As the figures on seized counterfeit goods and offline websites show annually, they successfully combat the sale of counterfeit goods on the Belgian market. In order to make this fight even better, we are currently working on the creation of an inter-ministerial committee to further coordinate and intensify the fight against counterfeiting. The European Observatory on Infringements of Intellectual Property Rights of the EUIPO, in which the FPS Economy is represented, unites both the private sector and the public sector to fight counterfeiting with all possible means and combined forces. For example, IT tools are offered to identify the trade in counterfeit goods and to exchange information with other control bodies. The EUIPO will soon launch the IP Enforcement Portal. This is a website that bundles the various tools, exclusively at the disposal of all parties involved in the fight against counterfeiting and to which the Economic Inspectorate will also have access. The battle at European level is taking place with great intensity. Our Economic Inspectorate is part of this. The fight against counterfeiting in Belgium and Europe will be further encouraged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u18	Madam President, Minister, the fight against counterfeit products must remain a priority. Products are counterfeited every day. At both Belgian and European level, we must continue to fight this fight to try to reduce the counterfeiting industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u19	Minister, a well-established chain of stores in our country has recently embarked on a process of testing non-cash stores. The principle is simple: the customer first installs an application on his phone, which will allow him to scan his races. When purchases are completed, the customer only has to pay the invoice, always using his phone. The cashier ticket, which is virtual, is then accompanied by a barcode to be scanned at the exit of the commercial surface. This test is initially conducted in four stores. Customers who wish to do so can, of course, continue to pay for their purchases in a traditional way. After six months, it will be decided whether or not to extend this project. Another channel has already announced that it will launch a similar experiment by the end of the summer. The objective is clearly announced: to increase turnover. It should also be noted that the disappearance of the paper ticket will not only save money, but also avoid a huge waste of paper, as I had already mentioned in a previous question. While such an initiative seems to be challenging, it nevertheless seems necessary to change trade in order to keep pace with changes in consumer habits, particularly with regard to the increasing use of e-commerce. Minister, how do you look at this development? Do you think this is an initiative to be welcomed and promoted or, on the contrary, to be closely controlled and to try to curb it? It was announced that the time released to the caisses would be reinvested in a better service offered in the store and that therefore jobs would not be lost. Although this will certainly be true in this test, it is difficult to believe that, in the long term, jobs will not be threatened by this new technology. How do you analyze this aspect of the problem? Finally, to your knowledge, have other channels foreseen such developments in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u20	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, trade and the economy do not stop at borders. This is why it is important for our Belgian companies to take account of new technologies and to keep up with new trends. For a long time, there have been shops where consumers can scan and pay for the purchased products themselves. Self-checkout has already been introduced at Carrefour, Decathlon, IKEA and Delhaize. The novelty concerns testing the use of applications installed on the consumer's smartphone. The stores concerned will assess the situation after the test period. Personally, I am convinced that such systems will become more and more common but I am equally sure that they will not lead to the total disappearance of cashier cases. The two systems seem complementary to me and the needs of consumers may vary. However, we must ensure that certain consumers are not completely excluded as a result of technical developments. We must also ensure that consumers continue to have the supporting documents they need, such as, for example, in the exercise of their legal guarantee rights. Electronic evidence is not a problem in itself. Automation and information inevitably affect employment, but they are rather slippages. The major challenge is to continue to involve low-skilled people in the world of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that you are sensitive to people who have little training and who find employment opportunities there. Unfortunately, these employment opportunities could disappear because of this development which is difficult to circumvent in the light of competition from neighbouring countries. I know you will follow this file with great attention. If the signs could maintain employment by developing other segments in the stores, it would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u22	Madam President, Minister, the news of the past few days has been the focus of the scams that are growing more and more on the Internet, for example concerning cryptocurrency or holiday reservations. You have indicated that the Economic Inspectorate is dealing with these files and, with respect to cryptocurrency scams, you have even launched a website, toobeaupouretrevre.be, in order to increase consumer awareness of the dangers that too attractive advertisements may present in this area. Of course, I welcome this last initiative, but in my view it reflects a broader problem with regard to the control of online ads. Indeed, many respectable sites, such as social networks or major daily newspapers, finance themselves by selling spaces to advertisers who are sometimes much less respectable. Often, these sponsored content are also targeted to reach the audience that could most easily fall into the panel. Minister, do you have any general figures about the scams committed through this? Is there a way to block this kind of content a priori? Have any specific measures been put in place to combat such phenomena? What is the responsibility of the owners of websites or other Internet platforms selling advertising spaces? What is the relevant regulation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, the Economic Inspectorate received 8,796 reports about online fraud in 2017. These alerts cover all forms of online fraud, such as phishing. A company's economic activity of making sponsored advertising available on its own website or on its own platform is a content hosting activity. Thus, the company is the provider of an information society service. It is therefore not obliged to proactively verify the legality of the advertising content available on its medium. However, the information society service provider is obliged to act promptly when he or she is made aware of information or advertising frauds disclosed by his or her medium. The regulations are to be found in Book XII of the Code of Economic Law in its articles 12.18 et seq. This book provides for the transposition into national law of the Directive on certain legal aspects of information society services. On the basis of this regulation, the Economic Inspectorate may request investigating judges to block access to certain websites in case of fraud. It cannot itself block in accordance with Regulation 2017/2394/EU regulating cooperation between supervisory authorities and which will enter into force in January 2020. These supervisory authorities must themselves have the power to impose the blocking of websites. The Economic Inspectorate conducts its own investigations and works actively with prosecutors and police agencies to address the problem. These efforts will continue. The fight against Internet fraud remains a priority. In addition, other actions to combat online fraud are also being undertaken. Thus, the modus operandi of fraudsters is reported to stakeholders such as internet hosting companies and credit card companies, which have thus become more attentive to the phenomenon. In addition, the focus is on prevention, including through the "Face to scams" pages, the "Too good to be true" awareness campaign and various grey lists, one of which focuses on fraudulent collection agencies. Registers such as DNS Belgium and EURid are increasingly taking action against online fraud, particularly with regard to domain names with extensions ".be" and ".eu".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u24	Minister, thank you for these answers. I am still impressed by the figure of 8,796 fraudulent reports regarding online advertising in 2017. That's an important figure. You have referred to all the procedures under way and the measures that are being taken. The specific measures via the website seem a little light to me. The responsibilities of site owners or other platforms selling advertising spaces should be reviewed in order to avoid these ever-increasing frauds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u25	Minister, around 80 insurance companies are under the supervision of the National Bank of Belgium. In the context of prudential supervision of those insurance undertakings, the National Bank may allow an insurance undertaking to introduce an exceptional rate increase, in addition to the medical index. Mr Minister, how many insurance companies have already been authorised by the NBB to introduce a tariff increase on top of the medical index? What is the total market share of all companies that have already been authorised to make a tariff increase on top of the medical index?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u26	In addition, the Commission notes that, in the absence of any comments from interested parties, it is not possible to assess whether the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Since then, the bank has had to restore a balance in the rates of non-professional health insurance or individual hospitalisation insurance with two insurance companies. These represent 68 % of the total contribution in Casso 2017 of non-professional health insurance. Non-professional health insurance is part of the non-life insurance business. The two insurance undertakings concerned represent 2,24 % of the total premium in Casso 2017 throughout the non-life insurance business in Belgium. Under the previous legislation, the law on the control of insurance undertakings of 29 July 1975, the companies were able to apply to the bank for an increase in the rate. Under that previous legislation, the bank approved an increase in the rate for four companies representing 85% of the premium in Casso 2017 of non-professional health insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u28	This week, Minister, it became clear that thousands of passengers could again be affected by a strike on the part of the airline Ryanair. The cabin crew would cease on 25 and 26 July. This could potentially affect more than 100 flights in our country during the high season and, according to the figures we read in the media, could jeopardise the flights of 20 000 passengers. Last year I asked you a number of questions about this. At that time, a number of problems were identified regarding Ryanair's obligation to provide information to its customers, as was the case with other carriers. You replied in October 2017 that two investigations were concluded. The Economic Inspectorate identified a number of infringements that Ryanair did not address or did not adequately address. You also claimed to have filed a strike claim and indicated that any further breach of the legislation would be subject to a periodic penalty payment. In addition, a report was prepared by the public prosecutor. At the same time, the European Commissioner asked Ryanair to comply with European Union legislation on consumer affairs. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First, what evolution do you see in Ryanair's compliance with consumer rights since the initiatives you took in October 2017? Are the periodic penalty payments necessary or were the adjustments made by Ryanair in good time? Secondly, what is the evolution at European level of this dossier? Thirdly, do you foresee similar problems with cancellation and information for passengers potentially affected by the new strike at Ryanair this summer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u29	Mr Jansen, the first investigation carried out last year by the Economic Inspectorate in response to the massive cancellations led to a pro-justitia and a claim for strike. Following an additional investigation, the inspection concluded that Ryanair had sufficiently complied with the comments made. On this basis, we have decided to waive this claim for strike. Ryanair made the requested changes between October 2017 and January 2018 following these initiatives. Thus, the corresponding claim for strike was also withdrawn. At the European level, I am not aware of any ongoing action in the field of consumer protection. As soon as I was informed of the possible cancellation of flights, I had my cabinet contact Ryanair to remind the company of the consumer rights and the history in which it had stated that it would respect them. It is very important that that happens now. That is why I have instructed the Economic Inspectorate to follow the new dossier very closely. If Ryanair does not comply with the legislation, the inspection must take immediate action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your initiative towards Ryanair. We can only hope that Ryanair will fulfil its obligations this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u31	Madam President, Minister, we have talked about Creative Commons music a few times, sometimes misrepresented as rights-free music. There is always a discussion on how to avoid payments to collecting societies for music for which the rightholder himself does not charge compensation. I am pleased to say that the FPS Economy has tried to shed some light on this, by publishing a brochure on its website entitled "Guidelines - Fee due for duty-free music?" to be made available. The FPS did so after a previous warning, in 2014, to a number of management companies that unlawfully took over the collection on behalf of rightholders who explicitly did not want compensation. The brochure seeks to clarify the conditions that the user of a musical piece must fulfil in order not to pay compensation to Sabam or a fair remuneration to Simim and PlayRight. This is particularly the case when the rightholder explicitly waives his rights to it, which can be done, inter alia, by using the Creative Commons licence without any commercial reservation. The guide also states that in case of doubt about the music service offered, the user should ask his questions to Sabam, PlayRight and Simim. But that's where things go wrong. In my written preparation I have given you the full quote of an answer from PlayRight to one of those users. Basically, PlayRight believes that there is no such thing as rights-free music for fair remuneration. Fair remuneration is a compulsory licence. So we cannot abandon what is to be provided under duress. Of course, that's PlayRight's opinion. We should not follow the views of PlayRight here, but rather the laws and regulations. PlayRight therefore contests the theorem of the FPS Economy and thus also increases the confusion among the public, in order to unduly enforce a fee with the user, hence my questions. How many questions has the FPS Economy received about this brochure and its subject since its publication? How does the FPS Economy evaluate the brochure, its initiative, its content and its comments? What is your personal evaluation of this as a regulator? In what way were representatives of rightholders and their organisations involved in the development of the brochure? If PlayRight was involved, to what extent can it renounce its content? How many reports or complaints has the control department of the management companies received on this subject in recent years? What initiative will you or the supervisory authority take to call PlayRight to order in this matter so that the law would also apply to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u32	Over the past three years, the Audit Service has received one question and two complaints concerning the issue cited in the Guidelines on compensation for duty-free music. These guidelines reflect the interpretation of the FPS Economy on this issue. The published guidelines in 2016 are the result of a dialogue between the FPS Economy and the competent management companies Simim and PlayRight. That dialogue was initiated in the context of a deficiency procedure initiated by the Supervisory Authority in 2014. In this complex matter, it is essential, as you have also mentioned, that users receive unambiguous and correct information. I will therefore, also in response to your question, instruct the supervisory authority to investigate the behaviour of PlayRight. If it is found to be in breach of the legislation, then the inspection service can take action, and that will certainly be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your voluntarism in the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u34	Mr.Minister, section 5 of the Act of 12 December 2016 amending the Code of Economic Law with respect to the jurisdiction of the Accounting Standards Commission (CNC) provided that the terms of office of the members in accordance with the CNC were automatically terminated at the time of the coming into force of the said Act, that is, on 31 December 2016. The latter, however, remained in office until their replacement was completed. I have learned that you sent a letter on 20 June to various bodies responsible for proposing candidates for the Commission's recomposition, in which you asked for candidates to be proposed to you by 4 July. I find it a little surprising that you requested the extreme urgency in 2016 to start the process only a year and a half later. In addition, Article 9 of the Organic Order on the Accounting Standards Commission provides since 2006 that the Commission must publish its annual accounts in its activity report, which was done for the first time for the 2017 financial year. In consulting these, I was questioned by the pay position. Indeed, for the year 2017, they were 887 912 euros for a staff not exceeding 7 persons. I was also surprised by the form of these accounts. Finally, I have learned that an order implementing the accounting provisions of the Code of Economic Law is being drafted and I would also like to ask you about the role of the Accounting Standards Commission in this regard. Minister, what is the status of the Commission's appointment process? Why only do it now? Are the requests for individual decisions under accounting law, as permitted by Article III.93/1 § 2 of the Code of Economic Law – the introduction of which had been used as a basis for the operation of tabula rasa by the members of the Commission – large enough to justify it? How many have occurred since the coming into force of the provision on December 30, 2016? Why have the Commission's annual accounts been drawn up only from the financial year 2017, when the obligation has been in force since 28 April 2006? Why do they not include an annex, no valuation rules, no reference to an accounting framework but only to an accounting plan? This seems poor to me in view of the demands placed on companies and non-profit organisations. Can you give me the minutes of the meeting of the Commission which drew up these accounts? As regards remuneration, what is the salary scale applied to staff paid by the Commission, including the President? What is the exact size of the workforce and its working regime, including the President? Without indexation, have there been any changes in the treatment of persons paid by the Commission since 2007? If so, which ones? With regard to the draft decree implementing the accounting provisions of Book III of the Code of Economic Law, which was submitted to the Central Economic Council, can you give me the minutes of the meeting of the Accounting Standards Commission which would have deliberated on it? If it has not done so, at least for its own opinion, what are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u35	Mr de Lamotte, what are the questions? I hope to give you some very clear answers. On 18 June 2018, the Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree of 21 October 1975 establishing the Commission des Norms Comptables was published in the Belgian Moniteur. This Order includes the rules, on the basis of which it can be determined which linguistic role belongs to candidates wishing to become members of the Accounting Standards Commission. Two days later, on 20 June 2018, I addressed myself in writing to all relevant ministers and institutions by requesting candidates for appointment to the Accounting Standards Commission. In other words, the procedure for the proposal of candidates is under way. In view of your question as to whether there are many requests for individual decisions justifying the reform of the Accounting Standards Commission, I can refer you to the figures set out in the explanatory memorandum of the Act of 12 December 2016 amending the Code of Economic Law. With regard to the competence of accounting standards, these figures show that the Accounting Standards Commission has received 100 to 200 such issues in recent years. Only from this point of view, therefore, a reform of the Accounting Standards Commission is justified. To date, no individual accounting decision has been taken, since the Accounting Standards Commission must be re-constituted. This is necessary in order to establish the college which is competent to provide individual decisions on accounting law. In the 2017 Annual Report of the Accounting Standards Commission, it is stated, with respect to the annual accounts, that the Accounting Standards Commission has now published that "since April 28, 2017, the Accounting Standards Commission has had legal personality. The Ministry in charge of the Economy, the Ministry responsible for the Commission, granted him permission to keep his accounts in accordance with the Royal Decree of 12 September 1983 determining the content and presentation of a standard minimum accounting plan". Prior to the law of 18 April 2017 on various economic provisions, the Accounting Standards Commission did not have legal personality. The way in which the accounts were to be reported was therefore unclear. Since then, the Accounting Standards Commission has had legal personality. On 28 April 2018, the Minister of Economy authorized him to keep his accounts in accordance with the accounting system provided for in the Royal Decree of 12 September 1983. Previously, the Accounting Standards Commission has always transmitted its annual accounts to its appropriate minister. Thus, the valuation rules of Book II, Titles I and II of the Royal Decree of 30 January 2001 implementing the Company Code apply in principle immediately. The accounts were presented to the Accounting Standards Commission at the May 30, 2018 meeting. Article 9 (2) of the Royal Decree of 21 October 1975 establishing the Commission des Norms Comptables provides that "the Commission shall publish annually its report of activities, which shall also include the accounts of the Commission". The Royal Decree does not provide that the accounts must be approved by the said Commission. The remuneration of its members and its president was determined at the time by the Minister of Economy, after advice from the Finance Inspectorate. According to the Royal Decree of 21 February 2010 granting them tokens of presence, "a monthly remuneration, the amount of which corresponds to half of the maximum monthly salary of the A 53 salary scale, is granted to the Chairman of the Commission des Norms Comptables". He is paid in accordance with the Employment Contracts Act. Article 5/1 of the Royal Decree of 21 October 1975 also states that "the Scientific Secretariat shall be composed by the President. The President shall chair and direct the Scientific Secretariat. The members of the Scientific Secretariat are appointed in accordance with the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts". Its members receive remuneration in accordance with the market, taking into account their high level of qualification and specialization. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that in 2017 the Scientific Secretariat had nine members, including the President, and not seven as you indicated in your question. To date, the Scientific Secretariat of the Accounting Standards Commission is composed of six persons, not including the Chair. The Accounting Standards Commission is currently looking for additional staff to carry out the new task assigned to it with regard to individual accounting law decisions, as provided for in Article 3, point 93(2) of the Code of Economic Law. There is no legal obligation to seek the opinion of the Commission des Norms Comptables concerning the Royal Decree for the Implementation of the Accounting Provisions of Title III of the Code of Economic Law. The Scientific Secretariat of the Accounting Standards Commission was requested to assist in the preparation of the Royal Decree in question. Mr de Lamotte, I hope I have provided you with all the information requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I take note of your answers. I thank you for their comprehensiveness. I will allow myself to look at these again. I note, in any case, that if, for previous years, no account was published, since legal personality was granted only in April 2017, there was nevertheless a publication of the accounts throughout the year; which indicates a hiatus at this level! For me, the Accounting Standards Commission should be a model on the issue of the publication of accounts, a model of clarity and transparency in relation to this phenomenon. I take note of the total amount of compensation. I wonder about a number of cumulations of duties. That will not prevent me from coming back to the subject in the coming weeks. Mr President, this is the comment I wanted to make as a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u37	Questions Nos 24949, 25412 and 25524 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u38	Minister, this question is based on concrete facts. Since 1 January 2018, the provisions concerning the "compliance check" of the Act of 26 December 2016 on the processing of passenger data have entered into force. This means that the identity of air passengers is now checked when crossing the boarding gate. For flights from and to Belgium, the name on their identity document must be the same as the name on the boarding pass. The data must be provided to the crisis centre 48 hours prior to the flight and a second time after the flight. This new system is part of the PNR (Passenger Name Record) measures announced in the aftermath of the Paris attacks. I do not dispute the spirit of this mechanism because it is carried by a public safety imperative. That said, it can have harmful consequences for a number of passengers. In fact, sometimes a person ordering an online ticket for himself or herself or for others is wrong in entering the passenger's identity data. This may be a typing error, inattention or simply a lack of knowledge of the exact name when the order is made for a third party. In these cases, their fate is governed by the general terms and conditions which vary widely among the companies. Some allow a change within 48 hours, others allow it within a longer or shorter period of time for a fee that may be relatively large and, in some cases, the only solution is to order another ticket. The price of this new ticket may have doubled or even tripled in the meantime. As the data can be corrected until the doors of the aircraft are closed, it is also possible, in the case of a typing error - including for a given name - that the airlines accept a last-minute correction. This, of course, involves a huge expense or even a purchase of a full-priced banknote. Minister, the facts have been reported to me by a passenger who experienced this situation very recently. I will not give the names of these airlines, but they are not always as far away as we might think. Minister, have any complaints been filed with the Consumer Mediation Service or the Economic Inspectorate in this regard? If so, how many are they? What follow-up has been given? Is the passenger who spoke to me an isolated case? I have doubts about that! Is there an obligation for companies to clearly state on their website that the names and first names used in booking a trip must be identical to those on the passenger's identity document? Should we not standardise the practices of companies operating in Belgium through guidelines for this type of error? This double standard, or even more, is particularly unacceptable. It is clear that some companies abuse this system to the detriment of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u39	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Fonck, the Consumer Mediation Service did not receive any complaints about this in 2017. He received three complaints in 2018. The Economic Inspectorate received two complaints, one in 2017 and one in 2018. An investigation is currently under way. However, there is no specific or specific obligation on the part of airlines. At the moment, there is no need to talk about a problematic situation. But I will ask the administration to check the complaints that have been filed and to propose a solution to this situation, which, I repeat, is in no way problematic until now. However, the problem you have exposed to me is not normal. That is why I will ask my administration to look into the matter in order to avoid a recurrence of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u40	Minister, thank you for your attention to this question. The data must be correct. It's obvious! It is not at all at stake to accept mistakes. But a mistake can happen, and even more so in a first name. The impact of the fees is disproportionate, as is the obligation to purchase a new ticket. The charges may be reasonable, but it is totally unacceptable to consider that the airline ticket is then lost and that a new ticket must be purchased at full fare. Should you not take a regulatory initiative on your side? You could provide guidelines for all airlines operating in Belgium. Through these guidelines, a system would be put in place to regulate the height of the costs that may be claimed by airlines in the event of a change in the first name or surname on the airline ticket. This would put an end, at the very least, to unacceptable practices of outright abolishing the airline tickets of the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u41	Mr.President, Minister, in 2017, the Federal Energy Mediation Service received 5,997 complaints, 5% more than in 2016 and 37% more than in 2015. This increase, according to the Mediation Service, is not only due to high energy bills but also to the development of a number of questionable business practices and sales. In this regard, home sales are particularly marked. The problem is known: a series of customers are deceived and are forced to change suppliers without their knowledge. The seller asks them, for example, to sign a request for information or a document attesting to his visit, when it is actually a contract. The Ombudsman points out that such illegal practices often target people less aware of their rights. The Ombudsman found, for example, that some prospecting specifically targets the poorest neighbourhoods. The Ombudsman warns that no less than 93% of door-to-door complaints result in the customer being reimbursed by the supplier. This proves that these complaints are fully justified! Minister, door-to-door energy contract practice leads to widespread abuse. It's time to put an end to it. European legislation currently protects these unfair practices, but this can no longer be a reason to remain silent. Will you plead with the European institutions to ban this practice? How do you intend to continue the abuses? We have already had many discussions on this subject. You can see that it's not just a marotte on my part in view of the number of complaints related to these abuse of home sales.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, selling through door-to-door practice is a recurring theme in the annual reports of the Federal Energy Mediation Service. As I have already stated in my previous replies, it is not possible to legally prohibit this practice of sale. Such a ban would be contrary to the maximum harmonisation contained in the European Directive on Unfair Practices. In my view, these figures are evidence of the actual usefulness of the energy consumption agreement. When consumers apply to the Ombudsman, they are reimbursed in the majority of cases. In the context of the new consumer situation, the European Commission recently launched a proposal for a directive aimed, inter alia, at amending the Consumer Rights Directive. However, it does not contain any proposal to restrict off-premises sales. For my part, I do not believe that there is sufficient support at European level to raise this issue. I am in favour of a European solution, but I fear that it will be difficult to find. Personally, I acted by concluding the consumer agreement. I repeat, a solution at European level would be welcome. But it's going to take time. Many Member States do not have my vision of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. Don't give up until you start. The sale of energy cannot be done via door-to-door. I'm sure you can join different countries. We must want to fight at European level. I hope that the SPF Economy and your collaborators will fight for this. Subsequently, perhaps the European Parliament will fight a little more to put an end to this type of completely unfair and abusive practices for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u44	Minister, I promised you that I would come back to you regarding the consultation with Febelfin on bank charges. The publication of the report of the Awards Observatory gives me the opportunity to do so. It shows that the price of a classic view account with a credit card increased sharply between the first quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018 (more than 6%). The average price of a sight account increased this year, while it had decreased the previous year. Having a credit card increases fees by more than half. Whatever Febelfin says, bank charges remain high when we see that the electronic view account remains the benchmark for more than 41% of people – an account that requires fewer services than the traditional account. In addition, the possession of a credit card almost doubles bank charges. Minister, how can we justify such a difference in fees between accounts without credit cards and those with credit cards, particularly for the withdrawal of money from the distributor, which is much higher when it is made with credit cards? Since there is often an annual fee for obtaining a credit card, how can it be justified for other services to be more expensive than this one, not to mention the TAEG, which sometimes amounts to more than 12%? Has the consultation with Febelfin taken place? Was the renegotiation of the gentelmen's agreement put on the agenda on that occasion? Has the question of the difference in fees between a credit card account and a credit card without a credit card been put on the table? Will the "tariff information document", which must be posted on-line no later than October – according to your March reply – resume these differences in order to prevent the consumer from the exorbitant charges of credit cards? With regard to this document, will we be aware of this before the royal decree of execution is published?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u45	Ms.Lalieux, an article in De Tijd on Saturday, March 17, 2018 reported that in the last twenty years, the fees banks charge their customers would have increased by 80%, while in the same period, inflation was 46%. An average Belgian household would pay EUR 51.60 each year as bank charges. The figures to which De Tijd refers come from Statbel. As a result of this information, I have announced that I will organise a consultation with the sector to discuss the evolution of bank charges. On 2 May, I had an interview with Febelfin, during which she stated, referring to the European Commission's 2009 study, that the level of bank charges in Belgium was one of the lowest in Europe and in the last ten years, that it had increased less than inflation. The most significant price increases occurred before this period. Considerable investments are also made in applications that are expected to improve the efficiency of payments. At my request, the Price Observatory has developed a new methodology to monitor the cost of a view account. This follow-up was reported for the first time in the 2017 quarterly report. This methodology is also used for the corresponding witness in the consumer price index. Based on the results published by the Price Observatory on the annual evolution of bank charges for the years 2016 and 2017, there is a slight decrease in the cost of a euro sight account for individuals. On January 1, 2018, this cost had increased by an average of 3.9% compared to January 1, 2017. The cost has increased for each user profile but more pronounced for credit card profiles. In particular, the cost of managing a view account is influenced by the presence of a credit card in the offer of the view account. This is linked, inter alia, to the following: amounts paid with a credit card are not directly debited from the holder's view account. They are only at the end of the month. In a way, the holder therefore receives a deferral of payment for a few days or weeks. Such interest is due only when the account holder does not have sufficient money in his or her account at the end of the month so that the payments made with the credit card can be debited and the account is then in negative. The current calculation of the consumer price index mainly takes account of the costs associated with a visual account. In addition, account shall be taken of the additional charges, which are linked in this context, for example, to the amount applicable where a consumer exceeds the limit of a number of manual debit operations. Over time, the underlying components of the banking segment have been modified to reflect changes in consumer behaviour. In the past, for example, the rental of a safe was included. The Proton system existed, as did the bank check. The transition from postoma to bancontact took place, etc. All these factors have had an impact on inflation in this category. It is not a specific element that is at issue. The importance of financial services in the basket should not be overstated. At 0.2%, their impact on inflation is very modest. Above all, we must encourage consumers to be more active in the market and to compare prices more closely. Several banks offer a free view account with one or two free bank cards. Consumers are not always aware of the existence of cheaper alternatives. This is why, in collaboration with wikifin.be from FSMA, a payment account comparison website will soon be presented. A fee comparison site will be developed by FSMA and available on wikifin, as provided for in article 7.4/4 of the Code of Economic Law. To do so, a royal execution order is necessary. It will establish a list of the twenty most representative maximum services linked to a payment account. Where these services are offered by a bank, the list will specify the corresponding charges for each service. This royal decree is being drafted by my administration. On the other hand, FSMA is busy developing the comparator website. Thank you for your attention. I hope I've given all the information I want. As you requested, I had a meeting with Febelfin and with the people responsible for providing the explanations within the Price Observatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u46	Minister, hello! Thank you for your detailed answer. I would also like to thank Mrs Lalieux, who has partly replaced me. In heer Janssen's ik dank ook. I was thus able to participate in the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, where an important text was discussed. Mrs Lalieux, I give you the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u47	Mr.Minister, thank you for this background briefing, which I was informed of as it was the subject of my question. I think the costs are too high, no matter what you explain to me about credit cards. I imagine that, for the time being, the royal decree is the subject of negotiations. Could you give me a list of all the operations? I hope that credit cards will be included in the rate comparisons. Otherwise, such a document would be of no use. If I become aware of this, I will therefore avoid asking you again about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u48	Mrs Lalieux, the negotiations are under way. I see no problem in communicating this list to you as soon as our discussions are over; but this is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u49	All right, Mr. Minister. I ask you to include the issue of credit cards in these negotiations. Otherwise, the Prize Observatory will have worked for nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u50	Mr. Chair, Minister, a 10% increase in complaints was noted with the Insurance Ombudsman. For all insurance, complaints affect all police and reach the alarming figure of 6,120 complaints for 2017. Grievances affect both the terms and conditions of intervention, as well as the length of notice periods or the length of time required for compensation. As far as health care insurance is concerned, the increase in complaints is even 20%. In this area, it is the most frequent refusal of intervention, in question, a misunderstanding, it seems, between the insured and the insurers concerning the interventions in medical centres, of establishments not licensed by the insurers. What about the position of insurers and INAMI when the Ombudsman called on them to review their views? In addition, health insurance is also the subject of complaints because certain diseases are not subject to the conditions of the insurers. However, isn't it up to the medical profession to objectify and see the state of health rather than the insurer? Recent diseases such as burn-out or fibromyalgia are still poorly known in science. Should we, however, exclude the sick from the benefits of the insurance they have financed themselves? Another point of dispute is the application of the Verwilghen law. It was already subject to legislative corrections in 2009 due to its difficulty in implementation, despite its laudable starting principles. Among these innovations was the setting of the purposes of health insurance and incapacity for work contracts at 65 instead of 60. However, because of a premium that was too high or because pre-existing diseases were excluded, many insurance companies opted to retain the old life expectancy. This has led to numerous complaints. Can you tell me more? Assuralia has drafted a code of conduct which, she says, will help to resolve this discussion. Can you confirm that? Would it not be better, if the rules put forward by Assuralia are respectful, to include these rules in the law rather than leave to insurers the choice of applying the code of conduct which, I would remind you, is non-binding. Mr Minister, is it not time to take stock of these various legislative developments and correct them to solve their difficulties in implementing them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, first of all, a few nuances are needed. As for the number of complaints filed, the Ombudsman notes a 9% increase in complaints, but the increase itself reflects this increase. He pointed out that if the 111 one-time complaints related to an advertising action to adapt a specific financial product were not taken into account, the overall increase was only 7%. Unlike other mediation services, there is no provision within the services of the Insurance Ombudsman that the complainant must first lodge a complaint with the insurance company or the intermediary, and that, failing that, the complaint would be inadmissible. This explains the fact that the Ombudsman receives many complaints directly for which a fair solution between the complainants and the insurance company could have been found. The Ombudsman states that of the 6,120 cases, 1,383 were referred to the front line, 540 were inadmissible and 720 were mere requests for information. Therefore, only 3,478 applications were considered. Of the 3,478 investigations, 42 files were withdrawn and 231 files were still under negotiation as of January 1, 2018. Of the 3,205 cases closed, in 49 per cent of cases, the Ombudsman justified and explained the reasons why the application was not well founded. In 51% of the cases, the applicant received a favourable solution. This represents 1,631 cases which really required the Ombudsman to intervene on all insurance contracts in Belgium, for all types of insurance. This makes it possible to relativize the figure of 6,120 files. With regard to health insurance, it was true that the Ombudsman, in his last report, had invited INAMI and insurance companies to re-evaluate their intervention in the treatment costs that were provided in medical centres that were not officially recognized as hospitals. As far as INAMI is concerned, I would obviously refer you to my colleague Mrs Maggie De Block. This body is under its jurisdiction as Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. An insurance company has, in principle, the freedom to decide itself whether it wishes to extend its coverage to unrecognised medical centres. An insurance undertaking also has the contractual freedom to cover the burn-out. If the burn-out is not explicitly excluded from the contract, it must, in principle, be covered. However, I would like to point out that an extension of the coverage will probably lead to an increase in the premium. Science is still unfamiliar with troubles such as burn-out. This makes it more difficult to objectify this disorder. Insurers work with medical consultants who assess the insured's state of health. Finally, some insurers provide for burn-out coverage although this coverage is often limited in time. I have asked the Insurance Commission for an opinion on income-guaranteed insurance with regard to the self-employed and, more particularly, on the advisability of a mandatory legal extension of current contracts until the age of 65 or older. I just got this opinion. Since 2016, there has been an Assuralia code of conduct regarding guaranteed income. The opinion of the Insurance Commission deals extensively with this code of conduct. The annual report of the Insurance Ombudsman literally states that this sector-wide initiative should end discussions on the extension of the contract and reduce complaints about it. Through this code of conduct, the insurance industry has undertaken to offer, at the request of the policyholder, an increase in the age limit without the insurance company being able to impose a new medical selection. This code of conduct is binding on all Assuralia member insurance companies. Therefore, the rules on unfair commercial practices apply to companies that do not comply with this code. Insurers affiliated with Assuralia represent 99.1%. To date, I have not received any reports of non-compliance with the Code of Conduct. I therefore see no reason to transpose this code into legal regulations. It is possible that the code may sometimes be violated, but I do not have any information to justify such a provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u52	Minister, thank you. We will return to the Insurance Complaints Commission. Consumer complaints should not be constantly relativized. I don't know if it's Assuralia or the firm making the answers. As far as the code of conduct is concerned, if you say it is binding, I do not understand that you, the Minister of Consumer Protection and not at all the protection of Assuralia and insurance companies, do not transpose it into the law. According to Assuralia, the code would be respected. There are few complaints – people may not know their rights. This law is a good law. Parliament had worked very hard with the then minister, Mr Verwilghen. I very sincerely believe that codes of conduct are not a good way to manage a situation for a parliament or a government. The best thing would be to guarantee consumers' rights in a law. But we have never agreed on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u53	Mr President, as far as the organisation of work is concerned, are we sure that Mrs Smaers will arrive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u54	Mr de Lamotte, as President, I put before me all the parliamentarians who had a question on the agenda. I would now like to have the opportunity to ask all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u55	Ask your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u56	I want to ask all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u57	Mrs Lalieux, allow me to reply to Mr de Lamotte! Mr de Lamotte, personally, I am not sure of anything. But for the moment, I'm the chronological order. Item 13 is before item 14 before item 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u58	Mr de Lamotte, if I am cool in my capacity as president, I also ask you for some respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u59	Mrs Lalieux, I invite you to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u60	Mr. President, Minister, since 2004, our motor vehicle liability insurance system, which worked perfectly with a bonus-malus system, has been abolished. The advantage of this system was its uniformity and clarity. Today, it must be noted that each insurer makes its own recipe, for the best and for the worst – but often for the worst! – insured persons. Recently, Test-Achats was able to see exorbitant premium increases after disaster: up to 85% increase compared to the premium paid the year before disaster. This means clearly that the risk pooling system has been put on the shelf by insurance companies as long as at any loss, the insured person's premium is increased unreasonably. Although the mechanism must be stipulated in the contract, the calculation of the premium and its disaster-relief increase is too often nebulous for the consumer, therefore unable to assess the increase in the event of a disaster. Surprised by this increase, it usually has to provide for a three-month notice period in order to be able to change insurers. Disputes concerning terminations cover one third of complaints lodged with the Ombudsman. The Insurance Ombudsman receives more and more complaints: 1,373 complaints in 2017 concern auto insurance. Minister, what are the figures that the Ombudsman gives you regarding these complaints? What are the Ombudsman's conclusions in this regard? How does the Ombudsman respond to these complaints on the recurring theme? Would it not be interesting to debate in our committee the opportunity to re-establish the bonus-malus system in the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u61	Ms. Lalieux, it is true that 1,373 requests for intervention were filed with the Insurance Ombudsman. However, this figure deserves to be nuanced: 192 of the 1,373 requests were mere requests for information, 427 were within the jurisdiction of others, had to be forwarded to other competent bodies and 334 were unfounded. Thus, only 420 of these 1,373 complaints were well-founded, of which 396 were already resolved and 24 were still pending as of January 31, 2018. The Ombudsman notes that these cases mainly concern problems of termination of the contract by the policyholder. The main grounds for challenge are: termination for expiry; termination following a rate increase; termination following the loss of risk. The consumer is not always aware of the formalities to be followed in order to terminate his contract. As a result, deadlines are often not met. It does not seem to me that the bonus-malus or his absence is at the origin of the majority of the complaints lodged with the Insurance Ombudsman. In addition, I will remind you that the bonus-malus system as we knew it in the past has not been retained by Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u62	Mr President, I would like to point out that I have put the questions - up to Mr de Lamotte's question No 26006 - before my questions. So I would like to ask all my questions this morning! Minister, I heard you very well. I think you know very well what is happening in Europe and that Belgium's interpretation of the bonus-malus is totally wrong. We have had enough discussion here on this subject. You did not want to move forward on the issue of auto insurance when you announced a reform of this insurance at the beginning of the legislature. You didn't. Today, the increase is 85% in the first accident! This is indeed unacceptable to consumers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u63	Minister, although there has been a decrease in complaints about the so-called "fire" insurance, the latter continues to raise questions. Many complaints relate to the way in which the expertise is carried out. Whether he is under pressure to sign or suffering from a lack of knowledge of the scope of the expert document to be signed, the insured person is often lost. In view of this, the Ombudsman advises two legislative additions: firstly, a period for reflection after the expert's examination and, secondly, transparency in the expert's report, which is the property of the insurer, but which should be available to victims. In both cases, I would add a duty to inform the insured about the scope of the report. Minister, what is your assessment of the Ombudsman's proposals? Do you think you can work on it soon? The Ombudsman has a significant role to play, which can help us to correct and supplement existing laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u64	Mrs Lalieux, according to my information, in the majority of cases these are limited claims. The VP is drawn up by the expert commissioned by the insurance company at the end of his visit to the scene of the disaster. The insured person is also present and, if necessary, the contractor who provided him with a repair estimate. At the end of the expert mission, the insured person may immediately sign the VP for agreement, but this does not constitute an obligation. Indeed, it can give itself a period of reflection. It is then sufficient to return the signed document. In the event of a challenge by the insured to the amount of the compensation, he may appoint his own expert. The latter will fix one, in consultation with the insurer's expert. In the absence of agreement, a third may be appointed. In addition, the Insurance Act still provides for fixed periods within which the insured person must be compensated, in order to guarantee the timeliness of payment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u65	Minister, if I understand you correctly, you do not want to follow the Ombudsman's recommendations. However, these would contribute to better information and consumer protection. I imagine that, too, insurance companies are opposed to this, even though these improvements would be minimal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u66	Mr President, Minister, I have been concerned for years with the decline in the number of ATMs in urban and rural areas. Some time ago, we observed, for example, the closing of the KBC agency near the Grand Place, and thus the disappearance of seven ATMs. In three years, nearly 500 distributors have been abolished. If these deletions are justified according to the banks by less demand from the distributors by the customers, it must nevertheless be noted that banks whose main activities are outside Belgium no longer have the concern to be close to the inhabitants. In Belgium as a whole, the number of distributors is 8,235 according to the figures I have been able to obtain. This means that in three years, the abolition has affected more than 5% of the fleet of these services. I will go to the essentials, minister. In the United Kingdom, post offices have become universal ticket counters. In Belgium, we are exactly in the opposite pattern, since Post Points are now insured by private stores following the disappearance of half of the post offices between 2006 and 2016. Minister, do you have any recent figures on this issue? Wouldn't it be time to update the statistics available online? I quote from a previous question: "Banks do have the task of providing a minimum service for the accessibility of ATMs. They must also ensure a proper geographical distribution and availability of vending machines, especially in rural areas." Do banks meet these obligations? It seems, in view of the latest figures, that they are no longer aware of this part of their task. My question remains the same: what about the gentlemen's 2004 agreement? Have you seen him again, which I invited you to do already in 2016? Street-fronted ticket distributors cannot only be replaced by the possibility of withdrawing money in certain large commercial areas. Banks cannot take a position similar to each other. Would it not be appropriate to include a minimum number of stricto sensu distributors per territorial perimeter in the gentlemen's agreement? What do we know about the shortage of money in the tourist area during weekends? I guarantee you today that many traders around the Grand Place are very upset by the total disappearance of ticket machines, while tens of thousands of tourists visit this Grand Place. What opportunities are available to residents to complain about the difficulty of access to ticket distributors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, according to Febelfin's figures, there were 8,235 vending machines in Belgium at the end of 2017. This is a 4% decrease compared to the situation at the end of 2016. However, compared to the European level, Belgium is in the European average for the number of ATMs per million inhabitants. There is no doubt that the provision of digital services by banks has increased significantly. New forms of mobile banking application for smarphones are becoming increasingly successful and electronic payments are being stimulated by the banking sector. The important function of the banking sector is to organize financial transactions in such a way that they are efficient, secure, at a reasonable price and accessible to everyone, also for those who are less skilled in electronic banking. I will continue to monitor the number of vending machines. Rest assured: I will stress in due course the social responsibility of the banking sector when this proves necessary. At the moment, however, my administration is not aware of any real complaints or major problems regarding the lack of distributors in Belgium, particularly in rural areas. On the basis of the above figures, a sufficient number of ticket distributors would, in principle, be available. I therefore do not immediately see an objective reason to impose a minimum number of distributors per municipality. I would add that bpost has undertaken, in its management contract, to guarantee the presence of ticket distributors in all municipalities where this service is not offered by another financial institution. The gentlemen's agreement of 2004 has not been reviewed. I consider that, in view of the above figures, it does not yet appear necessary to review it. I would point out that banks must have a clear communication on the cases of the closure of distributors, on the alternatives proposed and on their strategy of setting up distributors, taking into account their minimum banking service obligations to the public. My administration is not aware of any structural problem regarding the withdrawal of money during weekends in markets or festivals in tourist areas. If a consumer considers that one of his rights is not respected, he may file a complaint with the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate of the FPS Economy. With regard to the fees paid by the consumer, I would point out that consumers will soon have free access to a tariff information document available in all banks as well as on the Internet. This will allow the comparison of the most representative banking services offered by banks. This comparator website is currently being developed. This will enable the consumer to know the costs in advance and to play a role in existing competition between banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answer. I feel like I've been hearing the same thing for years. Banks are protected, insurers are protected, but the consumer is not. In one day, seven ticket machines were closed around and around the Grand Place. There's only one left in the entire perimeter of the Pentagon! The only post office was closed. So there's only one post office left. Do you understand that the service is no longer guaranteed? You're the Minister of Economy. Merchants complain. Small traders must have a Bancontact which they rent at a high price to the banks. Minister, a reaction from the College of the City of Brussels will be addressed to you. I believe that a resolution has been adopted in the Brussels Parliament. Here, I am not even talking about rural areas in which the elderly no longer know where to go for cash. This is again a cost reduction for banks. And consumers can always run to have a real service in our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u69	Mr President, Minister, on the occasion of the presentation of his study on Belgium's ten priorities in the defence of consumer rights, Test-Achats has just made a remarkable statement on the government's balance sheet. I quote the spokesman: "It is a government that listens more to businesses than to consumer representatives. We feel that Mr Peeters, given his broad portfolio, has other priorities than consumer protection." And to take examples especially on the planned obsolescence or on mortgage credit. Minister, should I add that I agree with that? The consumer is the great forgotten of this government. In three years of power, your only activity has been to transpose European directives and, generally, minimally. The consumer is the last priority of the Michel government. Minister, my questions are as follows. Test-Achats produced a study on Belgium's ten consumer rights priorities. Have you read this study? What are the priorities of the Belgians for a year of federal elections? A meeting with the Test-Achats association was scheduled for May 31? Did she stand? What did you talk about? Did you defend your balance sheet and share its analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, I, like you, have read the conclusions of the Test-Achats study on the ten priorities of Belgian consumers' rights. I would have been very surprised if you didn't share Test-Achats' vision. However, I recognize your right to share it. As far as European directives are concerned, I do not believe that I am simply limiting myself to their minimum transcription. Take the example of the law transposing the directive on package travel, this law specifies that any essential modification to an agreed package travel must be explicitly accepted by the consumer. Be convinced that travel agencies would have preferred this not to be the case. We have also extended the mandatory guarantee against the financial insolvency of tour operators and package travel retailers to the sale of travel services, in order to preserve the guarantees enjoyed by consumers. This is not provided for in the directive. Have we ever forgotten that at the beginning of this legislature, we set out the rules necessary for the Consumer Mediation Service to become operational? In addition, the charging monitoring office was able to start its work. As to whether the operators of tanning centres enthusiastically welcomed the stricter rules that I have imposed in order to better guarantee the safety and health of the consumer, believe me, this is not the case! In addition, this list is not extensible. With regard to the list of priorities of Test-Achats, I must point out that only three of them fall within my competence: the fight against the planned obsolescence, the revision of the law on mortgage credit and certain aspects of the provisions relating to the recovery by the judicial officers. As for the fight against planned obsolescence, I repeat once again that the legal basis for sanctioning these practices with fines already existed in the Code of Economic Law and that we have inserted additional administrative sanctions by the law of 29 June 2016. The manufacturer may therefore be obliged to have the product analysed at his own expense and the products may also be withdrawn from the market. In addition, I would like to point out that I have already put the file of the review of the consumer goods guarantee on the government table. Unfortunately, I must note that there is no consensus on this issue. Some government partners want first to wait for developments at European level before taking action on this issue at national level. With regard to the revision of the Law on Mortgage Credit, I would like to point out that the provisions concerning the European Standardised Information Sheet (ESIS) and the overall effective annual rate relate to harmonised European matters. Maximum harmonisation implies that national legislators cannot go any further than is required at European level. Test-Achats and the banking sector disagree with the interpretation of the provisions regarding the timing of the submission of the ESIS document to the candidate contractor. In any case, I believe that it should be avoided as much as possible to transmit this ESIS document late in the credit application and that it is better to attach this form as soon as there are sufficient elements to do so. At my request, the Economic Inspectorate organized a control campaign during which 151 controls were carried out on brokers and related agents. As regards compliance with the rules on mortgage credit, the Inspectorate found that there were no structural problems and that the investigation did not reveal serious infringements. All but one of the controlled persons complied within the time limits set by the Inspectorate. Some time ago, the Council of Ministers approved the preliminary draft to adapt the Car-Pass legislation so that the buyer could have even more information. This preliminary draft is therefore totally in line with a desire to protect the consumer. I have prepared a dossier to adapt the rules on amicable recovery of consumer debts. Indeed, the problem of increasing debts in the event of late payment of invoices is our concern. That is why I would like to lay down precise rules on the payment period granted to the consumer, on the procedure to be followed in the event of late payment and on the amount of the additional charges which are taken into account. The bill, which is part of a broader approach to debt issues, is on the agenda of the next Council of Ministers. An informal consultation took place on 21 May between representatives of Test-Achats and my firm. Such consultations are held on a regular basis with the aim of holding a confidential exchange of views on a number of topics relating to consumer protection. Various topics, such as the regulation of solar benches and collective redress action against Facebook, have been the subject of brief discussions. As far as your question about the government's consumer protection policy is concerned, you should be aware that the balance sheet that is being made speaks for him. I am proud of the work that my collaborators and I have done since the beginning of this legislature. And we will continue to work to protect the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u71	I do not ask for a full review and a context. If one asks the question, it is a priori that one knows this context and that one has read the reports mentioned. The minister likes to respond in this way, but schedules are not respected. Minister, we will not agree on the balance sheet. Neither is the consumer association. It is totally objective on this issue. Always relativizing complaints or saying that everything is fine and that legislation is wonderful is not a way of managing or imposing itself as a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u72	Question No 26115 by Mrs Lalieux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u73	Minister, two years ago, you were reforming the right of reprography in such a way that large foreign companies manufacturing photocopiers were exempt from such a contribution. This reform entered into force on 1 January 2017. Already at the time, I had told you of my disapproval, this choice being critical in several respects. First of all, these large companies benefit from the literary creation that their machines copy, so it is normal for them to contribute to it. Then, as I feared, your reform could not guarantee an equivalent level of income for the arts sector. Today, some players in the sector estimate that their reprographic rights have decreased by 75% in one year. It's never before seen! Minister, what has been the evolution of Reprobel's fees between 2016 and 2017? Do you intend to take steps to compensate for the loss of profits and support literary creation and the world of publishing? Has your services seen a decrease in the selling price of photocopiers and printers? Minister, you said there would be no loss of profits for the artistic world, is that the reality today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u74	Ms Lalieux, it appears from Reprobel's annual accounts that in 2016, a total of €16.8 million was collected, of which $14.7 million came from reprography. In 2017, a total of EUR 8.7 million was collected and the share of the reprography and remuneration of publishers is EUR 4.4 million. For teaching and research, just over €2 million has been collected. However, it is still too early to conclude that there is a loss of profits. A considerable amount of duties invoiced but not yet collected has not yet been included in the amount I have just mentioned. Following the abolition of the lump sum remuneration by the Act of 22 December 2016, proportional remuneration was substantially increased in the Royal Decrees of 4 March 2017 in order to compensate for the damage suffered by authors and publishers. The SPF Economy has also commissioned an independent study on the harm to rightholders due to the reprographic exception. This study is in the process of being completed. On this basis and on the basis of available information, I will assess the rates in force. If necessary, I will propose more suitable ones. Statbel's data, which are used to calculate the consumer price index, show that the price of multifunctional appliances in 2017 decreased by 4.7% compared to 2016. However, in 2016 and 2015, tariffs decreased by only 2.5% and 2.6% respectively. It can therefore be seen that last year, for multifunctional devices of the same quality, the fall in prices was more marked than in the previous two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answer. The loss of profits therefore amounts to EUR 10 million, whereas you assured us that no difference would result from this measure. You have indeed made the multinationals profit. This is obviously not beneficial to authors, to the artistic world or to publishers. You made a fundamental mistake, Minister. You are incomprehensiblely subjected to a lobby. The damage is obvious. But you had sworn six times your great gods in commission that there would be none. You are going to increase the tariffs, which will not affect the multinationals in question, but indeed the consumers. Once again, you are misguided in your copyright policy. It's time to correct the shot. You are constantly developing restorative laws. For example, we have just voted on the 500 Euro project that another is in preparation. So, Minister, get to a restorative law and make multinationals pay! I do not understand the logic behind this law. In any case, it is a slap for authors, the artistic world and publishers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u76	Minister, in May 2018, the long-awaited survey on the impact of territorial supply restrictions on the retail trade in the Benelux was presented in the context of Benelux cooperation. Territorial supply restrictions are imposed by a supplier on its customers, so traders in some regions or countries cannot purchase certain products and therefore cannot offer them to the consumer. The potential negative effects of these restrictions are increased prices for consumers and a deterioration in the competitive position of traders in the regions concerned. Moreover, the Benelux countries have for some time been concerned about the competitive position of traders in the Benelux countries compared to traders in neighbouring France and Germany. The results of the survey show that 89 percent of the Benelux traders surveyed are affected by the restrictions. In our country, 75% indicate that they lead to higher prices for consumers. A few months ago, you indicated your desire to work towards a solution to the problem of higher supermarket prices in our country than in our neighbouring countries. Similar milk products, for example, costs in Germany, the Netherlands and France 11,82 %, 11,42 % and 8,34 % less respectively than in Belgium. To this end, you would address, among other things, territorial supply restrictions. The Benelux Committee of Ministers seems to be steering a dialogue in the European Union to address the issue. What initiatives have already been taken in the context of Benelux cooperation to address territorial supply constraints? What good examples of this will be taken into account in the consultations in the European Commission? Should you already receive signals from other European countries, such as Germany and France, on the subject? What initiative do you see to tackle the price handicap of supermarkets in Belgium compared to stores in the Netherlands, without distorting cooperation at Benelux level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u77	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues Janssen and de Lamotte for waiting for me to come to the committee. I appreciate that very much. Mr Minister, my question is a follow-up to a previous debate in plenary on the high prices for consumers in our Belgian supermarkets, with some points of concern. You replied at that time that removing territorial supply restrictions is a possible action at the high prices. Now, according to a survey proposed in May, in which 66 Benelux retailers participated, 89 percent of companies are affected by such territorial supply restrictions. Such restrictions imposed by a supplier prevent the trader from choosing in which countries he or she intends to buy the goods. For example, minimum purchase volumes may be imposed or a labelling to limit sales to a particular country. In response to previous questions in the Chamber, you underlined that territorial delivery restrictions have a major impact. This was confirmed in the survey as, according to 77% of the companies surveyed, the restrictions lead to higher prices for consumers. Also in the debate on the report of this year's Prize Observatory, it appeared that, among other things, territorial supply restrictions lead to less favourable purchasing conditions and thus higher prices for consumers. Due to territorial supply restrictions, there are also smaller profit margins for traders and a more limited supply in supermarkets and shops. In short, territorial supply restrictions are negative both for consumers, who pay too high a price, and for traders whose competitive position is affected. These supply restrictions are detrimental not only to our traders but also to traders in other Member States. It is therefore a cross-border problem which is best addressed at European level. Firstly, the report by the Benelux countries sends a clear signal to Europe to tackle the problem now. Have you already raised the problem with the European Commission, Minister? If so, what was the result? Secondly, what concrete steps will be taken now to tackle the problem across borders, at least with the Benelux countries at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I am completing my colleagues' questions. According to a survey recently published by the Benelux General Secretariat, 77% of the companies surveyed indicated that the territorial supply restrictions imposed by suppliers resulted in higher consumer prices; 71% replied that the restrictions resulted in a decrease in margins for their company and 67% replied that they resulted in a restriction on the range offered. According to the same study, it is certain specific rules of the Benelux countries, such as the one concerning labelling or promotional communications, which facilitate the division of the market for large companies and, consequently, price adjustment. If they are not justified for reasons of objective efficiency, these restrictions on cross-border supply do not comply with EU law. This is why firms rely on many factors justifying these, such as the optimisation of distribution logistics, labour costs, transport etc., higher in Benelux markets or a different demand in these countries. Minister, I am waiting for you to take up this problem with you in the context of your competence to protect consumers. Have you drawn up an inventory of specific Belgian laws and/or regulations that could justify such restrictions? Apart from the above-mentioned investigation, are more specific actions carried out by the Belgian authorities? To what extent are the justifications for these restrictions being examined? Do you have any figures on how to deal with complaints in this regard? Finally, the Benelux survey concerns retail trade. Does similar work exist for services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, OECD statistics indicate that the retail sector in Belgium is more regulated than in neighbouring countries. On our initiative, the Belgian Competition Authority is examining what regulations hinder the functioning of the market in Belgium and what could be used to justify such practices. As President of Benelux, on 14 March I sent the results of the Benelux inquiry to Mrs Bienkowska, European Commissioner for the Internal Market and Industry, and to Mrs Vestager, European Commissioner for Competition. In its Communication of 19 April 2018, the Commission announced that it would further investigate the impact of territorial restrictions on the Single Market. It adds that "further measures may be necessary if the situation does not change as a result of the voluntary change in the approach of suppliers'. At Benelux level, the working group on territorial supply restrictions, in which our services are actively represented, will explore the existing possibilities to combat this phenomenon. The Working Group will examine, inter alia, the means to be used to strengthen parallel imports and the possibilities offered by competition law and by the Services Directive to combat such restrictions. The Economic Inspectorate has not received any complaints in this regard. Territorial restrictions on supply have a specific impact on retail trade. In the Visser judgment of 30 January 2018, the Court of Justice confirmed that the retail trade is a service as referred to in the Services Directive. The responses of retailers to the public consultation on retail regulation in a multi-selling situation show that Austria is also affected by this phenomenon. You know that Austria now has the Presidency of the EU. Let us hope that this problem accelerates and that we can tackle territorial restrictions at European level. In any case, the Commissioners concerned have been fully informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u80	Minister, I hear in your reply that everyone is aware, but that little has been done about it at the moment. There will be work on it in the future. We will therefore have to continue to follow that up, and I think I will be asking another oral question in six months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Can you further clarify whether a deadline has been set? What time does the Belgian Competition Authority have at its disposal for the first question and the first investigation you have given up?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u82	Mrs. Smaers, my associate tells me that additional information was requested. Once that information is provided, the whole can be finalized. I hope this will not take so long, but I fear it will be difficult to get that done before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u83	Mr Minister, before the summer recess, I did not expect that anymore, but at the latest before the end of the year. I hope, therefore, that, in addition to the internal investigation by the Belgian Competition Authority, it will be possible to move things at European level. European decision-making in this dossier must not prevent us from doing something internally. I therefore urge that we continue to open up the market, as far as possible internally in Belgium, but we must take this to heart in order to ensure that prices are set as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think we are not sufficiently aware that, behind all this, there is a cost to the consumer, especially those who live near the borders and who can pass through them to go and trade there. Mr Minister, I think the point is that it is good, but the reaction and action on the subject are, in my opinion, essential if we are to be able to secure a cheap market for all European consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u85	Technically, a new meeting was added at 12.30 p.m. We start this one a little late. We have three questions to deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u86	Mr President, Minister, on Friday 6 July the Council of Ministers approved a list of projects to be funded from the Energy Transition Fund. Out of the 25 proposals submitted, 17 projects met the selection or participation criteria. They each receive a certain proportion of the EUR 28 million earmarked for this purpose. The Energy Transition Fund aims to encourage and support energy research and development. This fund is fed by the annual fee to be paid by ENGIE Electrabel to compensate for the extension of the life of the nuclear power plants Objective 1 and Objective 2. Now it appears that eight nuclear-related projects will receive subsidies from the Energy Transition Fund. These projects together receive EUR 9.74 million. You have always denied, in your capacity as Minister, that the funds in the Energy Transition Fund, from the nuclear sector, would also be used to finance nuclear projects, although in your reply to my question in the plenary session of 5 October 2017, you showed that there is still an opening up of subsidies to this sector. This now appears to be the case effectively. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you give an overview of the 17 selected projects? How much money do they get from the Energy Transition Fund? Is there co-financing? Secondly, can you explain the unselected projects? What exactly did these involve? Thirdly, with the choice of the eight nuclear-related projects, you clearly indicate that nuclear projects are also likely to receive subsidies from the Energy Transition Fund. Can you tell me what the precise reasons are for this? Finally, can you explain why, in view of the nuclear exit, the Energy Pact and the necessary energy transition, no more weight was given to alternative energy projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u87	Mr President, Madam Minister, you recall the very lengthy debates we have had in the House concerning the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 e of the creation of the Energy Transition Fund. You have told us and then confirmed, as my colleague has just pointed out, that this fund would never, ever, be used to subsidize the nuclear sector. We note today that you did not keep your word and that Parliament did not receive the correct information when it voted on the bill extending the two nuclear reactors. According to Le Soir newspaper, 17 projects were selected, including eight related to nuclear power. It is far from your desire to finance exclusively innovative projects in new technologies such as storage. Minister, why didn't you give the right information during the Parliamentary review of the Energy Transition Fund? Why didn't you veto nuclear projects? What are the details of these projects - amounts, objectives, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Is ENGIE-Electrabel involved in one or more of these projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u88	Madam Minister, my point could be summed up in one question: what remains of the credibility of your speech? In committee, as in plenary, you assured us that nuclear projects would be excluded from access to the funds of the Transition Fund. We note that eight nuclear projects have been selected for a total amount of €9.7 million. That is why I would like to ask this question about the value of the minister's speech. Let me quote what you said, which is on page 17 of the report of document 54/1046/003: "Next, the Minister points out that the 1° of the proposed amendment provides that the resources to be allocated to the Energy Transition Fund in projects may be used for measures to encourage and support research and development in innovative projects in the field of energy and within the competence of the Federal State. The Minister denies that these means will be used to encourage and support nuclear energy. These are new methods of energy production, such as tidal energy production or energy storage projects." Could you explain to us how waste treatment projects are "new methods of energy production"? I take word for word the verbatim of your presentation of the time. Furthermore, can you tell us what statements you made in committee or in plenary during the discussions on the creation of this fund informed us that this fund, whose resources must be allocated to the energy transition - in the future, therefore - could also be used for waste treatment applications? I didn't find any trace of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u89	Mr. President. I have a detailed answer, drawn up in part by the administration and partly by myself, since I have resumed all the parliamentary work we have had on this fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u90	Long time!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u91	That we have lived for a long time, indeed. We've lived longer than others - it's still a chance! - about the Energy Transition Fund. Mrs Temmerman, in answer to your questions 1 and 2, I can tell you the following. The decision of the Council of Ministers on Friday 6 July 2018 will be implemented in the near future. Once the royal decrees approved by the Council of Ministers have been signed by myself in my capacity as Minister of Energy and by the King, the publication of an extract of each of the 17 acts approved in the Belgian Official Journal will follow. Afterwards, a certified copy of the 17 royal decrees adopted will be notified to the respective detained candidates. At the same time, a duly reasoned letter will be sent to each of the non-prone candidates. As long as the decision of the Council of Ministers of 6 July 2018 has not been implemented, no further details can be disclosed on the identity of the candidates and on the nature and extent of the projects submitted, given the confidential nature of the discussions in the Council of Ministers. The administration has therefore given me an instruction relating to the appeal period. I'll sign these royal decrees today or tomorrow. They will leave for the King's signature and will be published in the Moniteur belge. The administration will send a letter to the projects not selected to indicate this to them, but this action will have to be carried out at the same time for issues of recourse. I have sent you a list of the 17 projects selected. I'll give you information about the projects that you're most interested in, related to nuclear energy. Compared to questions 3 and 4, the authorised expenditure of the funds is defined in heading 32-24 of the table annexed to the Organic Act of 27 December 1990 establishing budgetary funds: "The Fund is intended to finance measures to encourage and support research and development in innovative energy projects within the competence of the Federal State, as well as measures to maintain and/or develop and/or seek a system to ensure security of supply and balance of the network, in particular as regards energy production and storage, as well as demand management." In our very long parliamentary history, two periods have taken place: a first period during which Mr Vande Lanotte et al. wanted to introduce an amendment aimed at preventing the third Coo basin from being financed by the Transition Fund, and then a second flight of amendments which you introduced, Mr Nollet and Mr Calvo, aimed at excluding nuclear power production from the possibility of being eligible for the Fund. Since nuclear energy is also a federal state, within the energy field – necessarily its exclusive competence – projects could be taken into account for financial support as part of the energy transition and, therefore, in the context of the transition to a technologically neutral and sustainable energy system and as a full investment in the research and development of an expansion of the energy mix. This is the first item in the definition contained in the royal decree I have just mentioned. I repeat: "Financing measures to encourage and support research and development in innovative energy projects within the competence of the Federal State". Of the 17 projects submitted by my administration, 16 were submitted by me for government approval. I did not select one of the 17 projects because, at the time of submission of the tender, it did not meet the criterion for co-financing by the European Investment Bank. Another project was identified, given that the criterion was met at the time of submission of the tenders. Let's talk about the eight waste treatment and related research and development projects. Some of them are included in the list you have in front of you. The first is the AZOV project. Its objective is to initiate research in a Belgian framework focusing on the clear optimisation of final evacuation concepts, both in terms of intrinsic safety (decrease in total radiotoxicity) and in terms of footprint (area necessary for disposal). This is a research involving the development of innovative processes for the separation, conversion and packaging of spent fuel, which will have to be cooled in air storage facilities until around 2080, before being permanently buried. The basic research proposed here focuses on an advanced separation strategy aimed at optimal separation and packaging of fuel. The second project concerns the treatment of radioactive waste with plasma technology. Plasma technology involves the treatment of waste with a plasma torch at 5,000 degrees Celsius. Liquid and inorganic waste evaporates and is then oxidized in a post-combustion device and inorganic waste melts. The feasibility study for which this financial support is requested aims to show what part of the existing and future Belgian waste could benefit from treatment with plasma technology and what the economic advantage would be. In other words, what will be the volume reduction factor for each type of technically eligible waste? The third project is on fuel corrosion modelling. This project aims to provide an atomistic description of the defects that occur during corrosion to UO2 and U3O8 – don't ask me what it is! – in particular by studying the characteristics of the intermediate oxide, U3O7, which is the main precursor to the formation of U3O8. A better understanding of the degradation (oxidation and corrosion) of spent fuels is needed for storage planning and final disposal of Belgian spent fuel. The fourth is the Archer project, which provides for the mechanization and use of robots for characterization. Most of the work related to nuclear decommissioning is still carried out using manual and low-tech equipment. The innovations that are sought through this project will allow to automate, accelerate and improve the characterization process. In addition, the safety of workers will be improved by reducing their exposure to radiation and the risk of contamination through process automation. The fifth is entitled "Automation of measures". At present, the removal of installations and buildings, i.e. after dismantling of activated wall, floor and ceiling installations and the disinfection of contaminated wall, floor and ceiling installations, is always carried out by operators who manually verify the entire surface by means of a measuring device. The advantages of automation and digitisation lie in three different areas of the measurement process. First of all, there is the economic aspect. Automation significantly increases efficiency and reduces costs. Secondly, automation can significantly reduce the error rate in the measurement process, eliminating human error in the principle of measurement, interpretation and data storage. In addition, automation improves the traceability and reproducibility of measurements made. This is important not only for the operational organisation around dismantling but also for accountability to the competent authorities. This also reduces the risk of toxicity to humans. The sixth project concerns the modularisation of dismantling and decontamination techniques. For decommissioning activities, installations are incorporated or constructed as new semi-permanent installations at the sites concerned and, consequently, in the controlled areas. These must themselves be dismantled after completion of the work, resulting in an additional amount of radioactive waste being contaminated. The innovative approach is to transform these facilities into modular cells that can be docked or connected to existing controlled areas, then used during planned work and then disconnected and moved by nuclear transport to a future site or intermediate storage location. In this way, the radioactive waste from the facility itself is considerably reduced. It is possible to select only the relevant modules for the application of dismantling, thus avoiding unnecessary exposure of unused components to potential additional contamination. The last project is the feasibility and characterization study. The large amount of radioactive and contaminated waste that will be produced as part of the nuclear release and subsequent dismantling of Belgian nuclear facilities will be a major challenge in characterising and treating such waste. Current characterization systems are often very large, difficult to access and restrictive in terms of materials that can be characterized. In addition, characterization often takes place under laboratory conditions. The innovative character of this project is to design a measurement system based on gamma spectrometry which will make it possible to easily characterize the waste produced in the various packagings (200 liters drums, 400 liters drums, several cubic metres containers, etc.).), so that this material can quickly be found in the right waste stream. This involves the validation of a detector that requires little or no shielding but is capable of performing gamma spectrometry with acceptable resolution. Samples that are validated radiologically can then be used to provide a representative picture of the contamination of the entire facility or batch of waste. This is the description of all the projects that have been offered and proposed under this Transition Fund, which are related to the first items of the Royal Decree and which all deal with the treatment of waste and the improvement of the latter, in particular through mechanization, in order to better safeguard human lives. This has nothing to do with nuclear power production or storage. We can go back if you want, but the first part of our long-term work was on whether or not to allow, in terms of amendments made by the opposition and Mr Vande Lanotte in particular, to Electrabel to finance, through the Energy Transition Fund, Coo's third storage pool since the Transition Fund is also dedicated to innovative storage – even if it is not innovative storage, I make it clear. I said that there is no question that what we are taking on one side, we are taking it on the other side from the head of Electrabel, that is, from the company that produces electricity through the operation of the nuclear power plants in this country. Nuclear power production is excluded. I said it several times, but I may have misworded it. I therefore understand that you are pointing out in the text a place where I have spoken about nuclear energy, but it is still nuclear power production. In fact, Messrs. Calvo and Nollet were not mistaken, since their amendment subsequently tabled concerned precisely the exclusion of nuclear power production. These amendments were not voted by a majority. But despite this, or thanks to it – thanks to the work done in committee by the majority and the opposition – no project offerer has proposed innovative nuclear power production. None. The only project we have received that has a more or less loose connection to nuclear power production – rather loose and distant, in fact – is waste treatment. I will admit that I did not see myself denied the possibility of allowing research and development to improve this treatment, more technologically and mechanically (through the use of robots), through all this research and the resulting industrial applications. I did not see myself intervening in the Council of Ministers by saying to refuse these plans. You see the list of projects selected from among those we have received. I have a list of all the projects that have been offered. We'll talk about it later, after the royal decrees are published. We have really tried to accept as many projects as possible and to use the maximum 30 million. I still wanted to bring in a project to use the remaining amount, a little less than 2 million euros, to reach 30, because it will be more complicated to use it next time, but I was not followed. We've done everything we can. We are providing almost €28 million for projects. Some of these projects concern the treatment of nuclear waste, because we must also examine all projects on an equal basis, as the administration rightly points out. The selection and award criteria contained in the Royal Decree are carefully examined. You saw him last year, since only one project had passed the course of the allocation of resources. This was Elia's project. All the others had been sloppy. This allowed some bidders to refine and properly complete their files to pass the ramp of extremely rigorous administration analysis. I followed 90% of the administration analysis. I exchanged projects on the basis of a legal opinion that a project could not be retained because it did not yet have the assurance of having partial financing from the European Investment Bank. That's the explanation. I have given you thanks for reading the texts, but I could read them to you. I checked everything. First of all, I won't read them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u92	You're right, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u93	I don't know if I'm right, but I have enough to feed the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u94	We are in the context of the oral questions. As much as Members like to receive answers, so much time has to be limited. If some of our colleagues want to see some additions, they will not fail to tell us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u95	I'm at your disposal. We can come back later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u96	Minister, this is not my reply. I also asked you if ENGIE Electrabel was involved in one or more projects and if so, which ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u97	I think she's involved in a Tecnubel project. I asked, via a collaborator, what percentage of shares Electrabel owned in Tecnubel company. I can send you these numbers. But I cannot exclude, on the basis of an objective criterion, a company that offers a project that meets all the criteria for selection and allocation, on the pretext that part of its shareholding would be that of a company that we said could not recover the funds from the Fund on-line, even though those funds came from it. I'm talking about the funds in the fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u98	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for giving the list. I'm sure we can appreciate that. However, with regard to your answer, there are still major questions. You are defending yourself by saying that it is not about producing electricity from nuclear power. I do not doubt that the various projects you have listed will be very useful and will contribute to a number of things. However, the fact that subsidies are given to the storage of nuclear waste, to the automation of the risk of contamination and decontamination and to decommissioning is remarkable. After all, these things are the result of the production of nuclear energy. It would be only natural that the decommissioning and the problem of nuclear waste should be borne by ENGIE, a point which we are discussing far too little. However, in fine terms these costs will be passed on to society because ENGIE does have facilities, but it has been said several times that these will not be enough. By rebooting Objective 1 and Objective 2, we had a little bit of hope that there would be some kind of recovery that could be invested in renewable energy and research. However, there are 8 projects dealing with the consequences of nuclear energy. In fact, this should be funded by ENGIE Electrabel and the companies. You started with the claim that it wasn't a cardigan pocket operation, but indirectly it is. I am very disappointed in that. We cannot see it because we also do not know which projects were refused. If there are interesting projects, which are about renewable energy, then this is more than a missed opportunity. Now it's a gift to Electrabel again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u99	The last word is always in Parliament. The congressman always has the last word. We can always reply to the reply, if the points of view are different, but in this case it has no end. This is Mrs Temmerman's assessment. If you have more information for your answer, I agree, but I will always have to give Parliament the last word. The plenary session begins at 2.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u100	Mr. President, it's 1:32 p.m. I agree. This was not information, but a simple answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u101	At the end of the session, we are a little out of normal operation. After the line, normally, it's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u102	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the full information she has provided. It's still a missed opportunity. I cannot calculate exactly how many million euros go to the consequences of nuclear production, that is to say, to the management of nuclear waste, because I do not have the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u103	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u104	Madam Minister, I have just said "the consequences". I listened to you almost religiously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u105	Ms. Lalieux keeps the floor for her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u106	You have to ask Catherine Fonck if I am improving with time. Let's go back to our sheep, Mr. President. So I was talking about the consequences of nuclear power production, as you said earlier. Nearly 10 million are devoted to the consequences of nuclear power production, whereas they should have gone to other sectors of research and development, particularly in the field of renewable energy. The minister, very sincerely, of our discussions on the Energy Transition Fund, I note that it was going to be as far away from nuclear power production as possible. However, we note that nuclear power comes in the form of a boomerang effect and accounts for one third of the budget allocated to the Fund. That's a shame!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u107	Minister, there is nothing in your answer to show how it is consistent with the commitments you made to Parliament. I repeat: "These will be new methods of energy production, such as tidal and energy storage". Of course, your answer was not limited to these solutions. That is normal, since it was simply a matter of illustrating your proposal. That said, you were talking about "new methods of energy production". That was the commitment you made in Parliament. Moreover, that is why we have tabled a specific amendment which did not allow these "new methods" to involve the use of nuclear energy. I accept that the projects chosen do not contain any form of nuclear power production. However, there is more to it than "new methods of energy production". That is why your word no longer has value in this regard. You also talked about it in the press. I can read Le Soir on March 7: "I will oppose any nuclear-related project". In fact, your government is getting away with a decision that, to the tune of $9.7 million, allocates resources to the nuclear sector. You explained yourself about the content of the projects: optimisation of waste, separation of spent fuel, mechanization, use of robots for dismantling. I would like to understand how this helps the energy transition? It's management of the "shits" of the past! It's not transition. It's not turning to the future, it's turning to the past. You have bluffed Parliament. You lied by presenting a project that had nothing to do with what, in the end, was retained by the government. You will tell me that everything is correct in relation to the call for tenders. Of course! The problem is that you have included in the call for tenders an axis 2 devoted to nuclear energy. Inside this axis, you even talk about nuclear production. That's because there's no project. The terms "nuclear fission" and "nuclear fusion" are used in innovative nuclear energy projects. The terms "dismantling" and "waste management" are reflected in the call for tenders. Projects are obviously on the way, but this is not at all reflected in the commitment made to Parliament. This is totally contrary to this commitment. I challenge you to find a passage, during these hours in Parliament, on the management of nuclear waste, where access to the Energy Transition Fund is mentioned, in relation to the eight projects selected. Every time you speak in committee, you talk about the future and the transition. You never talk about the management of the past. Of course, everything has to be managed. But it is not the money for the transition of the future that has to pay for the waste of the past, which is more for nuclear power.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u108	I think Mr. Nollet put the pole on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u109	He does so knowingly, according to an organization of which he has the secret and which is destined to maintain the debate, which is not a bad thing. In essence, the questions are the same and are put in the same way by the three parliamentarians. In 1975 and 1980, when nuclear power plants began to be installed in the country, they would automatically produce waste, like any technical infrastructure. At the time, we know that, but we do not care enough about it, especially since they are completely new and complicated techniques to be implemented. That is why we have a relatively important know-how in Belgium, which can be used as a business card abroad. We must not hide our face because, even if we find – and this is also my opinion – that the production of electricity in this way is complex, dangerous and must be strictly monitored and that, in the context of the work on nuclear supplies, I am pursuing the polluter-pays lens, it is clear that it is not the extension of Doel 1, Doel 2 or Tihange 1 by the previous government that has changed it considerably in terms of the volume of waste treatment or the characterisation and danger of such waste. From the moment you open a funding opportunity in the context of the federal state's jurisdiction, you cannot exclude – according to the Council of State, and that is why I have refused your amendments – a particular energy. This is in order to avoid legitimate remedies against this legislation. With regard to the way in which project promoters have proposed to do so, I also depend on their imagination, their ability to present projects, their level of knowledge of the existence of this fund, etc. The rejected projects were for good reasons, since after the small youth illnesses of the Royal Decree and the fact that only one project was retained at the time, I managed to put back in the financing of future projects the money that had not been used in 2016 and 2017. I have handed them over for 2018, 2019 and 2020. Here, I cannot reach 30 million and I will have to keep within the scope of the fund the difference between the total amount of projects selected and the amount of the 2018 allocation, but I will not be able to use it in 2019 because there are complex budgetary impacts that need to be reviewed through a subsequent decision of the Council of Ministers. My goal really was to finance as many projects as possible. Those who were refused were refused by the administration, which - with its experience - examined them very rigorously. If either were dedicated to renewable energy or innovative energy production - because I can no longer remember the list of projects submitted - we could not have taken them back. I did everything I could to try to put one in, but I couldn't, because it did not meet eleven of the eighteen or nineteen criteria. It is regrettable that a budget is allocated to some projects rather than others, but only to those that are eligible. Next year, we will introduce a percentage into the financial manna in order to better sell the fund. To answer Mr Nollet, I would never have imagined – because I am not a specialist in the field of energy – that innovative research and development projects in terms of waste treatment would be proposed. Very honestly, how do you want me to tell you about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u110	You wrote it in your call! "The management of radioactive waste and spent fuel..."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u111	Mr Nollet, I know that it is difficult for you to do without me and that I am responsible for everything, night and day, and in particular everything that is written or not. We know that speech. If you imagine that I prepared the tender, you're wrong! The administration explained to me that nothing could be ruled out. The Council of State also presented it. I said it and repeated it to my administration, but she replied that there was nothing to do: "We have to look at the projects in an absolutely equal way, as long as they meet the award and selection criteria." I can't tell you anything else. You can make regrets, but you can help us by disseminating information about the Fund's support for innovative projects so that they can be taken into account in the next call for tenders we hope to launch in August. I would like a government - finally, ours - to be still in office before the elections in May 2019 to decide on a call for projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u112	Minister, thank you for your answers. It looked a little like a mini-debate, but that was a little bit of the point. I give the floor for a last turn of lines, and then we will stay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u113	Madam Secretary, you are answering the wrong questions, or the questions that were not asked. It's not about these not being interesting projects. I just said this. The point is that you use the Energy Transition Fund for old energy. This isn't about transition. However, there are many challenges related to that transition. In the past, in the nineteenth century, we had textile factories and lakes that caused a great deal of pollution. If pollution is detected today in the ground and the owner still exists, he will be held responsible for cleaning up that pollution. ENGIE Electrabel still exists. They are responsible for the waste from their production, not the government. We cannot therefore spend public money on this. This is about transition, and you don't. You have not invested in renewable energy. You invested in something from the past. In addition, you are subsidising ENGIE Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u114	I would like to make a brief reply, Mr. President. Minister, it is true that the Transition Fund is not provided for these financial projects up to $10 million. I hear that there have been no other projects eligible under the call for tenders. In this case there is a question of method and I hope that you will change it. We have not seen the projects eliminated, but I am sure that many companies would obviously have liked to hand over a project that could be selected in relation to new and not old energies. Again, I have the impression that the adage "butter, butter money and smile" prevails, to say politely "farmer". I've said enough and I'm getting tired! So I'm going to stay there, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Lalieux. Mr Nollet, I leave you the floor for the last reply of the parliamentary session in these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u116	Neither in the Minister's supplementary response nor in her initial response, there is a citation when she certified that she had dozens of documents with her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u117	No, no, no, no, no, no! Not at all! Please finish!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u118	At no time has she been able to explain and justify what has been said in committee or in plenary. It has never been able to cite any link with nuclear waste in the statements it has made or the commitments it has made in committee or in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u119	Mr Nollet, I agree to spend half an hour with you to show you all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u120	No, no... it's not exercise!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u121	What do you mean, no, no!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u122	Mr Nollet has the floor for his last reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u123	It's 1:49 p.m., Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-17-54-commissie-ic951x.u124	Let's be clear! It is obviously necessary to finance research in this area, but as my excellent colleagues have said, the Transition Fund is not intended to provide this funding. There is a need because today we realize that we have nuclear waste that we have not managed without knowing what to do with them. Okay, we need to finance this management, but it's not for the Transition Fund, but for them to do it. And you were not able to quote a single excerpt from your earlier comments that justified it. Madam Minister, we are no longer in a "polluter/payer" system but in a "polluter/profider" system. They take advantage of this Transition Fund, whose aim was to be forward-looking, to go for €9.7 million (to be precise) that were not intended for them. If we want to look to the future, we must not rely solely on other projects or promoters. You have to tell your administration that the energy transition is not the management of the past, since it will be your administration that will launch the tenders. When a fund is defined and there is a question of transition, it is the future and not the past. If the administration considers that it is not necessary and sufficient to call it the Transition Fund, then the only solution is to amend the legislation defining precisely what will be done with the Transition Fund. Your colleagues have passed a lot of articles into the program laws. Nothing prevents you, within the framework of the legislation that will accompany the budget, from developing a definition of what the Transition Fund is. For me, the words you made in Parliament using the concept of transition are sufficiently clear. Obviously, this is not the case for you and perhaps for others as well. If we want to be positive in concluding this exchange, it is to include an amendment in the next program law at the beginning of the year.
