ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u1	I welcome you, Commissioner General. I would like to take this opportunity to wish you well on behalf of the follow-up committee. You have been poked enough to know that it can be a turbulent journey, but I wish you every success. You have followed the work of the Committee of Inquiry. You have also taken note of the recommendations we have made, in particular regarding the safety architecture hatch. The Committee of Inquiry has been reduced to a follow-up committee, which aims to check whether the recommendations adopted by Parliament by a large majority with unanimity are being implemented in practice, which is not often done. For that there is an important responsibility on your shoulders. I know you have a plane to catch at 5:00. That's why we start at this unusual hour. It is customary in this committee to have the speaker give a brief introduction. It is up to you to decide on its length, but above all we are going to make an interactive story of it and that I and the other Commissioners will have the opportunity to question you about it. I know that the government should never be questioned about its intentions, but you may not be able to avoid those questions. If you think it is too early to answer certain questions, then of course we have every understanding for that, but you have a global vision. You can, more than anyone, clarify things for us. I would therefore like to leave you to the floor for your introduction. Afterwards, members of the committee will be given the opportunity to ask questions to which an immediate reply can be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u2	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your congratulations, including those on behalf of the Follow-up Committee. Although I think it is obvious that the new Commissioner-General is being called upon to do so in the context of the useful work of this committee, I would also like to thank him for allowing me to come and explain, clarify and reply so quickly. You know that this is entirely in line with my beliefs about transparency and accountability and, of course, I will continue to be at the disposal of the committee. With regard to this first exchange of views, I thought it was appropriate to structure my introduction into three parts. The first relates to my macro vision of the federal police. It is already quite concrete and takes into account the recommendations of this commission. I will address the second part quickly – in two or three minutes – to indicate the methodology for the follow-up of the federal police in the implementation of these recommendations. Finally, the third has twenty-two very concrete points, still in relation to the committee's recommendations. They take into account what you call, Mr. President, the "laaghanggen fruit". Of course, I take into account the coordinated response that the committee has already received from the Prime Minister's cabinet. I also take into account the dialogue that took place here last week with the two ministers. My input will be somewhat anticipating questions, but certainly complementary to last week's dialogue. You will find that I will soon dance le vif du sujet. First hatch, my vision. Since my swearing-in on 15 June last, I think that, in a consistent manner, both internally and externally, I have already been asked questions about this: I do not want yet another substantial reform of the federal police structures. I have done so very consciously, explicitly and unequivocally, but I do not want to make any mention of the fact that we are going for the status quo or the standstill, quite the contrary. Evolutions, improvements and changes are forcing themselves, but not through yet another reorganisation of the organization, of the structures. The federal police are tired of reform. Let that be a clear and indisputable conclusion from my long-standing contacts with the social partners, among others. The next reorganisation, I believe, threatens to become too much of a reform. I think it is correct and important, as a final responsibility, to give that analysis and that warning. The federal component of the Belgian police was regularly reformed. If one expands that on a timeline, from the 1990s onwards, it becomes clear that every five to six years it was "striking price." Hence the focus from now on processes, procedures and functional adjustments. In this I was equally convinced in my communication last week, just as clear and unambiguous. I would point out that my communication from the previous weeks had two parts. In the first, I pointed out that it would be a mistake to attack structures again substantially. So it was only half of my message, because in the second part, I indicated that attention should be paid to processes, procedures and operating procedures. That there are no misunderstandings about it. I am committed to the functional elimination of dissipation, I am committed to sharing, both internally and externally, I use the words of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on synergy, on cultural change and management, and I will give myself the right tone and style in that, without being overruled. I make it a point within the federal police to get thinking, solving, treating, doing and speaking with one voice crescendo into the minds and genes. Moreover, the area is itself a party asking for it and it is in line with the committee's recommendations. I would like to make a few specific comments, even though I only have four weeks left on the counter. I have made a commitment not to work on structures, work on processes, procedures and functional aspects, which are very strictly monitored. I will give two perhaps daring, yet speaking examples. Let me give you a first example. Even if the forthcoming evaluation of the optimization exercise did not lead me to anticipate this; that is the work of the Federal Police Council, moreover, that it would be appropriate to merge the mandates of DirCo and DirJud, then I do not think that now is the time to do so. The timing of a solution is sometimes as crucial as the solution itself. Let me give you a second example, which relates to my position. Even if I have a clear concept of the place and operation of the Commissioner-General as a CEO within the federal police force, and you can compare that with that of a police chief in a local police area, with his support services and one operational deputy, I will not transfer the DirCos to DGA, for example. After all, I am conceptually in favour of a model with a very small Commissioner-General, of a small 400 staff. Who can you count on for that? The people at the level director, an integrity cell and also the audit cell. I would like to take this opportunity to introduce the person who is sitting with me: Mrs Aurore Sonon, my support for policy department, which is examining, in particular, the follow-up to the implementation of the recommendations. You can count on those people, too. In addition, there are the three executives you know: CGI, the international police cooperation that the Commissioner-General must of course direct, the Welfare Service that should be legally assigned to the Commissioner-General and the internal and external communication service. Such a service of 400 people enables the Commissioner-General to have more room for policy work and direction, which could even be ad hoc operational and less management responsibilities, as is currently the case with the 3 300 posts assigned to the Commission. I have been working for four weeks and I can tell you that very often I have to use my pen for pure management files of those 3 300 people. However, I believe that it is more pragmatic and intelligent to consolidate the situation for a certain time and not to make major internal transfers, either from Commissioner-General to Directorate-General or from Directorate-General to Commissioner-General. After all, I know that the committee, referring to pages 371 and 372 of the report, is rather an embedding of the devolved judicial services as part of the Commissioner-General. To establish a parallelism with the DirCos, we must place the DirJuds in the direction of the Office of the Commissioner General. In my view, this conflictes with the aforementioned valid arguments. It would also substantially empty DGJ and reduce it to a quarter. That being said, it is often in working models, culture, practices and leadership. I will come back to it in concrete terms later. Mr President, that was the first axis of my vision. The second axis of my vision is modernisation in the sense of innovation, automation, digitisation, interconnectivity and interoperability. In that respect, the federal police still have to step up a famous tooth. I still express myself euphemistically. The board of DRI is a pioneer for our future and must be cherished. Projects such as iPolice and Focus but also LogisPol, i+Belgium and Police Search are of vital importance. In my capacity as Commissioner-General, I must pay particular attention to the DRI Executive Board. The workload is very high and the working atmosphere is tense. This requires from many, not only the DG and the DGR but also myself the best HR skills. I would like to bring that to the attention of the committee. I am talking about the position of the DRI Executive Board, which is incredibly questioned, and this is my finding throughout all these years much more than before simultaneously by the two custody ministers. We live in an era of automation and digitisation. Both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice have their concerns and priorities. They both question that board regularly, frequently and simultaneously. We will have to be really attentive to that board. People must not perish under the pressure that is thus created. It is up to me, among other things, to be responsible for ensuring that this does not happen. That's gonna take a lot of attention. Mr President, that was the part about my vision and the two main components of that vision. As far as methodology is concerned, as I announced, I will be brief. Last week, the Minister of the Interior has already told you that the federal police have developed a methodology to monitor the implementation of these recommendations. This methodology was validated by the two ministers who led it by a steering committee composed of the two ministries, the federal police and the local police. In concrete terms, we have structured this into six clusters for which an official has been appointed. Clusters and sub-projects relate to information management, DGJ, DGR, DGA, CGI (international police cooperation) and the Office of the Commissioner General's residual. Perhaps I could make a suggestion to the committee here and ask that requests for explanations should always be dealt with through my channel. Afterwards, the clusters can be adequately dispersed and you will receive a coordinated and validated response of the level CG. You are entitled to such an answer and you will have it. Which brings me to the third part. There I have announced 22 very specific points, focusing on many recommendations and low-hanging fruit. The two custody ministers spoke here last week. They have already given a detailed state of play. I'm avoiding double use. Hence my specifications about 22 concrete issues, which the committee certainly cares about. They usually include agreements that will be implemented in this year, in 2018. Firstly, the day after my arrival, I personally took an initiative to fundamentally change the operation of the National Invasion Point or NIP, to further dismantle the dissipation in this matter and to allow the federal police to speak and report with one voice. My starting point is that the federal police must be able to generate one current report for those responsible daily by one channel from the hierarchical line. My predecessor's arrangement laid the final rule on this matter with her policy staff. She certainly had her reasons. However, I see this fundamentally differently. The line must have that final direction, not the policy-makers, who, by the way, can disappear from the picture overnight. The line must do so, structured, professionally and integrated. It is also the case that at least three reports are generated daily, one from DAO, one from DJO and then an arrondissement overview. There is also an occasional report from CGI. I don't see it that way. An integrated current report should be provided. After a working visit to the NIP and the internal consultation on this matter, we will submit a new NIP procedure to the Management Committee the day after tomorrow. The communication of the essentialia in that one report to the outside world, namely OCAD and the crisis centre, is also discussed and will be streamlined into a unanimous text. This seems to me to be an important and useful first statement by the new Commissioner-General, which is anything but anecdotal. I believe that this statement is perfectly reflected in the committee's decisions and orientations. If the committee so wishes, I will provide you with a copy of the new teachings as soon as they are ready and translated. The new method of working, or should I say way of thinking, or even better cultural mindsetting, will enter into force on 1 September next. So much for my first point, the review of the new procedure. Secondly, it was really no coincidence that last Wednesday, during the NATO summit, I attended more than 4 hours together with the two operational DGs on the ground. We need to act more in block. We need to show ourselves more in block. Thirdly, I have intended to communicate this internally with the DirCos and the DirJuds in order to streamline more coherently, and that I will be attending the afternoon meetings of the DirCos and the DirJuds in the light of the monthly daily meetings we hold in Brussels with the DirCos and the DirJuds. I believe that this is a very concrete and much more useful contribution to the parallel treatment envisaged by the Committee by DirCo's and the CirJud's. Fourthly, there will often be a binomial démarche in relation to the judicial authorities. Underneath, it means that CG and DGJ will mostly be on the same page together. Given the powers and responsibilities that the law assigns to me, this seems trivial, self-evident to me. Fifth, on information management, ministers already explained at the crossroads bank. My services will assume their responsibilities in the framework of the work of the overall conciliation committee, which they have replaced and which will have to work between September and December of this year. The federal police will be on the appeal. Sixthly, as far as information management is concerned, this is a very concrete issue, and I would like to confirm here that, at the end of June, ministers were given a vision text on police information management to validate and align with their vision text on the crossroads bank. The concerned text is one of the integrated police because it was discussed at the first meeting of the Integrated Police Coordination Committee (CGPI) in which I participated. I also already received the aval from the Bureau of the Standing Committee of the local police. I didn't get that from the General Assembly yet, so I've got another blow to make. It is, from a cultural point of view, an important document, a reference text for the future, covering, among other things, the data value chain, governance and data security. Of course, the text can be made available to the members of the committee, but you will hear that I still have a small reservation in the sense that the General Assembly of the Standing Committee has yet to look at it. However, I have no problem delivering the draft version already. I know from the two cabinets that the vision text on police information management matches the vision text on the crossroads bank. That means we're not working side by side anyway. Seventhly, still on information flux but more micro and concrete, the first phase of the policesearch application, being that on terra, should be operational at the end of 2018, and that between DJSOC and the five resorts. It is a search tool above all research files that are managed in the GES tool. This enables a terrobe questioning within the existing research files, as well as a survey of other crime phenomena. In a later phase, a further roll-out is planned for all FGPs and the areas using GES. By the end of the year, this important Police Search application will thus be online for the purpose of combating terra. Eighthly, with regard to RIR and RAR, ministers have already given some clarification. They told you it wasn't technically that simple after all. An interface called Register Follow-ups and Signals was built this spring, the commissioning of which is planned for the end of 2018. The same interface will thus allow RIRs and RACs to merge into one police report in the course of the first semester of 2019 without waiting for big brother iPolice. Ninthly, there is the conversion of i+Hainaut to i+Belgium; I didn't happen to start on the theme of the information exchange. They work there in four phases. The first two phases, namely the acquisition of the management of users by DRI, one of their many tasks, and the direct feeding of the ANG, are still before 2018. The two final phases, namely GDPR compliance, safety and full integration are planned in 2019. Tenth, still on information management, but with an international aspect, it is useful to know that, even by the end of 2018, the ANG will be accessible to the liaison officers through the B-Secure application. 11th, on the L.O. Network since we are talking about liaison officers, I will ensure, together with my management CGI, that there will be a new updated evaluation of that network by the end of 2018. The Ankara or Istanbul assessment will also be completed in the autumn. I have read in the report that your committee considers it desirable to consider this. Well, in implementation of that recommendation, that assessment is being seriously worked on. That was the first eleven points. I now come to the following points. I shall begin with some very specific issues with specific deadlines for the DGJ. We also need to move from an announcement mode to a proclamation mode in this area. Twelve, the long-awaited ILP note will be delivered to the College of Attorneys General by the Director General DGJ by the end of this month, in accordance with agreements which have been forged before my arrival and which I wish to respect. It concerns the ILP note between the five FGPs, the other FGPs and DJSOC. Thirteen, the service offer/added value of the DJSOC Terro to the five plus nine will be formalized and finalized by the end of this month, thus creating the clarity required by your committee on job definition. Then there will be guidelines for the DirCos and then the other stakeholders. Fourteen, the service offer/value added from the DJSOC IRU to the RCCUs follows the same timing and ratio and will thus also be formalized and finalized by the end of this month. Fifteen, the working model of DGJ, on which your committee has also made statements, will be adapted by the end of this year, with adjustments to operational management and coordination by the DGJ. That too is entirely in line with the decisions of your committee. This operational coordination should go beyond the mere division of workload, files and claims of judicial authorities. It must also contribute to this, I shall ensure that research culture and strategy are more homogeneous and that working methods and processes are more uniform. In the first weeks of my term of office, I spoke in depth to the Director General of the judicial police, who endorsed the same commitments and the same timing. Point 16. The operating model and operational control are linked to the capacity utilisation, including for the federal prosecutor's office. There too, I will enter into the dialogue, bearing in mind that, of course, they are all communicating capacity vessels according to the resources available. Item 17. I have also asked the DGJ to validate the mission letters of the DirJuds, because a "formal" validation by the hierarchy has not yet taken place. Mission letters exist, but until now they have never been validated by the hierarchy, which is still a problem. It has made a commitment to do so without delay and to combine a "business plan" approach with what is being done within the FPS, as you probably know. Item 18. JICs (Joint Information Centre) and JDC (Joint Decision Centre). Ministers had said that this issue would be discussed at the National Security Council last Friday, and that was the case. There will still be a final discussion within the CCRS (Intelligence and Security Coordination Committee) to determine how these concepts will be implemented. As usual, the FGP Brussels already starts with the exhaustive description of the processes to be carried out, in the JICs and in the JDCs, in other words, in the description of le manual, as you did in the course of your work at the FGP Brussels. Attention was drawn to the additional resources needed, particularly in terms of the BINI network. To whom credit belongs, the Attorney General of Brussels has taken that case. A copy of the JIC/JDC note will be sent to the committee via the Brussels PG. The National Security Council has given the green light to this. Nineteen. By the end of 2018, we should continue to have a published KB Article 102, which, by the way, advised the last DirCom favorably. These are the research activities that are still being maintained at the central level. Then that will finally be finalized. By the end of 2018, we should also be able to have a KB SICAD, a KB in implementation of Article 104a of the WGP. The importance of this service is stark at the lead time of that design. It'll take a long time. The draft text sets out very useful issues, strategic guidelines, tactical guidelines, operational guidelines, to be developed by DirCom on the one hand, and DRI on the other, and finally by the DirCo itself on the other. I think it's our joint duty to do that. Twenty. And this brings us to the concrete initiatives on support services. First of all, I believe that the importance of the adjustments to recruitment and selection cannot be sufficiently emphasised. That is much more than a purely statutory matter. It is related and I would stress that with essential other aspects such as diversity, capacity, speciality, operational functioning, underutilisation, all of which have been raised in the report and subsequent discussions. I have been advocating for a very long time and I have a warm credo for one-on-one recruitment. You may know this: just after the Octopus reform, in the form of a certain self-audit and some autocriticism, I published some contributions in the Vigiles trade journal, stating that in some aspects of the statute and functioning it is a little too much freedom and happiness for the individual, and that the general interest is getting a little upset. In the autumn of 2018 we will make a famous effort to balance the balance. I regard this as a critical success factor overall, given the various aspects mentioned above that impact recruitment and selection. It's quite a job, but we have to go for it. What are we gonna do? We will speed up the trials, reduce their number and change their content. We'll put the areas in the bath and take responsibility for them. We are going to develop, in addition to the generalist sector, that of specialist profiles. Above all, we are going to link a candidate to one of the 188 employers before starting basic training. This has many advantages, both qualitatively, budgetaryly and functionally. That worked at the time of the city police. Why not now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u3	May I ask you to explain this to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u4	I plead for "one-for-one" recruitment, which means that the link between the candidate taking the selection examination and the candidate's future employer must be established before he or she starts his or her basic training, which is not at all the case at present. We recruit, we select and people start their basic training and, if it buys, he or she doesn't even make the choice to go left or right. Knowing that if they don't make a choice, they're at the federal police. They pass their basic training and are appointed to the federal police. You'll understand that, budgetaryly, it's pretty annoying for the federal police. Assuming no one opts for employment with the local police, they are all on the federal police and on the federal police budget. But that's not how the calculations are made. I am really in favour of having a recruitment "one for one": Mr. x applies to the area y. He starts his training and does his internships, perhaps also observation courses elsewhere, but he does his internships directly in the area y. He begins to know the people, customs and guidelines of the prosecution. The zones are responsible because they know that the lady or gentleman will come to work at home. They're going to be responsible. I believe that they are doing a better job in their mentorship and that it will also increase students' chances of success. These are the functional and budgetary benefits for the federal police. I'm responsible for the federal police and I'm in there with a budgetary contamination. We train people, who I do not know on the last day of training, whether they will all go left and right and whether there will be too much on the federal police budget. You will say that this has been well taken into account in terms of capacity, but we must continue to pay those people. That was the case with the municipal police in the past. Each municipality made its recruitments and then they went to the provincial municipal schools and at the end of the journey to the zone. I think that is fundamental, and I really think that is a critical success factor in the whole story, in quantitative, functional and budgetary terms. Paragraph 21, in cooperation with KPMG, will formalise and update its procedures, actors and responsibilities regarding procurement processes by October 2018, according to agreement. In the memorandum for the new federal government, I will make more far-reaching proposals on optimising the use/consumption of the funds voted, as this requires a debate and a decision-making process that goes beyond the federal police alone. I have read the committee's report and can tell you that the federal police now have a multi-annual investment and operation plan in place in terms of operation and investment. That's a premiere. That is the first MIWP multi-annual investment and operation plan worthy of the name, of the federal police. This will allow us to work more systematically and better, including with regard to the implementation and purchasing plan that follows. Point 22, I would like to add, but here I anticipate a little on the evaluation of optimization, and I leave that to the Federal Police Council, that it is my feeling that the DGA will have to work on better integrating DGA's first-line units into the district security policy and this through the DirCo channel. I have also had working meetings on this subject with the Director-General of the Administrative Police, who also endorses this need and method of working. You can see that as another shot at the bulkheads. That will probably sound like music to the ears of the committee. As far as administrative enforcement is concerned, I think I can refer to the Minister's answers. Mr President, in the light of the committee's recommendations, I found this list of topics and timing relevant to my contribution. I am now open to the exchange of views, which I hope I have already had accurate and concretely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u5	Thank you, Commissioner General. I have just told you that we can now organise a round of questions, but on the basis of a very specific approach, which, of course, always makes it easier for the debate. I shall come back to a number of points myself. You say that you are not in favour of further substantial reforms and that the police are tired of reform. I have more trouble with the second than with the first. You are talking about reform fatigue, but I think constant changes, innovations and adjustments should be possible, especially when we are faced with what the committee has examined, namely the attacks of 22 March. It is at such a time that a number of weaknesses are emerging, and that is what has driven us all this time. Of course, the responsibilities were examined, but the question was above all how we could strengthen the machinery. Your predecessor's question always came back to me as to what the capacity of the Commissioner-General was to do. We both know what is provided for in the legislation: the federal police summit is a model of consensus and if we cannot reach a consensus ourselves, then the law still provides for other avenues to be followed to the members of the government. However, the committee has considered that the Commissioner-General should actually be strengthened in his role in order to really talk about the CEO, the undisputed boss of the federal police, if I may put it that way. That is a point I would dare to insist on, because you are literally saying that these are things that you do not immediately think should be effective. In order to reform that fundamentally, a change of law is needed, but for a number of other points you do not need that change of law. However, it would sound like music to me that you will take effective account of the option of the committee and of the whole Parliament and that, in other words, that recommendation would be implemented immediately. Other things do require legal adjustments, I know that. However, I would like to emphasise this point. A second question is more specific and concerns something that I have understood less well, but that will be up to me. It is about the implementation of the joint decision and joint information. I know this was supposed to be on the Security Council last week. Mr Delmulle has already clarified a number of things about the Presidency, but it is about the fact that it would be phased out and that it would not start in the five entities, but that it would start in Brussels unless I misunderstood you. Do you think that's desirable? Do you think it is feasible for Brussels to start it in practice and to continue to work with other structures in other places? Personally, I do not think that is a good thing. We recommended it so that they would be effective everywhere. If that were to happen in stages, I do not think it would be appropriate. I come to my final question. You know that we have recommended the crossroads bank, following the model of the crossroads bank of social security. You also know what information households have grown, legally and sometimes less legally. Reports from the P Committee show that there is an urgent need to put things right. We wish to see the crossroads as quickly as possible. It seems important to me that we should be able to get Parliament to approve a piece of legislation on this, in order to give a clear signal that we really want to work from that point of view in the future. I would like to hear your opinion on this. Has that already penetrated? I do not want to see it happening in the meantime... Minister Geens was not convinced to do so immediately through the legislator, but I believe that, with some sort of framework law, it should be possible. Have you already given instructions or guidelines to ensure that people work effectively in the direction recommended by the Committee within the entire police landscape? I do not know if the committee wishes to add any questions to my own immediately. I think you can group your answers as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u6	Mr President, Commissioner General, I would like to thank you. I thought it was really interesting. In a very short time, what a recovery in hand, what a revival, and what a concern to associate yourself, in your reforms, with the recommendations of the committee. I really want to thank you for that. It was very concrete, but you spoke fast enough. We have taken note as we have been able and we will probably have the opportunity to see you again, perhaps after considering your written testimony and the first reforms that will be implemented. I would like to ask you to re-explain your point 4. You went very quickly around working together with the judicial authorities. And your point 17. You said you wanted the DirJud mission letters to be validated because there were problems. It would be interesting to come back to these problems, so you can explain them to us. For the rest, you said that you had put in place six clusters to follow up on the Commission's recommendations. I assume we will have regular information on the evolution of work in each of the six clusters through you. I think it is useful for the Monitoring Committee to observe this closely. As far as the exchange of information is concerned, there is obviously the central question of the joint centres, of both: information, action. I understand what our chairman is saying, namely that the committee's recommendations were to go towards the five at the same time, perhaps with a reference unit in Brussels, which is really the specialist in this field. I also said, as I repeated to Ministers Jambon and Geens, that it would be pretty good if other PJFs could also be reference PJFs for other areas. Minister Jambon does not seem convinced of each other, that we must do everything at the same time and specialize in each reference unit. I would like to have your opinion on the matter. Having said that, I agree with you that the work initiated in particular by Mr Delmulle, the impetus he gave to the Brussels Prosecutor General to put in place as soon as possible, in any case in Brussels, the committee's recommendation, is a good thing. The exchange of information also takes place through the data banks. We've also just talked about it. I say and repeat, with my experience and with regard to the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank, that it seems to me useful - especially since you are working, as you have just said, on a general vision - that this vision can be taken up in a framework law. The sound of nothing, such a framework law is important since it also conditions what happens after a legislature. I believe that this kind of work must lead us to a realization and optimisation that is not framed in a legislature but that can flourish through the long-term framework law. I am really in favour of this and I obviously support this idea. You made a very small reference to GDPR, but it is still not thin when you see the proliferation of data banks at the police level. There are hundreds of them, I think. We know that there is now a new European regulation and also a law that will probably be passed this week on the GDPR, the new data protection authorities, notably the COC, the P Committee and the R Committee as data protection authorities. Above all, there are a lot of obligations and I have the impression that, in relation to this surge of data banks, you will have to act. Indeed, even if, in addition to the GDPR regulation, there is a police-justice directive with some exceptions due to the peculiarities of police data banks and justice, I still have the impression that, for the moment, some rules of the directive are being diverged from. Perhaps it would be interesting for you to look at this. With regard to the shortage of staff and the support of the local police, you know that your predecessor had made an alarm call saying that there was 11% deficit, I think, and that if we did not take care of it - I no longer know where my figures are - it would increase in an impressive way to turn around 24 per cent. We are given figures each time by saying: "Don't worry, we've just hired several hundred policemen", without saying how many, at the same time, retire, for example. I have asked Minister Jambon the question, but I do not think I have the answer yet: can we know, as a percentage of executives, the evolution and the lack in relation to this and, above all, what is your policy to manage the "meer"? When executives aren't full, you have to make choices. These choices are complicated, there are calls for help from the local police and the federal police in many areas. It would be interesting to see what your policy will be in this area. Many of us will remember what happened with FAST. The number of units for FAST in Belgium and the Netherlands was compared. There was also a lot of talk about liaison officers. What will be your policy regarding gaps in all services related to terrorist attacks? As far as structural reforms are concerned, the PS is on the same wavelength as you. We said that we did not want major structural reforms. The latest major structural reforms are not yet fully "digested". On the other hand, recovery and optimisation are necessary, you have talked a lot about it. You said that in recruitment, there was a reform that you wanted to achieve. She seems interesting to me. You mentioned the question of diversity, but you did not say what you were going to do in practice. We are in the process of passing a series of legislations which, in part, want to fill the problems of diversity. Repentants, infiltrators are always motivated by the fact that there are not enough police officers who have the useful profile to integrate some particularly closed groups. It would therefore be important to take this into account in recruitment. How? You said that you were in favour of one-by-one recruitment and that there was an immediate need to establish a link between recruitment and the unit they would integrate. Will this lead you to change the rules on mobility? You know that this is one of the major problems that Brussels is facing in particular. I am sure that my colleague, Philippe Pivin, will raise the question of the police who arrive to leave immediately, as was the case with the Canal Plan. Can measures be taken at this level? I'm getting to the technical level. You said in the press that one of your priorities was to improve the procedures for purchasing hardware and to strengthen digital technology. In Phase 1 of our work, we said that the capacity of ASTRID radio needed to be strengthened and that the necessary budgets needed to be made available. How are things changing? Indeed, according to rumours, radio ASTRID was saturated at the NATO Summit in which President Trump participated. I would therefore like to know exactly what is happening. Looks like we should've gone back to the gsm. Is that correct? Should budgets be released? Finally, I would like to thank you for the concrete information you have already given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u7	Mr President, like Mrs Onkelinx, I would like to thank the Commissioner General for his presentation. To speak humorously, his statement of 22 points had a footbalistic connotation, even though it is mostly pragmatic. Commissioner-General, I would like to ask you three specific questions. You said you didn't want to work on the structures – we agree perfectly on this – that you wanted to look at how it works. I still remember the way in which your predecessor worked, who explained – Mr. Chairman made a slight reference to it in his first question – that it was essentially working by consensus, as the operational was discussing itself by consensus with the Directors General and making political decisions, but that in the end, it had not happened very often. That was, in any case, what had been noted in the exercise of his mandate. Will you also operate on the basis of consensus? You used an expression that makes me think that won't be the case. Indeed, you said you were going to give the "la". When we say that, it is usually that we do not function so much by consensus. I'd like you to explain your philosophy on this. Let me turn to my second question. I imagine that I am not the only one to think that way, but in my view the division of labour between the general or central Directorate of the Judicial Police and the deconcentrated Directorates has never been very clear. For us, the presentation of the difference between the roles of each one lacked clarity. We knew that the general or central management was coordinating and that operational management was in the hands of others. We talked about clarifying this and better allocating these tasks. What do you intend to do about it? Finally, you gave me some grinding grain for my third question. I had written the word "mobility" in large print on my sheet. I'd like you to explain your role vis-à-vis the local police forces. I agree with your "one for one" philosophy. This is very good except that the training does not last three months, but much more. And you know as I do that the budget for a year is not for the following year. If you intend to hire ten people in one year x, and the following year you have to tighten your belt, you can no longer hire them. But that's when they're going out. First, it is somewhat difficult to reconcile this with your philosophy. Secondly, you will have to go over the mobility mechanisms. Indeed, if someone has to decide, before they start their training, that they want to come to work in the Brussels-West area, it will not be, when they have finished their training and will no longer be on your budget but on ours, only after three months they say that finally, they do not like the climate and that they want to go elsewhere. I do not think that this should remain possible in the same way, otherwise this working philosophy will not guarantee security for us. I want to know how you see the future mobility of police officers before they get into training.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u8	Mr President, perhaps very briefly because many questions have already been asked. I, too, have the question of staffing. We have seen that out of 13 500 places only 11 000 have been filled in. We have received a list of the recruitments that have been made, but we still do not know whether or not these 13 500 have been completed. I would have liked to know how many seats have been filled in at the moment. Where are the deficits? We have also discussed the diversity of staff within the police forces in committee for a very long time. This is very important. I would have liked to know how we are working on a more diverse recruitment procedure. We have also discussed for a very long time the fact that some of the police people have the feeling of racism in their own ranks. We have not been able to prove this in this committee, but we have discussed it for a very long time. Are you doing anything with that? Are you gonna take that? What initiatives have already been taken to overcome this feeling? What has already happened in concrete terms? When it comes to supporting local police, we have seen that the latter have often remained hungry in this area. How did you do that? Certainly the non-priority files often do not receive the necessary support. However, we know that things often start to grow small, but very quickly. How do you catch that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u9	Commissioner-General, I would like to join all thanks because you have agreed to come today to share your vision with us. I agree with my colleagues: we have tried to make the best of all the points you have raised. But that's very good! I prefer concrete to large declarations of intent, which must be returned every three months and which do not materialise. It's an interesting way to work, but to react hot, it's more complicated. Having said that, I will still react on a few points. I will not repeat what my colleagues have asked for, but I would also like more details on the functioning of the joint centres (information and action). The question was asked last week, including by the President. I would also like clarification on sequencing and how it will be implemented. The same goes for Carrefour Bank and the vision you want to implement. I would also like to return to the relationship between the local police areas and the federal police. We know it has been a point of tension and attention for several years. I have passed on a lot of questions to Minister Jambon on this. As you know, it has been felt that many local police areas, for recent events, have had to provide support in the context of the terrorist threat. All this has been very difficult to experience in the field. I wanted to know your vision on this. It is known that the minister would like to change certain operating standards. I would like to know your vision of this operation and the mutual support between local police areas and the federal police. How can we optimise this operation, which is, today, particularly complicated? We know that the context is difficult, but it is likely to remain so. One last point, very important for Ecolo-Groen and on which we have placed great emphasis during the work of the committee of inquiry: recruitment. Your "one for one" vision seems interesting to us, but I have the same question as Mr Pivin as to what happens when it doesn't happen as planned. Is there a return to the federal police? The report of the Board of Inquiry strongly recommends that federal police officers be filled in. It is well known that this will not happen overnight. There are recruitments. Every quarter, we try to receive the Minister's updates and we get figures. Do you believe in your vision of recruitment that "one for one" is possible in the medium term? According to what timing? It is known that there will also be an important and necessary stage of training. Today, do you consider this possible and in what timing? That is what we care about. The last element I want to address is the establishment of a "diversity plan": to have a police in the image of its population. For us, it is important to have in the neighbourhoods (urban or more rural areas) a police in the image of its population. Initiatives have been announced. I would like to know in concrete terms how you intend to put this diversity in place within the police. This recommendation on diversity is strong in our view, as recruitment will enable it to be put in place and to ensure that the police are in line with the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u10	Mr President, I agree with the questions put. There is consensus on that. I like to listen to the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u11	There is consensus on the questions? That's a lot to say. We are now going to listen to the answers. After that, there's still time for a second round. Commissioner-General, we are listening with attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u12	Mr President, the first question was about the position of the Commissioner-General. I take note of the fact that it was said here last week that this is still a matter of attention and refinement between the two custody ministers. You should know that I myself put that in the context of my candidacy because I knew that the debate was going on and is going on. I wrote at the time that one could be Commissioner-General, that the empty lata could be, but that the empty ferenda would be more comfortable. The empty latta, if the texts are organized now, the Commissioner-General may be the Commissioner-General, but should I make suggestions myself, I would amend three provisions. The first amendment is Article 8a on the Management Committee, which discusses the consensus and notification of the dissending opinion. I was involved myself when the lyrics were written in a certain cenacle. I must say that I was not warm for that provision. One is responsible for a large company, for a security service. They say to the lady or the gentleman: you are the boss, but if you make a decision and someone disagrees with it, you should always report it. I don't think that's how it works in a FOD either. The chairman of a FOD negotiates in an adult manner on the Management Committee. If a decision is taken, this decision shall be implemented. Then the world is so organized that some things, if they are really important and relevant, end up with the respective ministers. Sometimes, at a certain point, at the initiative of the President or the Minister, there will be an adult debate on the point that has been made. As a legal rule, I find it strange. That is a first point. The second provision that I would supplement is not so much about positioning. I would also like to make it clear in Articles 101 and 102 that the DGJ should coordinate with the DGA and that the DGA should coordinate with the DGJ. It doesn't say that in so many words. It is often mentioned in the legal and regulatory texts that the DirCos must consult with the DirJuds and that coordination is necessary. On the other hand, it is rare to find this coordination obligation for central levels (DGJ/DGA). The third step that I would propose to amend - and that goes quite well in the direction taken by the recommendations - is an amendment to Article 105(4) of the Act. It would indicate that the Commissioner General may also issue orders to the DirJuds. He can give orders, teachings and guidelines to the DirCo. If one analyses the legal text, and that is no coincidence, one can see that the DirJuds act within the framework of the guidelines of the CG, but that the CG can order the triptych, give teachings and guidelines to the DirCos, because they are embedded with him, even that is not a reason, but it cannot do so in relation to the DirJuds. So, if you asked me, the empty feranda, that would be the three provisions I would amend. But again, the empty lata, I think and I'm going to try to prove that if nothing changes, by working on operating models, processes, procedures and leadership. In all the examples I have given, you can find accents. That was very specific as regards your first question, which was added by a number of committee members. Secondly, in relation to the JICs and JDCs, I consider it desirable not to allow it to enter into force simultaneously. In preparation for this committee meeting, I spent a few hours at FGP Brussels on Friday to look at all this in detail. I also went through their manuals to see how they work in Brussels when information comes in. They have hugely described processes and manuals there. Every staff member of FGP Brussels gets it and has to read it and knows that if he gets information, he has to do it, he has to do it, he has to do it, he has to do it, he has to do it where. The same work will have to be done for the JICs and JDCs. That methodology is pretty exhaustive. One can indeed be asked afterwards why one did not do so, why one did so, why one did not contact them, why one did not bring them there. The same methodology, which is good, should therefore also be released on the JICs and JDCs. The Director of the FGP Brussels has already issued the guidelines on this subject. I think it might be possible to work in two times, to leave the gap that Brussels now has, to implement it now, with full knowledge of the facts, also to define processes, and then later the other ones can keep up. You're going to get the note through the Attorney General. I can tell you that the National Security Council has requested that a timing be established for the five, even if it is differentiated. I can answer that about the JICs and the JDCs. Mr President, your third question was about the crossroads bank. In my twenty-two points, I have raised a number of specific issues, including the vision text integrated police on police information management, which I have said is an important and cultural one. It's a reference document. I understand from your analysis that you see the same thing at legislative level. I can tell you and repeat that the federal police are ready to contribute to the consultation structure which the two custody ministers have put forward on that item and which is due to start work in September. If the ministers ask for intellectual work, writing, thinking or craftsmanship in this area, then the federal police will cooperate fully.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u13	Allow me to interrupt. You know the recommendation of our committee. You know what model inspired us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u14	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u15	That can be implemented by you at federal police level, along with the two custody ministers. However, you know that matters are also subject to changes in privacy, for example. It would therefore be a good thing, as with the first answer you gave, that there would be a piece of legislation which would make it clear to the legislator what model he is opting for, the way that no one can say anything about anything else, or that it was something internal in which people had advanced so far that they no longer wanted to stop that process. I'm a little afraid that everyone will make sure that their own store runs smoothly, but it's about the higher one. It's not that hard, it's about a crossroads bank or flagging system. Do you feel anything for that? Or, if we ask you specifically, are you prepared to draft this legislation together with our committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u16	Mr President, if the committee so requests, we are, of course, open to that. It is in line with some of the specific points I have raised. Reference documents and reference laws are useful. Mrs Onkelinx, you asked me to clarify point 4, which is a little symbolic. I said that the steps towards the judicial authorities would be binominal. I will invest as much in the DGJ aspects as in the DGA, DGR or CGI aspects. Because of the responsibilities entrusted to me by the laws and regulations, I believe I must respond to the appeal and I will work closely with the DGJ. The first contacts were made, in particular with the College of Attorneys General on the major priority issues in which I certainly intend to invest. As far as point 17 is concerned, it must be noted that all the DirJuds have made their draft mission letters, which have been sent to the hierarchy, but which have never validated them. However, mission letters exist and they work with respect. In order to do well, these mission letters, which are useful and serve as guidance, evaluation and support, should still be validated. It will be done in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u17	Were there any specific problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u18	I simply note that in the DGJ pillar, mission letters are not validated. This is a validation of the content and compliance with other mission letters of the institution. I think this work needs to be done as quickly as possible. With respect to staffing, the minister said that he would send you a document with a table. It's kind of complicated. If you take the TO3 reference, the percentage is easily fixed. But there is much more than the TO3. In the meantime, there is all the capacity that has been recruited on the basis of the interdepartmental provision, part of which must be counted in TO and part of which is non-TO. In addition, there are credits from the Road Safety Fund, which are variable appropriations. There are also appropriations obtained for the additional checks to be carried out as a result of the amendments to the Schengen rules. There's also the DAB we're trying to set up. Depending on the reference model taken into account, the figures differ. If you do the calculation by including the DAB, the new direction of security that has just begun the recruitment of 1,600 people, this distorts the calculation. I think the minister will give you a clear and understandable picture, so that the percentages are clear. I will also make my contribution to this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u19	You're careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u20	Yeah, because it's pretty complicated. With regard to the FAST, I hope that the government will make the Royal Order on Article 102, which will formalize the rationale for the FAST at the central service level. As far as staffing is concerned, since I am dealing with an anti-terrorism, anti-radicalism and anti-extremism commission, know that if you compare the number of pillars (DGJ, DGA, CGI, DGR), the DGJ has the least deficit. This comes from a joint decision of the two ministers who said that the threshold of the DGJ could not fall below a standard set on the date of... I no longer remember the date but it is an agreement between the two ministers. I would like to point out that the JB deficit is the lowest of all federal police entities. The question that pleases me most is one of diversity. I don't know if you or your collaborators had the opportunity to see my Maiden speech to which I gave a wide publicity without any censorship. It's a risk, but that's how I did it. I drew attention to two values: the first value is that of the quality of the work for which I made it clear that a margin of error was acceptable; the second value that I highlighted is that of respect for others, for which I made it clear that there was no room for error. I think I have sent a clear message about this. As far as diversity is concerned, the minister has already told you that training initiatives have been taken: 7,000 police officers have already come to the Dossin barracks. To those who have asked the question of diversity, I believe that we have a golden opportunity and a lever for the future to be exploited overtly: that of the new direction of the DAB, that is to say security. We recruit people who do not have a degree and this is the way and the way to explore for greater diversity in the ranks. I told you I was on the field last Wednesday, where I spent five hours. I waited half an hour because the DAB people weren't coming. They finally arrived. I've been able to see all the aspiring students currently in training. They made an excellent impression on me. These are people recruited without a diploma and, being in the field, I asked them why they had applied and what their intentions were. I can tell you that 90% of people confirmed to me that their goal was to start with the DAB as an agent but that their goal was to become an inspector. It is therefore important to ensure that this BAD file is a complete success and that diversity is a recruitment criterion in the selection channels. It is the most important lever for the future. I'll pay my attention to it. Then, know that the Dossin barracks – which I will visit in September with a class of officer seekers – provide training in "polarization", which some officers have already followed. We're going to pass it on to the police. It is also a means of discouraging racism in different forums. As such, we are studying with Unia the need for and the possibility of refining existing training. Furthermore, as announced, we will completely modify the recruitment procedures. To this end, we will review the content of the selection tests, particularly in terms of neutrality. These are the complementary aspects in terms of diversity. Many of you have asked me about the mobility rules that will result from this new recruitment system. Perhaps this is a political decision, but when we began to consider such a reform, no one mentioned any intention to change the funding rules. Even if a direct link is established between such a candidate and such a zone, this lady will follow her training. I assume that it will continue to take place at the expense of the State. I haven't heard from anyone else. That is why I believe that this provision will be preserved. To do this, I believe it is necessary to set a deadline for the candidate to remain in the area. The time limits for mobility must be remembered. I believe that it is in everyone's interest, not only that there is this direct link "one on one", but that once the person arrives in place, that that person remains there for some time. That is much longer than the 1 year or 2 years that are now allowed by many rules. I think we should link the two. You may already know that people are working on permanent mobility. Now one works with 3 or 4 cycles per year. This will be changed. There will be permanent mobility. With respect to the first assignment, I believe that there is a need to link up with an employer and that there must be a time frame that gives enough stability to the operation of the police services. Mr Pivin, I come to the relationship between central DGJ and deconcentrated DGJ. The committee asked for clarification. Of the 22 points I have listed, some give an answer to your question. I do not know whether it will be an ALS, a directive or a DG note. Perhaps the way to baptize the instrument is important. One thing is sure and certain: by the end of the month, this clarification will be formalized and sent. It will provide a response to the Commission's recommendation. As far as relations with local police areas are concerned, I will wait for the development of optimisation, if you will. Indeed, this aspect often comes back to this issue. You know that the Standing Committee has also already tabled its report and its analysis of the success, failure or half-success of this optimisation. I ask you for a few more months of patience. The Federal Police Council already has two agendas, in September and October. Following the schedule, the Federal Police Council will have its report for December 2018. These aspects could be addressed and clarified at that time. I'm coming to ASTRID. It is by chance that I was five hours in the field, at the post in the very NATO compound, where all the services and the Americans were. It is true that a small part of the federal police service had, for a short time, a communication problem. But ASTRID was on the spot, and the time to ask the question and get the answer to these few problems, this one was solved. It is true that during major events and large-scale demonstrations, communication problems sometimes occur, to the left and to the right. Each time we give feedback to ASTRID, who was still on site and well equipped. Other services did not complain about ASTRID services or radio communications. I think I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u21	Concerning the purchase of materials... [[Without microphone]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u22	Yes, an audit was conducted by KPMG. By the end of October, improvements will be implemented. This means reshaping the process a little and regrouping certain services so that follow-up is better and the time to manage a file is shortened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u23	Thank you for the answers. Commissioner-General, in a second round of questions I have one more concern. I'll come back to it again. It's become my stick horse. A common thread throughout the committee's work was, of course, the search for responsibilities. However, the phenomenon that often came back was the formation of shots and the formation of islands, as I have sometimes called it. Everyone in his area does a good job, but it is our firm belief that crucial information is sometimes not shared. That is why I attach great importance to the crossroads bank but also to the importance of joint information and joint decision. You state that Brussels has a head start. That is because of circumstances. However, I find it difficult to imagine that we would not work according to the same methodology in five different areas. I never liked the word "reference." There are specializations but they can also be shared. A method has even been developed for this purpose. If something exceeds the cap of a given circumscription, federally scaled up may be possible. The presence of state security around the table is also crucial. The appetizer may not be so big as to take immediate steps in this area. However, when it comes to the sharing of information and the taking of decisions together, I can hardly imagine that this is done in one place and that in four other areas there is a different methodology. You are not obliged to go back to that point. I know it's a difficulty and it's a delicate discussion. Nevertheless, the point seems crucial to me to shape what the committee has intended. Are other colleagues asking for a second round? You will be able to take the plane in time, Commissioner General. I thank you for your presence in this committee. I would also like to thank you for both the quality of your statement and the answers you have given. I wish you a good flight both by plane and by police.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-16-54-commissie-ic950x.u24	Thank you.
