ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u1	Joined Questions Nos 25258 and 25263 by Mrs Van Cauter. Van Hecke, No 25277 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and No 25310 by Mrs Lambrecht, as well as questions No 25275 and No 25281 by Mrs Lambrecht, are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u2	Mr President, Minister, this question was originally put in writing, but it was not answered in good time. That is why I am obliged to put them orally. My next two questions were answered this morning, which allowed them to be removed from the agenda. The number of hit-and-run accidents is still on the elevator. In recent months, especially in winter, we have seen examples of this on a regular basis. That was the reason for my question. Each year there are more than 4 000 injuries involving the perpetrator fleeing. You worked together with the Minister of Mobility on a bill that will deal more closely with refugee crimes. In my written question, I referred to the fact that you were going to submit that draft to Parliament in the spring, but it has now been approved. You can see how old my question is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u3	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u4	Maybe that's your tactic, waiting for answers until the law is passed. I still have questions to which I have not received any answers. First of all, how often was a forfeiture pronounced in the event of traffic offences in 2015, 2016 and 2017? What crimes were involved? I'd like to get numbers by arrondissement. That is why I asked this question in writing, because there is a lot of figures involved. Secondly, how many hit-and-runs were there in 2015, 2016 and 2017? How many of these with physical damage? Do we know how often this happened with a leasing car? Thirdly, what conclusion do you draw from the figures? My fourth question, which is, of course, when you would submit the draft law to Parliament, lapses. When submitting the question, this information was still relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u5	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, I agree with you that a hit-and-run must be severely punished and prevented. By committing a hit-and-run, one wants to avoid his responsibility for an accident, and often cover up other crimes, such as drunkenness and driving without a driver's license or insurance. In addition, in the event of injuries, the victims are neglected to assist them and to inform the emergency services. So I have little understanding of these facts. You yourself pointed out that, through the law of 6 March 2018 on improving road safety, I, together with Mr Bellot, took the initiative to punish the hit-and-run more severely. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that I cannot give you figures on the number of confiscations in the case of road offences. I'm truly sorry about that. There is still a way to go in order to standardise the decisions of the police courts. For the other figures, I would like to refer to Mr Bellot's answer to your question of 11 January 2018. If I may, outside the report, I have a copy of that for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Perhaps I asked the question to the two ministers because I know that sometimes it is between the two of you, and also to avoid a loss of time by having to ask one minister first and then another. It is effectively problematic that this figure material is not there. We have often found that the statistics in general are dramatic. If one wants to see how often a forfeiture is pronounced and executed, it can be relevant to our policy work. However, we do not know whether this is about ten, a hundred or a thousand per year. It is a pity that we do not have a view on this. I hope, therefore, that you, perhaps together with the Minister for Mobility, will be able to work on better statistics of convictions, in particular on road offences, so that we can have a better idea of what penalties are being imposed for which crimes. This can certainly help Parliament on a policy level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u7	Questions Nos 25302 and 25303 of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Van Hecke is removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u8	Minister, I asked you two months ago about the difficulties encountered by the organizers of historical reconstructions who want to parade foreign tanks equipped with old cannons dating back to the Second World War. In order to allow the presence of these tanks, the organizers must be able to justify their demilitarisation by issuing a certificate. However, as far as weapons of the Second World War are concerned, the current regulations do not permit the recognition of the neutralization of military equipment carried out in a foreign country. Given the urgency of the situation, you told me that your services were examining the possibilities of extending the control procedures and finding a solution quite quickly. Minister, in view of the expectations of the organizers, what is the status of the discussions with the Regions, which are competent for arms import and export licences? Is a solution imminent? How do you respond to the organizers who are eager to allow the presence of foreign tanks dating from the Second World War on Belgian soil?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u9	Mr. Thiébaut, to discuss this issue, meetings have been held between my strategic unit, the Federal Arms Service of my administration and some of the main organizers of the historical reconstructions of the Second World War. A draft royal decree has been drafted and is currently being discussed with the firearms test bench and the relevant defence services. It will then be discussed with the Regions, which are responsible for importing. I cannot give you more information at this stage but a concrete solution is being sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u10	Minister, I am half reassured by your answer. It seems that a solution is being finalized, but you don't give me a timing. As you know, there are many demonstrations in this year of commemoration of the centenary of the end of the First World War. There's really an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u11	Question No 25369 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u12	Mr President, Minister, on 24 April 2018, attention will be drawn worldwide to the issue of parental alienation and exclusion. Several parents who are in this situation wrote you an open letter on that day. Due to the non-compliance with rights of access and the conscious or unconscious manipulation, thousands of children lose contact with one of the parents after a divorce. Sometimes it is right that a child does not want to see one of the parents, for example after family violence. But often children don't want to see a parent anymore, and that's for no good reason. The right of children to maintain contact with both parents is undermined. The best interests of the child shall not be served. The legislator already provides for a number of instruments to prevent or limit this. I am thinking, for example, of a penalty payment or a correctional sentence. However, this does not achieve the desired goal, namely the parent's contact with the child. The Flemish Forum on Child Abuse has the task of providing policy advice in the fight against divorces, in particular against parental deprivation and alienation. A family court working group was also set up to deal with the problem of parental alienation. They are looking for a concrete approach, such as measures to be taken, both in the civil justice, protection and correctional field. I have the following questions. What is the current state of play regarding, on the one hand, the family courts working group and, on the other hand, the VFK's policy advice? In addition to the COL 4/2006, what amendments or instruments do you intend to make to meet the demand of rejected parents, as well as to allow judges to apply existing measures? Finally, how do you see the cooperation with the Communities and the police to ensure that implementation is actually carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u13	Mrs Uyttersprot, I have indeed been able to take note of the open letter to which you refer in your question. The problem is well known to me and I am very aware of its seriousness and sensitivity. I can tell you that the issue was discussed extensively with the field and experts in the family courts working group on 8 May 2017 and on 21 November 2017. I refer to the minutes of those meetings, which I have now delivered to the committee, as announced in the discussion of my policy paper. The meetings have made the subject matter and the approach discussable on the ground. In the meantime, training is offered and expertise developed. As I already replied to your question of 26 April 2017, the recommendations of the Flemish Forum on Child Abuse, which belong to the domain of Justice, were taken seriously. For example, mediation has been used, a comparative study has been carried out on hearing minors in other countries and so on. The problem of parental deprivation is particularly complex and delicate. Firstly, it is important to gain more insight into it and I support any scientific research in that sense. My policy cell has also already done a survey of the public prosecutors about the application of COL 4/2006. The response rate was rather low, but the answers showed that there is a demand for a manual with criteria that allows to identify the phenomenon. In addition, there is a demand for training, both in terms of the phenomenon and the appropriate actions that can be taken. I will ask the College of Attorneys General to evaluate the application of the COL on this point. I am also open to any proposals to improve legislation, if necessary. The Flemish Forum on Child Abuse, which is responsible for the overall coordination of the implementation of the policy recommendations to which you refer, has not met since 13 May 2016. Justice no longer has the Presidency of the Forum, but I will nevertheless work with the other actors involved to see how cooperation with the Communities and the police can be further improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u14	Mr Minister, those who do not comply with rights of access may be prosecuted and sentenced by the courts, both in criminal and civil matters, but that is the theory. In practice, such a judgment is often not enforced. A parent may have a verdict in hand, but he doesn't get to see or see the children. However, the prevention of a given or agreed right of access is prohibited by law, but in practice it is too often violated. We could also take legislative initiatives. You said it yourself. The Flemish Forum on Child Abuse gave a number of policy advices in 2016, but the forum has unfortunately not met since. This really is a lost opportunity, both in terms of the work done and in terms of the transposition of policy advice into legislation. I think that we should encourage the people who are already victims of parental alienation and parental deprivation. We must continue to support them and look at the possibilities of not putting a rejected parent back in the victim's role.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u15	Mr President, Minister, undisputed financial debts between companies can now also, in addition to legal proceedings, be recovered by means of a bailiff. You indicated earlier that you would evaluate the b2b concept and possibly extend it to b2c, which is business-to-consumer, with, of course, additional protection for the weaker individuals. Has the b2b concept been evaluated yet? If so, what are the results? If not, is an evaluation planned soon? What is the state of play regarding the extension of b2b to b2c? Will you also discuss this with your colleague Minister Peeters, responsible for Consumers? What measures do you intend to take to protect weak consumers in the event of enlargement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, I hope that in the summer we will be able to complete the evaluation and make the necessary adjustments. As indicated in the answers to previous questions on this subject, further enlargement will depend on this evaluation, which will of course be carried out in consultation with Minister Peeters. Of course, the answer to your third question depends on the conclusions of the evaluation. I would like to point out that we are currently in the process of modernising the collective debt regime procedure. In addition, we are studying the cost structure of the collection procedure of a bailiff and the goods, whether or not they can be confiscated, in cooperation with Mr Peeters. In this way, we try to support the weak consumer as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u17	Minister, I note that you want to complete the evaluation of the B2B in the summer and that the B2C story will depend on its results. We will be happy to work with you in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u18	Question No 25340 by Mrs Özen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u19	Mr President, Minister, during your recent visit to Morocco, you concluded an agreement setting out the obligation to pay maintenance money. We believe that this is a very good thing. If one of the divorced parents has been sentenced by a Belgian court to pay maintenance money but is now staying in Morocco, the parent will now be obliged to pay maintenance money to relatives who have remained in Belgium. I have the following questions. Firstly, how many people currently residing in Morocco have been sentenced to pay maintenance money in this country? Secondly, how many children, ex-partners or parents have to pay maintenance money? Thirdly, how will Belgium and Morocco ensure that payment is effective? What procedure will be followed? Fourthly, which countries have already reached a similar agreement? Fifthly, are there any countries with which you are still negotiating to conclude such an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, as regards your first two questions, I do not have any information on the number of decisions made in Morocco on maintenance obligations. As regards your third question, I would point out that the application of the agreements and protocols concluded should improve the management of requests for recognition or enforcement of decisions, settlements and authentic instruments relating to maintenance claims. For example, the reasons for refusing recognition and enforcement are clearly defined on a common basis for the two States. The bilateral agreement also lists the documents to be submitted under the recognition and enforcement procedure. Finally, the agreement also contains provisions facilitating judicial assistance and abolishing legalisation. These provisions will undoubtedly speed up the management of the files and will contribute to improved cooperation, already established between Belgium and Morocco through the New York Convention of 20 June 1956 on the recovery abroad of benefits for maintenance. The problem linked to the lack of a satisfactory solution, established in the framework of the dossiers managed by the central authorities of Belgium and Morocco, should be addressed. The improvement of cooperation between our two countries within the framework of the New York Convention should allow mutual trust to be established which has so far been lacking, given the small number of dossiers currently under discussion by the Belgian central authority with Morocco. As far as your fourth and fifth questions are concerned, a similar agreement with other states is not envisaged, as at global level states are encouraged to ratify the Hague Convention. Moreover, at European Union level, Council Regulation 4/2009 of 18 December 2008 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in the field of maintenance obligations has been applicable since June 2011.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u21	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u22	Minister, since 1 April 2017, the Central Register Solvency has entered into force. In this case, bankruptcy files are electronically charged, built up and stored. This saves work and time for the curators and courts, on the one hand, and reduces costs, on the other. Meanwhile, the Central Register Solvency is in use for 1 year and I have some questions as a result. Firstly, how is the use of the central register experienced by users? Secondly, during the discussions, have there been any signs of childhood diseases or problems and, if so, which ones? Thirdly, has the OVB received comments or complaints on the application of the Central Register, for which certain adjustments should be made? Fourthly, is there already a difference in workload measurement as well as costs? These are two of the objectives of the Central Register.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u23	Mrs Uyttersprot, except for a few reports of the system's childhood diseases, which, as far as I am aware, are dealt with accurately each time, I only get positive and enthusiastic feedback. A steering committee with the user groups will follow up closely. The main questions are the development of new functionalities and digital connections with other actors. Moreover, the functionalities have been greatly extended over the past year, so that RegSol fully integrates the procedures of the new insolvency law, which entered into force on the same date, as from 1 May of this year. This transition also went without much difficulty. At the end of June, RegSol's manager will provide me with a working report, which will allow me to provide more useful information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u25	Chairperson: Goedele Uyttersprot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u26	Minister, it has recently come back to us that a computer bug in the new software for collecting fines for driving offences had, since March, caused the loss of many documents. Indeed, many people wishing to pay online have received a message of error after completing the computerised forms, so the collection of amounts due has been made impossible. The loss of profits would have already exceeded EUR 1 million. Minister, can you take stock of this case? Do you confirm that a computer problem has effectively prevented computerised collection of certain fine payments? If so, how long has this problem emerged? Has it already been settled? If so, how long? What was the exact nature of it? Should measures be taken to avoid this type of problem in the future? What was the number of files that were problematic? What is the total loss of profits?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u27	Mr Flahaux, on 28 March, together with my colleagues Jambon and Bellot, I launched the second phase of the important Crossborder project. From the outset, we were all aware that every large-scale computer project can experience youth diseases and that it needs to be addressed, if necessary. You are referring to a computer bug on the website of driving fines, which no longer allowed offenders to pay for it. Since the beginning of the Crossborder project, a systematic quality control of its implementation has been carried out by the integrated project group. It consists of collaborators from different administrations and suppliers and is responsible for monitoring the quality of output processes carefully. It works daily to deal with possible computer problems or difficulties that may arise in the process. All detected problems are dealt with systematically and as quickly as possible. This project group informed me not to be aware of the problem you are raising. The website finesroutes.be provides the possibility to pay with Visa, MasterCard and Maestro. The letter received by the citizen also includes a QR code, which facilitates the payment of the fine by the offender through its mobile banking application. Even if the citizen is faced with payment problems on the website, he or she can still pay his or her fine by executing a regular transfer. Therefore, if the website presents a computer problem, the other payment possibilities allow the citizen to easily liquidate his/her fine and assures us not to charge loss of income.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-commissie-ic891x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have no comment to add and therefore take note with satisfaction of what you have told me.
