ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we were informed by the government that it wanted to present its budget agreement, the Summer Agreement bis, to Parliament. We have, of course, dealt with this. As far as the way in which work is concerned, I suggest that the Prime Minister should first give an explanation. I had the text of the press conference circulated, although only in Dutch because I did not find it on the website. This is the text of the press conference. I don't know if there's an official document. Following the presentation by the Prime Minister, members may formulate their comments and questions. We still have to look at whether we do this chapter by chapter or overall. Then the government's replies to Parliament's comments will come. Finally, after the government's replies, there must of course be a possibility that the opposition, I suspect, replicates what the government has responded to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u2	Mr. Chair, I take note of the opportunity to respond to the government's responses. Of which act! I thank you for that, because we remember that this has not always been the case. Furthermore, Mr President, if I understood the statements made yesterday at the press conference, we were talking about a budget table, a table that can be consulted today in the daily newspaper De Tijd. I'd like to make sure we have it. We were given the slides presented yesterday at this press conference – the rest visible on the Prime Minister's website, from yesterday afternoon. Could we have that so that we can understand how the government manages to find the 2.6 billion euros of budgetary effort to be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u3	I would like to thank you for convening the committee, Mr President. It is also the ideal weather for it. We are all very much looking forward to discussing the budget today, but in order to be able to talk about the budget, it is of course important to have the budgetary figures. The presentation of the press conference yesterday had already ended up in our mailbox. Thanks for the copy, but that presentation is about just about everything, except the budget. It would therefore be interesting to have the budget table as well. That can only make the discussion more interesting. If I am not mistaken, Vice Prime Minister Jambon announced this yesterday in the studio of Terruj. I didn't quite follow the broadcast, but I thought I heard that yesterday during that cozy tea party of the three vice-premiers at the television studio. So I'd like to have that table. That would make it a little easier and more interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u4	Mr President, I am glad that my colleague, Mr Calvo, is so well-witted by the sunshine that seems, but this is the third time in a row that the government has decided to pass its decisions to the press first and then to come to the Chamber. That's a decision she's allowed to make, but I wouldn't do that in that situation. Mr President, you said that you yourself do not know whether or not the document distributed here is an official document. If Parliament is to be respected at least a little bit, the budget tables will be distributed today and we can have a serious debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u5	Mr Prime Minister, I have indeed seen that table published in a newspaper. Parliament has the right to know how to get to the 2.5 billion. Did you bring that table?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u6	Mr President, first of all, we organised a press conference yesterday. The documents are available in French and Dutch. They concern the substantive points, in particular the job deal, but also the other points on which we have decided. Secondly, Mrs Kitir, with great respect for Parliament, we told the press yesterday that more information on budgetary data would be given in committee today. That is the role and task of Minister Wilmès. After the start of the substantive debate, she will share more information with you. The budgetary summary document is therefore indeed available to the Chamber. That document may be distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u7	Can we get that table, Madam Secretary? Or can you briefly summarize what it says? I want to avoid procedural debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u8	Mr President, there is no need for a procedural debate. I believe that the tables have been requested to be filed with the services; I am verifying that this has been done and, in my opinion, it is a matter of copies and distribution. There is therefore no problem in this respect, and that is clear as regards Parliament's primacy over the rest: as the Prime Minister said, we did not distribute the tables yesterday to the press, it is to you that we distribute them in the first place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u9	Yes, but the secretariat did not receive the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u10	The bailiffs are currently making photocopies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u11	Mr. Laaouej, you'll have the paintings in a few minutes. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Monday evening the government agreed on a package of complementary structural reforms in relation to the budgetary perspectives for which decisions were taken and arbitrations for the initial fiscal year 2019. The agreement contains six main points: 1. a deal for employment; 2. an agreement on the 2019 budget lines; 3. an agreement to make progress in reviving strategic investments; 4. the valuation of the Belfius assets; 5. a solution for the compensation of ARCO co-operators; 6. the possible opening of the Belgian market for a fourth telecom operator. I will briefly outline the contours of these points. My colleagues will then have the opportunity to give more substance and more information on the subject. The first important point is the job deal. Since the beginning of the legislature, three and a half years ago, 190 000 jobs have been created, representing a net job creation of 55 000 jobs per year, in particular by the private sector. We are doing 2.5 times better than the estimate of the Federal Planning Office in its publication 1419, namely the creation of 21 000 jobs per year. According to the prospects 2017-2022 of the Federal Planning Office, the net job creation of 46 000 jobs per year should continue by 2022. Despite this very positive balance, we are faced with a paradox. After all, we have found that there are more and more bottlenecks in our labour market. According to the prospects of official European statistics, our country would face a situation of almost 135 000 jobs available but not occupied because of the lack of skills and training of people. At the same time, despite the progress made in reducing unemployment and increasing jobs created, the unemployment rate is still too high and the rate of activity is still insufficient. We are convinced that this is a brake on continuing the positive effects in terms of growth, and a brake on economic dynamism. That is why, three months ago, on behalf of the government, I called for the general mobilization of this deal for employment and to meet this concern for the modernization of our labour market. In the first instance, this must be done with the Länder. After the sixth state reform, we all know that the Länder have a lot of levers in this area. The social partners must also be involved. In order to achieve a positive and constructive story with strong choices and decisions, a few meetings with the social partners took place, together with the Minister of Work. In the past, choices were made that led to the decisions of two days ago. What is the philosophy and what are the key points of this 'jobs deal', the measures of which will be presented in more detail in a few moments? The first key point is to make every effort, through a package of 28 coherent measures, to give more capacity to training. It is a matter of reaching out to job seekers, to give them more the ability to quickly take a path that increases the chances of re-entering the labour market and being re-employed. This general philosophy in which we are located is truly positive, constructive, oriented towards this dimension. The second key point is coherence and complementarity with regional initiatives. Let me give you an example. As far as taxation is concerned, we have found that the Länder have either taken initiatives or intend to take initiatives on specific premiums for the completion of the bottlenecks professions, linked to training. This dimension is taken into account, for example, by means of flat-rate tax immunization measures for the premiums to be granted in the context of these prospects. Another idea is the right to outplacement. This right is enshrined – taking into account the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises – with the capacity for alternatives that take into account the means of sectoral funds, which can be more mobilised to support efforts in this context. Another important and powerful decision we took in principle concerns the reform of our unemployment system. This decision was clear following the note from the Group of Ten employers and employees, in which we were asked to reform our unemployment system in order to take greater account of the problem of the problem of the disadvantaged professions. What are the strong principles on the subject? I take this opportunity to twist the neck to a few first ducks, probably inspired by bad information or incomplete information. I cannot imagine that there would be bad faith on the subject! The idea is to increase the allowance for the jobseeker in the first few months. The person who loses his job would see an increase in his allowance in the first few months. Then the degression will be more pronounced. The modalities will have to be defined by royal decree (intensity, rhythm, target categories). We also want to take better account of the training dimension within the unemployment system, in order to direct it towards jobs in need. The third period will be at the same level as today. There is therefore no decrease. The big difference with past unemployment reforms is that there are no savings in the unemployment insurance budget. Indeed, the aim is to increase the rate of activity and to have a budgetary gain by the fact that more people are being put back to work. This will have a positive macroeconomic effect on our budget. It is a very clear choice that is made. We are convinced that this reform is very important. This means that the Minister of Work has been given a mandate to submit proposals to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks, which will allow for further discussion and decisions to be taken. I now come to a few points concerning the budget. We are in a situation where the choice of our budget proposals will allow us to arrive, in 2019, at a situation where the deficit has been divided almost by four into one legislature. To be precise, the deficit has already been divided by three and it will be divided by 3.7. In this respect, there is a big difference from the past. For four years, we have been doing a lot of repairing and reducing our debt. The main difference, however, is that the reorganisation is accompanied by a fundamental reduction in pressure and parafiscal pressure on labour through the tax shift. In this budgetary exercise, the tax shift is fully implemented. This not only means that taxes were not increased, they were even reduced again by EUR 1.5 billion. This is reflected in more purchasing power for those who work and want to work, as well as more support for those who create jobs. There is 1.5 billion for the tax shift, of which 500 million for the decrease in charges. There is a specific envelope for the construction sector, because this is a particular issue, as you know. It is also a very important point because it leads us – let us be precise – in four years to increase the low wages by a net remuneration of 146 euros. Those who explain that one would attack the most fragile, the most precarious, tell balivers, send wet firecrackers! Never before has a government, in such a short period of time, supported purchasing power so much, especially that of the lows and the wage-earners. For low wages, it is more than a thirteenth month, granted after four years. We give back purchasing power, we give back to the worker the ability to be in a position to manage his own life. We are doing this by making a clean-up since the deficit is divided by 3.7 in the budgetary outlook that will be presented. The next important point is the investment pact. I will not go into this in detail, although it is an important element in our budgetary exercise. A first important list of investments, a call at European level on flexibility and investment in line with what we have been defending for a long time, namely: digitisation, addressing the issue of climate change and support for mobility. At the request of the Group of Ten, a question repeated last week during the consultations with Minister Peeters and the social partners, a mobility package was adopted in principle. I come to a supplementary point, namely the question of Belfius and the launch of this IPO. The decision-in-principle is taken. We mandate a start to the process so that proposals can be made to the government on the subject. The aim is to make it possible to exchange around 30%. The exact percentage can be defined at a later stage. The purpose of the operation is very simple. It is about supporting debt relief and trying to get below the 100% of GDP mark. Debt stood at 108 per cent of GDP, and since the financial crisis, it had continued to grow in comparison with GDP. We have put an end to this growth of the debt and are engaged in a decline, which we would like to intensify with the realization of some of the assets of Belfius. This will also allow us to contribute to the financing of the structural investment pact. We will have to decide at a later stage what part of the debt relief is going to be and what part of it will be able to stimulate the investment pact. As regards the Investment Pact, it is planned that the Strategic Committee will make a report public in the course of September. The last week was devoted to the latest consultations and various groups in Parliament were given the opportunity to meet with the people of the strategic committee. In connection with this, we also keep the word that had been expressed at the time of the formation of the government, and we do so in the continuity of previous governments. Indeed, the latter had made commitments with regard to the compensation of ARCO's cooperants. On several occasions, I have expressed this ambition to respect the words given and which should lead us to use this Belfius OPI, now launched in the perspective that it will materialize in order to free up the capacities that will allow us to go towards this compensation. To be clear, I also indicated that it was clear that we would continue the dialogue with the European Commission on the subject. However, we consider that the proposal on the table does not mean that it is necessary to obtain a formal agreement from the European Commission, since it is "natural persons" and not "legal persons" who are involved in the mechanics proposed in this decision. Finally, we are convinced that digitisation in Europe and Belgium is crucial. We consider telecom prices to be an important element in terms of the purchasing power of our people and the economic attractiveness of our country. That is why we have provided for the possibility of a fourth operator on the market, based on a report from the BIPT and discussions with the chairman of the BIPT. In this way, we want to see a reduction in telecom prices. This is important, not only for our citizens, but also if we compare our prices with those in other European countries. It's our ambition to go to a level playing field. With a fourth operator, alongside the other players who are already on the market, we want to ensure that. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the broad lines of this agreement. I conclude very soberly: once again, we have demonstrated our ability to decide, to decide, in full coherence with the fundamentals of this government. We want our economy to be stronger, more robust and, above all, at the service of the most fragile, for those in need of support. There is no social security or protection with just slogans and caricatures. This requires more jobs and more investment. We are convinced that our economy is stronger today than it was four years ago. This package of structural measures and these decisions can strengthen our economy and social security in 2019 and in the next few years. That is our objective and we are convinced that we are on the right track. We're completely lucid. We know that there are obstacles on the way, difficulties, constraints. We know that between now and the next few months there will still be regulatory implementation work, through legislation, by-laws, etc. We will continue to carry out this work with great determination so that, as I committed myself on behalf of the government, every day – between today and the end of the legislature – will be useful to make the country stronger and more stable economically and socially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u13	The copies of the tables to be made in the Forum building due to technical problems will be available within a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u14	Mr President, I propose, if it can help, that the Minister of Employment present the elements of the 'jobs deal', so we have time to receive the copies in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u15	Mr President, I am also making a suggestion. Shouldn't we start with ARCO-Belfius, waiting for the budget tables?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u16	We will certainly deal with this later, but let us first give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister. I would like the statement to be limited to ten minutes, not more. I realize that 28 measures have been taken. But, Minister, stick to the essentials. You can do that, too. Finally, tables are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u17	So I will try to be brief, Mr President, even though I intended to respond in my speech to the reactions of the colleagues I had read in the press. I will divide my presentation on the job deal into three parts. Firstly, I am talking about the way in which we arrive at the amounts proposed. Secondly, I will explain some of the 28 measures and, thirdly, I will discuss the degressivity. I have three rooms where I want to give you additional information. As regards the first part, we assume that, as the Prime Minister said, there are 134 570 vacant posts at the moment and that the measures taken will fill 12 500 of them. For those who can calculate quickly, that is 9.28 % of 134 570. I understand that some people think that this is a bit exaggerated and unrealistic. I firmly deny that. I'm declaring myself. In 2016, we created 57 700 jobs. Not we say that, but the Planning Bureau and the National Bank. In 2017, there were 65 300. Our calculations come first from the Monitoring Committee, where 46 600 additional jobs are included in the economic budget. The 12 500 jobs will be added, so we will achieve 59 100 jobs in 2019. That's less than 65,000 jobs in 2017 and less than the 57 700 jobs in 2016. According to the June 2018 employment barometer, which I can present to you today in response to my question, additional 63 500 units were employed in June 2017 versus June 2018. That is again a confirmation of the upward trend. The figure is equal for men and women. It is true that the employment of workers aged 50-64 is doing well: we note an increase of 3%. For the 40-49 age group, there is an increase of 0.4%. For the 25 to 39 age group, employment increased by 1.5 %. In particular, Brussels is doing well at 3.1 %, against Flanders at 1.3 % and Wallonia at 1.3 %. I would just like to say that when we say that we want to create 59 100 jobs in 2019, we are using a realistic figure based on the figures we have achieved so far. After all, according to the latest employment barometer, which the RSZ will announce today, 63 500 jobs were created from June 2017 to June 2018. If 12 500 jobs are achieved, how will we get an amount of 505 375 912.92 euros? I want to show that this figure wasn't just launched. It was accurately calculated on the basis of 12 500 additional jobs or 9.28 % of the 134 000 vacant vacancies, for which a median gross wage of EUR 3 300 per month was used. In doing so, of course, the macroeconomic payback effects and the direct effects will be taken into account. We have been so correct not to take into account the indirect effects, such as the additional social security contributions, the higher purchasing power and all kinds of additional tax revenues. This resulted in the carefully calculated amount of 505.4 million, which means less expenditure for the RVA as well as more revenue through RSZ and taxation, which we have broken down completely. The amount is realistic, on the basis of the elements which we have looked at and which I have just explained. Secondly, I would like to stress that the 28 measures were carefully chosen and speak out completely against them as if there were loose ends in this area. For each of these 28 measures there is now or soon a KB available. The letters are ready to be sent. We will bring a law on the job deal to Parliament as soon as possible. Of these 28 measures, some are almost ready. The KBs and draft laws are ready. In short, I deny that the measures will not be implemented in the next few weeks and months. Mr President, I have to keep an eye on my ten-minute speaking time. We took 28 steps. I want to point out here that they are all listed and that royal decrees are already ready. Other initiatives have also been taken to implement the agreed measures as soon as possible. I'll highlight some of them. Firstly, we will provide for a flat-rate exemption for new premiums granted by the Regions to jobseekers who successfully complete training in a bottleneck profession, translated into a return to the labour market. Since it is a tax measure, my colleague Johan Van Overtveldt will implement it as soon as possible. Secondly, we offer companies the possibility, through an RB, of organising positive actions to certain target groups. This means, in concrete terms, the organisation of training programmes for women to promote the transfer to management positions, the maintenance of traineeships for people with disabilities, the award of scholarships to groups of opportunities and the development of mentor projects for jobseekers from specific groups of opportunities. The KB is ready and we will be able to decide on this very quickly. We will devote the social maribel fund's reserves even more than before to those who want to work in the care sector. For this purpose, an instruction has been drawn up for the 330 Joint Committee, which will further concreteise this. With regard to SWT, I stress that we will have the minimum age of 59 years in 2019 and 60 years in 2020, which were already registered in the KB. The phrase that says that the social partners can deviate from this until 2020 is therefore deleted. This can also be decided in the near future. As for Carrefour, we will impose on employers who use SWT in restructuring an additional obligation to release an additional amount for staff who choose to take training for a bottleneck profession. We have planned to require restructuring firms to take initiatives to stimulate the training of people in RCC in occupations that are in short supply. All these measures are ready. Let me mention one more: the mobility budget and cash for car. The mobility budget will be discussed at the Council of Ministers this week, where we will approve it and then send it to Parliament as soon as possible so that people can opt for cash for car or a mobility budget. I will leave it for the 28 measures, but I would like to stress once again that we have already agreed on what we are going to do for each measure: a draft law on jobs, the adaptation of a C.B., the writing of the social partners, joint committees; the letters are ready and will leave shortly. I would also like to talk about degressivity. The Prime Minister has already referred to it. With some reactions according to which this is a pure saving operation, I thought they had read other texts, because I never decided and we never discussed it. I would like to stress once again that this is the most complex system of unemployment benefits that you can imagine. The unemployment system with stages 1, 2 and 3 and with subdivisions makes it so complex that no one can explain how it works at the moment. Services and administrations are also calling for simplification. That is our first objective: to simplify the unemployment system. The second objective is to make the unemployment benefit system a more activating system. Not only are we saying that it is an observation made by academics, made by the High Council for Employment, who have drawn up experts and have already drawn up proposals to make the current system an activation system. This system is now almost inscrutable and no longer applicable in practice. I would like to stress that this is not a saving operation. Some people talk about poverty. That's totally incorrect. In the decision taken, it was expressly stated that in the third stage, of course, we do not touch the level which is largely above the living wage. There is another category, the cohabitants, who are under the living wage. We will also study and address this issue. As already explained, we are going to do the following. In an initial period, we go for six months either the ceiling or the percentage of 65 years old, which is not always 65, to indicate how complex it is to tackle and increase to a higher amount or percentage. Secondly, we are going to make unemployment benefits more degressive. I have to say to you, and I also said it in plenary, that this is not a strange exercise, and the previous government also made that exercise with accelerated degressivity. The reactions were more or less the same as today. I would also like to stress that we must first wait and see what specific proposals we will be putting forward in November and that people should not be unduly concerned that they should be covered by the poverty line, under the living wage. That is certainly not our intention. I understand that the discussion about raising benefits is a concern. We have made it ours throughout the legislature. I can prove that, too. If we compare the minimum benefits at the beginning of this legislature with where they are now, then I can assure you that all these minimum benefits have increased. As I have said, I will develop a number of scenarios in November and that will gradually enter into force in 2019. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the system of unemployment benefits will be reorganised. Our system, which we will discuss in November, will not only simplify, it will also become an activation system. It is the intention, as the Prime Minister has already said, to help job seekers get to work more quickly. We will not be able to achieve this alone. The regions and the social partners will also have to shoulder their responsibilities, but this reform is a very social and activating reform. I hope that in November and December we in Parliament, in this committee, will be able to give a comprehensive text and explanation and demonstrate that the new activation system will be better than the current one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u18	Colleagues, you have all received the budget tables. I propose that the Minister for the Budget should give a brief explanation of the budgetary tables and that Minister Van Overtveld explain the ARCO deal and the privatisation of Belfius. Minister De Croo can then comment on the fourth telecom operator. After that, all groups will have the opportunity to respond to the whole or certain partial aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed the last preparatory work for an initial budget for this Parliament: the 2019 initial budget, which will obviously take place in multi-annual terms, as provided for in the law. It may also be an opportunity to look at what has already been done. Thanks to the figures of the Institute of National Accounts (ICN), which is an independent institution, we see that in terms of fiscal consolidation, the government's work has already allowed the nominal deficit and structural deficit to be divided by three in three years, between 2014 and 2017. This work has also brought an end to the unbroken rise in Belgian debt since the last financial crisis and triggered a dynamic of debt reduction, since between 2014 and 2017, we reduced the debt by 3.6% of GDP. As the Prime Minister said at the beginning of this meeting, this reduction in deficit and debt is the result of both work to reduce the tax burden and work to reduce current expenditures, excluding interest charges. As you know, from the beginning, we are still working on two axes. The fiscal year is always an opportunity to work on two main axes: on the one hand, fiscal consolidation as such and the gradual reduction of the deficit we inherited, and on the other hand, economic recovery and job creation. The work of this government around this initial budget does not derogate from this rule, you will understand. With regard to further consolidation, you will notice that budgetary work, with regard to the 2019 initial budget, aims to raise the deficit to -0.6% of GDP by the end of 2019. This means, as we have announced, a division by 3.7 of the deficit since the establishment of this government. In addition, we are working at the same time on the 'jobs deal' which is the meeting between this budget work and the desire to create jobs. Not only create employment, but ensure that there is a match between supply and demand for employment. As usual, we started our work on the basis of the Monitoring Committee. The latter has given us an effort of 2.6 billion, which corresponds to a photo taken by this Committee on the basis of assumptions it has adopted and on the basis of unchanged political work. How did we proceed this time? As usual, we have worked through both technical corrections and a series of measures, both in primary, social and fiscal expenditure. You have received the paintings, which I will travel fairly widely. Of the 2.6 billion (the starting figure), you first have a macroeconomic correction. Indeed, the 2017 base has changed: we are now at 0.92% deficit. In order to achieve the target of 0.6% in 2019, we need to make this 0.32% improvement, which is in line with what was planned in the stability programme – remember this – and which is actually slightly higher than what was planned in the stability programme in terms of improvement, since we need to take into account this new base 2017. It's still a little technical, but we have to adjust over time. This is part of the beauty of budget work, and those who love it will understand me. With regard to work as such, various measures and technical corrections, I said. In primary expenditure, there is 375 million. This amount includes the revision of the interest we have to pay on the debt, for just under EUR 100 million, and the improvement of the recovery for judicial costs. In the tax section, the measures and technical corrections amount to 993 million. This includes 210 million for the spread over the time of the unitary statute measures, 330 million for corporation tax, accounting for the last CODIT, and 19 million for the diesel cliquet system. The latter had not been taken by the Monitoring Committee. There is of course also a part Work. That's 617 million. The Pension section amounts to 138 million. As you can see, there is a technical correction of 132 million. That is the revision of the volume effects on pensions. These were calculated on the basis of the month of May and May is an exceptional month and therefore had to be corrected. Of course, new measures will also be taken in relation to tax fraud and social fraud, amounting to 250 million. You have heard Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters on the Employment side. You will have noticed that this is actually the point of intersection between 'classical' budget work and the government's willingness to work not only on job creation, but also on the equation between supply and demand for jobs. It is true that this additional work, through these 28 measures, will bring additional resources to the State budget. When you have a job, you pay contributions, you get income, you pay taxes, and you get out of unemployment. So there are also lower unemployment costs. There is a whole series of other induced effects that are not part of this calculation. That is the approach we have taken. The fiscal year also provides an opportunity to confirm the Strategic Investments component. We know that the Prime Minister and the government have a strong commitment to investing strategically in our country. In fact, a country that no longer invests is becoming poorer in the long run. The opposite is true, too. When investing strategically, it is interesting and important for long-term development and therefore economic returns are expected as well. This part of the National Investment Pact is also part of a discussion that we have had for some time already with the European Commission on the basis of a non-paper. It has been distributed and discussed in a consultation committee with the Regions, which are also very interested in this approach. Indeed, the flexibility proposed today by the European Commission lies in a legislative straitjacket far too strict to be able to take full advantage of it. To cite just one example, in the current legislative framework, to be able to enter into a system of investment flexibility, the country must be in economic decline. This is not the case for Europe. No country in Europe can now claim this flexibility, and this is all the more important because it is shared not only by the Belgian federal government, but also by the federated entities and other European countries. We therefore continue the discussion in this direction. As you will also understand, this budget work involves confirming the tax shift, which represents the increase in purchasing power for workers, especially for those with small and low wages. This policy also leads to a reduction in social contributions in the context of job creation, particularly for low and low wages. I wanted to make that clear because we believe in the government that this measure is being taken and cannot be called into question in our budgetary work, although some of you are challenging what they call the 'tax shift budget'. We did not see it as a ball and therefore wanted to confirm our intention and willingness to work for the benefit of workers and job creators with a particular interest in small and medium-sized wages. This is an amount of one and a half billion that is confirmed in a fiscal year, which leads to fiscal consolidation, job creation and a match between the supply of jobs and the other means that we are going to talk about. I think we are proposing a fairly important set of measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u20	I suggest that the Minister of Finance should go into the IPO, Belfius and ARCO a little more deeply. Unless you have something to say about taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u21	There will be questions about taxation later, I think. On that occasion, I will certainly answer all the questions that will be asked. With regard to Belfius, the government has decided to privatise about 30% of the shares. That decision is well-considered and based on a number of arguments, which I sum up in three points. Firstly, once again I would like to congratulate, on behalf of the entire government, on what has been done at Belfius in recent years. When Belfius was removed from the Dexia entity, there was considerable doubt as to whether the bank could be made viable. Meanwhile, Belfius has been shown to be solvent and profitable and to have all the assets in its power to develop further. We want to support and encourage this development. A partial privatisation is the obvious way to strengthen that momentum in the future. This also ensures the necessary serenity in the field of employment at Belfius in the future. I come to a second element. The Belgian State still has very important commitments in the financial sector, within BNP Paribas Fortis, Ethias, Belfius. These commitments are quite heavy in a sector that remains volatile and uncertain, like anything else about the economy. Thirdly, there remains an anchoring of Belfius in Belgium. This is essential for the government. We are well aware that Belfius plays an important role in the Belgian economy and in the financing of public authorities. The anchoring of the Belgian data remains therefore important for the government. However, it was decided to privatise 30 %. This privatisation will go hand in hand with a standard in such structures, i.e. a pre-IPO dividend, a dividend paid at the time the IPO is launched. That pre-IPO dividend is a hinged part of the scheme, which is entirely in line with what was agreed at the time of the government agreement on the ARCO cooperative scheme. This is a total envelope of 600 million, largely financed in three ways: through the gesture of Belfius, through the outcome of the end of the ARCO companies, and through the pre-IPO dividend, which I have just talked about and which is, by the way, the largest part of the entire funding. It has also been decided that we will proceed with the creation of a fund to manage that envelope and to ensure compensation in the appropriate and legally well-founded manner. Finally, we will also ask Belfius to set up a unique contact point so that those concerned know where they need to be for the proper handling and handling and so that they know how to handle the cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u22	Minister De Croo will talk about the fourth telecom operator, and Minister Bacquelaine is very brief about the 140 million in the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u24	In 10 minutes, the floor will be in the committee. The government's coming here. We must give her the opportunity to give her a minimum of information first. We have time for that now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u25	Mr President, I shall be brief. According to the regulator, the BIPT, telecom prices are high in our country. This has also been confirmed on several occasions by other bodies, such as the National Bank of Belgium, the European Commission and the OECD. In their view, this would be due to the lack of competition. It would also be one of the factors that increases inflation in our country. The fact that the telecom user pays too much has an impact on the use of telecoms, as well as an impact on the economy, in the broad sense of the word. Since inflation has a direct impact on wage costs, it is therefore one of the factors that has a negative impact on our competitiveness. We have taken two important measures in this regard. Firstly, the measure taken a month ago concerns a new market analysis of BIPT for the fixed market. It is approved and makes it easier for other players to use fixed networks. The second measure concerns the spectrum auction. It is auctioned for a long period of 20 years. We make it possible to underline that it is a possibility for a fourth operator to engage in access to the spectrum. Should a fourth operator be interested, this is an important element to increase competition in the current market. If there is a fourth operator, it will have to build a customer base by offering prices and offers that are more attractive than what is currently available in the current market. To make this decision, we relied on the analysis of the IBPT. The government has also asked for an additional report to explain the need for the measure and to analyse its various potential impacts. From there, we decided to hold a spectrum auction next year. The possibility will therefore exist for a fourth operator to enter the market. A second element that has been mentioned even less is that the conditions for selling the spectrum have higher conditions in terms of coverage. Coverage will increase from the current 98 % to 99.8 % of the territory. This is important, for example in the area of 5G that is necessary for maximum coverage for self-driving cars or smart cities. One final element of coverage is that we are now asking for the railway lines to be covered. Now the cover is based on the places where people live. People don't usually live where the railroads are. As a result, there is very weak coverage on the train and people cannot use their smartphone or tablet there. We have chosen the maximum coverage that all major railway lines will be able to use. That is an important element. Should SNCB or eventually another operator decide to provide Wi-Fi on train, the 4G or 5G can be converted into Wi-Fi for the users. This is an important step towards greater dynamism in the telecoms market. This dynamic seems to me to be too little, and according to the regulator today. I firmly believe that more competition is a good thing and above all a good thing for the Belgian citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you will have noticed in the budget table, the pension component is in favour of a positive correction of EUR 138 million, of which EUR 132 million comes from a technical correction. I would like to make it clear, so that there is no ambiguity about this, that this technical correction comes from the administration of the Federal Pension Service. It includes the finding that the evaluation was conducted in May because May was the last month known at the time of the evaluation. However, as you know, to have a full year's pension, it takes at least 104 days, which brings us to May 1. It is therefore on 1 May that workers who want to take an early pension have an additional year from 1 May. It is therefore from that moment that the flow of pensioners is extremely important. It's a very special month. The technical correction comes from this element. You will also have found that the pension for incapacity is being reformed, in the sense that we want to ensure that the chances of re-entry of statutory civil servants are strengthened. Today, the pension for incapacity is a trap for many workers. We want to ensure that there is a greater delay in the decision to consider the worker permanently unfit and unable to work. You also know that the concept of serious illness and long-term illness has evolved considerably in recent years as a result of advances in medicine. People who are declared completely unfit for work can regain their ability to work. This is any benefit for them because the pension for incapacity generates extremely low pensions for those who enter this system early in the professional career. It is, in my view, a positive step. The preliminary draft law provides that, at the time of the first examination, the medical authorities may not decide on a retirement for health or incapacity of the official. In addition, it will only be possible to re-examine it after the expiry of a two-year period. The purpose of this additional period is to increase the officer's chances of re-entry into employment. Another measure taken during the conclave, which also aims to increase the replacement rate for pensioners, is the generalisation of supplementary pensions. We have decided to ensure that, from now on, employees who do not receive a second pillar supplementary pension within their company – almost 30% – will be entitled to it. This comes after the generalization of supplementary pensions for the self-employed, and after the generalization of those of public service contractors. Today, an additional step is being taken by allowing for a higher replacement rate for pensioners, thanks in particular to this second pillar. Under this legislature and beyond these new measures – the tax shift and the strengthening of the purchasing power of pensioners – the increase in the minimum pension, for a full career, was between 2014 and 1 January 2018, of 95 euros per month for employees and 160 euros per month for the self-employed. Between 2012 and 2014, the increase was around 20 euros. This is an extremely large monthly increase in the purchasing power of the smallest pensions. I would remind you that pensioners spend the majority of their expenditure on consumption. It is therefore important to strengthen their purchasing power. Increasing the lowest pensions through the replacement rate through the extension and generalisation of the second pillar and increasing the possibility of re-employment of statutory civil servants contribute to the general increase in the purchasing power of pensioners, which, in my view, is one of the characteristics of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u27	Several Members have asked to speak. You have the floor first, Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u28	Mr President, the matter is important. This means that we will align a number of questions and considerations, one after the other, and then the government will answer. But I do not think that will necessarily clarify a number of things. Between the time the question is asked and the time when we get the answers, in my opinion... Anyway, if I understand correctly, we have no choice! Mr President, the first point concerns the ARCO and Belfius dossier. I would like to ask a very simple question, both to the Prime Minister and to Mr Peeters: if Europe – which has decided to take up the matter, if I understand correctly, despite Mr Peeters' first statements – does not agree with the solution you are proposing, does it mean that Belfius will not enter the stock market for 30%? In other words, if Europe does not agree on ARCO, will there be no privatisation of Belfius? It is a simple question and I hope that we will have an answer that is just as simple! In addition, we would still like to have a little more details on the practical modalities of what is planned for ARCO co-operators. If I understand correctly, you are no longer planning a financial flow to the legal structures but rather to the natural persons, the co-operators themselves. Could we, then, have more details on this? You mentioned it yesterday at a press conference. At the same time, today there are press articles. However, we would like things to be clarified. We are still talking about 600 million euros, which will be borne by the whole community, including people who are not co-operators of ARCO. I therefore believe that taxpayers, as a whole, have the right to know in detail what is planned. Secondly, Mr President: there would be a lot to say about the budget, but here I would like to establish a link with a case which has disappeared somewhat from the radars, that of the reform of corporate tax. It will be remembered that the reform of ISOC is a gross budget cost of EUR 5.4 billion at cruising speed, i.e. by 2020 (that's tomorrow), offset by a series of measures, the two most important of which are the elimination of notional interests and the introduction of many provisions decided at European level to combat tax evasion – so-called "ATAD". These two measures cover about two thirds of the financing of the corporate tax reform, which essentially consists of nominal rate reductions. At the same time, we see, in the budget table before us, that for 2019, the government is expecting a budgetary gain related to the reduction of interest rates. However, in financing the corporate tax reform, as part of the elimination of notional interest, we were surprised that the government expected a very large budgetary gain, because it is not relying on a reduction in interest rates, but on their increase. This is a paradox. There is an inconsistency here. On the one hand, you cannot rely on a EUR 100 million gain for a reduction in interest charges and, on the other, on a budgetary gain related to an increase in the same interest rates, as regards what you expect to reap because of the removal of notional interest. You're facing an inconsistency. I think it is wise for you to tell us whether you are planning a fall or an increase in interest rates. If you will allow me to be a little prosaic: you cannot have a child of two beds. You have to choose. Either there's an increase, or there's a decrease, but you can't have both at the same time. If you win on the budget in 2019 with a reduction in interest rates, you will lose in compensation for the financing of your corporate tax reform. Madam Budget Minister, for the rest, I note that you do not take into account what the Monitoring Committee is telling you – not its chairman, but the Committee as a whole. Some of its members wanted an alternative point of view to be noted, which is not known whether it is a minority or not, because the Chairman of the Monitoring Committee refused to tell us how many members did not follow him on the 2.6 billion effort he set. In short, you do not follow the nuances of some members of the Monitoring Committee, and you expect a budgetary effort of EUR 2.6 billion. It will be recalled that some members of the Monitoring Committee point to the problem of advance payments. They consider this to be just a revenue anticipation, due to the fact that you penalize companies that do not pay enough advance payments, which has led the same companies to anticipate their payments. It's just a revenue slip. The amount of €1.8 billion is quoted. You also do not dwell on this 500 million euro problem in the health care budget, which is also pointed out by some members of the Monitoring Committee. These are just two examples of a series of problems. Clearly, you are avoiding these problems, but we need explanations. For the rest, you align the technical corrections. We're getting used to it! You say you did not work on the basis of the report of the Monitoring Committee and you would have told the press to work on the basis of the Codit. You are making a technical correction, considering that the revenues are no longer those fixed by the Monitoring Committee. On the one hand, you are taking EUR 2.6 billion, an amount proposed by the Chairman of the Monitoring Committee, but you are saying that the conclusions of this committee are outdated and you are relying on technical corrections induced by parameters that have evolved since the submission of the Monitoring Committee's report and the publication of this budget table. The situation seems to me to be inconclusive and you will have to provide us with explanations. You are also looking forward to an increase in dividends for 2019. However, assuming that Belfius is privatized at about 30% and that the situation takes place by the end of the year, mechanically, you will lose 30% of the dividends you could expect in 2019. Of two things one: either this loss of 30% of dividends in 2019 is already integrated into your budget, or you still expect to receive 100% of Belfius' dividends in 2019, thinking that Belfius will not be privatized in 2019 at this 30% rate. If Belfius is effectively privatized to 30% in 2019, you must take into account a decrease in dividends. How do you rely on an increase in dividends as you separate for a third of one of the assets that earns you profits? Incidentally - or primarily - what does the expected 112 million dividend increase correspond to? Mr President, let me do a little parenthesis because I have forgotten something important. As I said earlier, the financing of corporate tax reform is quite spectacular. We will remember that by 2020, you think the cost will be $5.4 billion, 100% funded. Mr. Minister of Finance, have you put in place a specific monitoring on the evaluation of the financing of corporate tax reform? Do you realize that, Minister of Finance? If you have some macro-economic parameters, I am thinking in particular of the interest rates I mentioned earlier, but perhaps also of the difficulties associated with the effective implementation of these famous ATAD measures inspired by Europe in the fight against tax evasion and assuming that they are not operational as you wish and that, therefore, you have less revenue, have you put in place a specific monitoring for corporate tax reform? We're talking about a $5.4 billion wheel, I'll call it back. This means that you are potentially facing a budget accident if your forecasts are not correct. I come back to the budget table. I'm not going to be too long. I think we'll have time in the months and weeks that have just worked on the budget. However, we should be told why, decisively, on the structural part of these famous advance payments, you are moving away from the considerations of both Europe and the National Bank, and that each time you insist on maximising the structural part of the advance payments. There's something we don't understand. We are still talking about an amount of 330 million euros. Every time you add 10% of the structural share to the advance payments, we are necessarily on important figures because the basis of calculation is large and amounts to billions. This is like a kind of stubbornness and bet that is made on bases that we hope will be clarified. Mr. Minister of Finance, the Minister of Budget, could you explain to us why you have such a large structural share of things that are ultimately only tax instalments and that, at some point, will not be duplicated at the time of enrolment? Another point is the famous 500 million euros of return effects related to your so-called 'jobs deal' measures. That is 40 000 euros per job, if I understand correctly. Could you give us the details of these calculations? The minister said, "Yes, you understand." It's kind of the common sense. In the face of generalities, one can agree with the fact that someone who works pays taxes, then there are social contributions, etc. What profile do you draw on? The average PPI rate in Belgium is 23%. There are personal contributions but you know that some of the jobs benefit from reductions in personal contributions. And as far as employer contributions are concerned, you have already reduced the rate. What makes it possible for you to reach 40 000 euros? What type of employment did you use for your macroeconomic estimate? What is the gross amount, with such average tax amount and such average social contribution amount? Can you tell us where this 500 million figure comes from? I'm sure you've been sent a file with the details. I'm not saying your numbers are bad, but we want to have the details to see if it's realistic or not. If you are part of a typical case that you have multiplied by 12,500, it is because you claim that this typical case is exemplary or representative of all the jobs you expect to see created by all of your measurements. It seems to me that this is the beginning of a cascade of presumptions! Prime Minister, I am looking into this because we are talking about 500 million. So it's worth seeing how you carpented your calculation. If you can't answer us now – what I can understand – try to give us the information as soon as you can. We would also like to know what is the situation of the EUR 150 million in the fight against tax fraud. Mr. Minister of Finance, what is this really about? From exercise to exercise, you add a diaper! Mr Finance Minister, not so long ago, in a press release, you said that you had record figures in the fight against tax fraud and you had put forward a figure of EUR 2 billion. The press did its job and noted that out of the EUR 2 billion, there was a file that weighed 1.3 billion and was in litigation! So that means there's no kopeck in the state coffers! You are now talking about EUR 150 million more in the fight against tax fraud, what is this really about? What are the measures on which you endorse this figure of 150 million? It seems to me that we are again in the usual and recurring swelling characteristic of your budget work! I now turn to the corporate tax reform on which your fiscal trajectory is based; I am very afraid that without monitoring we will face serious problems. You say you will anticipate an ATAD (anti-tax evasion) measure. I would remind you that on this part, you are relying on a total amount of $1.3 billion in ATAD to fund your corporate tax reform. You don't expect anything in 2019 in your corporate tax reform table. You only expect tax revenues under these measures from 2020. And now you're telling us you're going to anticipate. What does that mean? Does that mean you're going to introduce a bill now? Which one? What exactly is that supposed to mean? What are the calculation bases that allow you to anticipate a recipe? In this regard, too, we would like to have concrete answers. I still have two or three more questions, Mr. Chairman, and I will soon finish. Prime Minister, on degressivity, what we are denouncing is that you are accelerating this moment when people are going to arrive at the minimum allowance. You therefore bring them more quickly to the minimum allowance which is barely above the poverty line. That is what we denounce, no more or less. We therefore denounce the fact that you bring job seekers more quickly to the threshold of precariousness. I am not going to get into polemics, but if you think you can broach the opposition by considering that in essence it is alarmist, I have no problem in assuming this alarmist character from the moment when your concern is not to see how we can increase unemployment benefits and a whole series of other social incomes to bring them beyond the poverty line, but on the contrary, to want to speed up the moment when these beneficiaries are approaching the poverty line. That's what we're denouncing. Mr Minister for Employment, we would also like to hear from you about the planned end of taking into account seniority in salary scales, a measure strongly denounced by all the trade unions: the liberal trade union, the Christian trade union, the socialist trade union. We believe that this is a frontal attack on social consultation. We would like to hear from you about this because you, as Minister for Employment, are the guarantor of the proper functioning of social consultation. We would also like to hear from Mr. De Croo and the Minister of Budget on what you intend to do, and with what staggering, revenue that would be generated by the result of the 5G auction. If I understand correctly, this amount will not be directly included in the budget. The sequencing will take place over a long period of time. More technically and perhaps it is secondary at this stage, do you consider it a common recipe or capital? Prime Minister, one issue that has been very busy with us in Parliament is the replacement of the F-16s. Could you remind us of the political timetable in which you stand, because it is difficult today to see clearly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u29	Members of the government, the explanation we received today, is largely the same as yesterday. I thought we'd get a little more explanation, but that's not the case. We got the budget table. My colleague Laaouej has already asked quite a lot of specific questions. Actually, I have just one additional question. Your promise was to achieve a balanced budget. You don't like to talk about it yourself, but that is the promise you made when you found each other a few years ago. That budgetary balance is being abandoned, and you are right now, arguing that we have never done as well as we have now and that purchasing power is improving. You are not telling us, perhaps consciously, that in the meantime we also have an index jump, which people feel. The electricity bill has also been increased, making it more expensive for people up to 350 euros a year. I do not call that an increase in purchasing power, quite the contrary. They also try to ignore the fact that the tax shift is still not funded. You may deny that, but the Planning Bureau confirms that it is not funded. The chairman of our committee agrees with that. You promised a budget in balance, you don't make up for your homework, you deliberately ignore reality, you saddle our children with an invoice that we don't yet know how to pay. For me, you have been guided on that level, if you had to negotiate for so long to come here with that poor result. The figures presented today show that you will not do much in 2019. You will save only 0.08% of GDP. You will make an effort of EUR 350 million, while Europe had set a target of 0.6%. You won't make it. So far as the budget is concerned. I'll join the labor deal. You have involved the work deal in order to make the story of the budget somewhat dazzling, although it actually deserves a serious debate. So you're here with a labor deal. There are indeed a lot of unfilled vacancies in our country. Our country has a lot of job seekers. Mr Peeters, it was you who once promised to help every Belgian get a job. Now you come here with a work deal in which you will reduce the unemployment benefit of those looking for a job. You say that the issue of unemployment benefit and degressivity is really complex, that nobody understands that. People understand: after six months the benefit goes down and that time and time again and on the basis of the number of years worked, the benefit falls even faster or not. That's not so hard to understand. However, you use the argument that you simplify the arrangements and therefore give less money to the jobseekers. The people, Mr Peeters, are asking for a job. You think you're helping people by giving them less money and weakening them, but that way, the whole of society will pay. On the other hand, give these people a job. What are you doing? There's the ARCO deal I'm still talking about. You were the social face of the government. Who do you still believe? It's the third time you've let yourself roll. The first time you walked away from the negotiating table. You put the added value tax on the table. You thought it had been enough, that much had been done and much asked of the people and that it was time for the strongest shoulders to bear the burden. You ran away and came back and what were you promised? A solution for the ARCO file. The value added tax has not been introduced. The second year in a row there were negotiations again. The ARCO problem wasn't solved. What are you doing, Mr Peeters? You accept the untaxed extra-earning. People in our country who are struggling to enter the labour market today see in that system the jobs that are intended for them reserved for people who already have a job. You've agreed to that. Helping every Belgian get a job is helping every Belgian who already has a job today. You let yourself roll because there was another deal for ARCO. Did it get there? No. Today we come together again and there is an agreement for the ARCO savers. The price you pay for this is to mortify the unemployment benefit, that is to say to the weak in one society. Mr Peeters, dear CD&Vers, I really don't understand that and it pisses me off! One pretends that there is only one solution when it comes to jobseekers: take away their money. Someone once said that if they can't pay their bills, they'll get a job. You know, Mr Peeters, people will be looking for work if you guide them. In your 28 measures there are some in the field of training. I welcome it, but that is not enough. Don't think that by taking their unemployment benefit, those people will have a job tomorrow. Give them the right guidance. If there are bottlenecks, if 200 000 people are looking for work, if there are 134 000 vacancies and they do not match, then it is logic that you train those 200 000 jobseekers to fill the vacancies. Training, training, training and guidance tailored to your needs. But you are now making up an excuse by initially giving a little more benefit, while the end result remains unchanged. You're saying you're not pushing more people into poverty. If the measure is budget-neutral, you will have to spend somewhere and there will be a time when people receive less? I thought it was your promise to raise all the benefits to the poverty line. Where's that promise today? Your argument that the minimum remains unchanged is not valid. It's not simplification, it's impoverishment. This pisses me off because I think it's important that everyone in our country gets equal opportunities to find a job. You have introduced the flexi-jobs and the untaxed extra earnings for people who already work four fifths. People who have a harder time on the labour market are not getting to work. Forty-five people who lose their jobs tomorrow are worried because they send out 800 applications and don't get an answer. Your practical test deserves a big zero, because none of the employers have yet been convicted because they wouldn't want to hire people because of their age, disability or roots. Those job seekers, Mr Peeters, need your help and guidance. You are now abandoning them by reducing their benefits. You fail as far as I'm concerned. Last week we discussed this and then it sounded like the thought trail was still being investigated. But who do you still believe? Now it's an investigation, tomorrow it's a reality. According to you, the letters and the KBs are ready and it's not about empty promises. You disappoint me very much, along with many others who are looking for work today, making a lot of effort and not being helped by the government. If you lack inspiration, take the train to Genk. At the workstation in Genk, people are successfully accompanied by people who do not even want to accompany the VDAB anymore. Those people all have jobs today. And you think taking the benefit is a solution? On top of that is the decision to get jobseekers to do jobs, which you have not mentioned today. How do you propose this community service? If people don't want to do those chores anymore, are they gonna lose their social security? Currently, jobseekers are already accompanied and can take an internship or training. For some, that is not enough. For those for whom this is not enough, tailor-made guidance is important. However, you are introducing both a reduction in unemployment benefits today and you are making sure that they also have to do jobs for that benefit. I think that's antisocial. It's antisocial of this government. Do we have to sit together for so long to achieve such a result? Third, the ARCO deal. The ARCO savers have been promised time and time again that they will see their pennies again. If your ARCO deal, for which you have so far taken so many antisocial measures, does not come, what is the result? What happens then? What's the deal you made? What's the certainty you have? After all, one says that Europe should not express itself on this issue. Soon came the story that Europe has to express itself on this issue. Apart from who has to speak on that, let's say it's not gonna happen, then what? What is the price you pay then? Was it all worth it to you? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Copperfield family, I am very much looking forward to the substantive debate. Mrs. Wilmès, you are already sighing. I'm just trying to put a little sense of humor in it. Humor is of course very subjective, but I was looking for and found no better definition for this budget work. Mr Verherstraeten, I was wondering on the train this morning what someone like Yves Leterme or Pieter De Crem would have said about budgetary work like this. They were tough on the purple budget at the time. In this respect, this government should certainly not be undervalued. I am going to try to make that concrete in my speech. Prime Minister, you tried to justify yourself in your presentation because of the changing environment. You said that today it should be mainly about jobs, about that mismatch in the labour market. That's why you gave a presentation that was mostly about the job deal. It is, of course, right that the world is changing. New challenges are emerging, such as filling out those vacancies. But let's be honest, the reason you're focusing on the job deal today is because your budget report is very poor. And that's still your self-chosen major. That was a bit of what this government has brought together. It was the big challenge. You and the N-VA were going to put things in order. You won't deliver that promise at all. I see the chairman sighing, it's waiting for his next blog about it. But even without Eric Van Rompuy's blogs, we know that this government is not doing a very good job in terms of budget. What I also see in your presentations every year is a certain world weirdness. You are talking about the pluses, the parameters that are on green, the things that are going well, but you are forgetting a lot of things with which our country is dangling at the back of the peloton today. There are rankings that show that we are not doing well in a number of domains. On the occasion of the national holiday, our group presented a report containing the pluses, for example the number of jobs that will be added, job vacancies that will have to be filled and additional start-ups, who will join the cart in this country, but you forget year after year that, for example, the number of people who have to live with a living wage has increased enormously. A record number of people must rely on food banks. The number of long-term sick has increased enormously. Belgium does not achieve its objectives in terms of climate or fine dust. I therefore particularly blame you for the fact that, year after year, you are preparing a half, incomplete or unfair report. In this way, a number of important societal challenges are not met. That is a great pity, because I believe that our country has a lot of assets to be at the top of the rankings. As far as the budget is concerned, Mrs Wilmès, Prime Minister, I almost have to conclude that you want to abolish the Monitoring Committee. You also seem to confirm that; thank you for that honesty I see the sparkle in your eyes. The abolition of the Monitoring Committee is a reform you did not expect, but you are doing it de facto: you are ignoring everything that the Monitoring Committee has mentioned and written down. The Monitoring Committee has identified many uncertainties: the story of the advance payments, the tax shift, the medical care and other overruns that you simply ignore. You say that the report of the Monitoring Committee is one of the 137 cases that have been written in this country in the last month and you are going to work on your own analysis. I don't think that's right. In fact, I do not think that a colleague has already spoken about it, but you are even adding the effort. I am talking about row 4 of Mrs Wilmès' budget table which was just presented. You are adjusting the effort towards the optimistic assessment of the Monitoring Committee, or let us say that of the Chair of the Monitoring Committee, and you are squeezing EUR 170 million. Your starting point makes your homework even easier. For me, an illustration is that the promise of promises has long since been on your own agenda. Secondly, the concept of 'technical corrections'. Those technical corrections do take historical proportions. Never before have so many millions, almost billions of euros of technical corrections been presented. In this respect, your agreement is indeed historic. In the past, the criticism of the N-VA was that the fight against tax fraud, as a final part of the budgetary exercise, is totally irresponsible and that laxism on the left must be removed. I note, Mr Van Overtveldt, that everything you have written about this as editor-in-chief of Trends is now going into the garbage can. You're just gonna take over that method. Also in this story, EUR 250 million from the fight against social and fiscal fraud, without any measure. If measures are mentioned, they are outside the budget line. Just look at the accelerated implementation of the European anti-abuse directive, look at the fight against tax fraud, which is EUR 57 million next to the EUR 250 million. In this respect, you are already fully integrated into the old Belgian customs. Let me give you another example. The Monitoring Committee pointed to the risks of prepayments. You simply add 330 million for the advance payment of corporation tax. Something else in the genre of question marks and uncertainties with a view to extra air in the budget is spreading over the time of the tax compensations of the unitary statute. If we add up all these questions, we can see that there are a lot of uncertainties. There are always uncertainties in a budget, but now they are assuming historical proportions. If we add up what Mr Bacquelaine calls technical corrections on pensions, we will soon get to half a billion euros in social expenditure that will be saved somewhere. I also read that Mrs De Block needs to find a solution for exceeding the health budget, EUR 300 million. Apparently, 100 million are wanted in the sector, but we still need EUR 200 million in health care in the coming months. I do not think that is fair, Prime Minister. You try to make it a good news show, but you make a lot of savings, you take a lot of painful measures, no technical corrections. You are hiding things that make a difference for people's lives: 200 million in health care; 138 million in pensions; 80 million in the welfare envelope of people who are having a hard time. I don't think that's fair. You say you don't, but I can see it that way. Well-being envelope link with poverty envelope: 80 miljoen euro. For me, that is very difficult to reconcile with what is in your presentation, where you speak of a 100 % benefit from the welfare envelope. I would like to invite you to respond to that. Thirdly, half a million euros are easily saved in social areas, which are not being implemented, but which are going to happen in practice for the people on the ground. Fourth, the job deal. I agree with you that the world is changing and that we need to face new challenges. However, the way in which you do this cannot be recognised as ecologists because of the strong human and social image that assumes that those who do not have a job are the ones who do nothing and do nothing. That is a vision of punishment instead of rewarding, strengthening and training. Of course, there are also good points. What is good may also be said. For example, measures relating to training certainly deserve praise and the story of positive actions represents a major breakthrough. As a relatively young person, I am in favour of looking at seniority. There are also a lot less sympathetic points. In particular, I find it very difficult to digest, Mr Peeters, the fact that this work deal for long-term job seekers is becoming a poverty deal. You are very much following the logic of punishment, in which every countryman without a job is viewed as a potential diaper, while those looking for work and who have to resort to unemployment benefit are not just sitting at home; there are obligations to seek a job. What are you doing, however? You will participate in the N-VA's show. You're gonna be the one who's throwing the strings that if people don't have a job, it's their own big fault. You join Mrs Demir's doctrine, the Secretary of State for Combating Poverty, who says that when their stomachs are empty, they will apply better. Quod nun, with an empty stomach one will not apply better or build a better future. What I think is a cowardice, and I am sorry to express it so strongly, is that you will not come forward with the concrete proposals until November. I do not think it is a coincidence that you want to take this as a CD&V Vice-President and as the candidate mayor of Antwerp absolutely over the municipal elections. People should not know before the municipal elections what CD&V has admitted in the facts to the N-VA and the Open Vld. Should this measure be incredibly social and heartwarming, you would not wait until November to put your figures and your scenarios on the table. In this respect, you seem to want to avoid confrontation with Parliament, public opinion and people close to your party. You postpone that until after the municipal elections. If you are really convinced that this is a good measure, put the scenarios on the table. As far as we are concerned, pushing people closer to poverty and further away from the labour market is absolutely not a fair measure. As far as the EUR 500 million are concerned, you are trying to argue that 12 500 additional jobs are not really excessive. However, it is not so much a question of the number of jobs that can be created, but of the enormous budgetary return you are enrolling. This can also be seen in the table. You're counting on an extra 500 million euros from the job deal. We have just received the figures. I can see at least four reasons for doubting that budgetary return. Firstly, you already provide for a budgetary return of EUR 500 million in 2019, while the measures will start in the course of 2019. I assume that something like the unemployment benefit will apply to new arrivals in the system. After all, at the end of the journey you are not going to reduce the benefit of people who have not received the increase at the beginning. At least I hope so. If you then assume that there will be a budgetary return of EUR 500 million by 2019, that is one of the reasons for me to describe you all as the Copperfield family. With a lot of magic and creativity, you are trying to smear up the budget. A second reason is that in that job deal there are not only measures that...(The light in the room goes out) That is probably one of the two nuclear power plants, Doel of Tihange, that goes out. Only for the nuclear power plants there is unmotivated time-credit in this country, but for the workers no longer after the Michel government. A second reason for doubting a budgetary return of EUR 500 million is that there are also measures that will cost money, such as tax exemptions. I do not see these costs emerging anywhere, so I assume that the gross revenue you are leaving from is even higher than EUR 500 million. There are also measures that cost money and so you are actually assuming a higher return than 40 K per employee. A third reason for doubting the amount of EUR 500 million is that the return on some of the 28 measures on the list is not included. What you do around bridge pensioners and starter jobs is next to the 500 million euros. That is a third reason to say that Kris Peeters and Charles Michel count themselves extremely rich with the 500 million euros. A fourth reason is your assessment. If you say that we are talking about EUR 500 million for 12 500 jobs, then we are talking about EUR 40 000 per job created. I'm very curious about your calculations. In the last study of the Federal Planning Office which charged it, I read in the press that you will be referring to it, and that the figure is EUR 25 000. That is a huge difference from the amount of EUR 40 000 you are providing. Indexing the amount of 25 000 of the 2014 Federal Planning Office still amounts to a maximum of 32 000 euros. So, Minister Peeters, I see many reasons for saying very clearly that you count yourself wealthy and that having an agreement was more important than its credibility. A final concrete point is ARCO. Mr Peeters, it is a pity that you were not on the same train as I was this morning. I know what I'm gonna do now is a classic in politics, but I'm not gonna... unless it's true. There is often someone here saying that he or she met someone yesterday who said this or that, or that his or her mother or neighbor said si en la. Well, I won't, unless it's true. And now it's true! [[Rumor]] I only do that if it's true and now it's true! I was on the train this morning and the conductor wanted to motivate me for this committee session. Turns out he's an ARCO cooperative. You laugh, Mr President, and apparently find this funny, but that man thought it was a lot less funny and I understand why. He was pretty angry. And rightly so. Colleagues, that Kris Peeters is playing with his feet, I do not really have much trouble with that. That's his problem. I do not understand the fact that CD&V, the policy party par excellence in this country, with so much policy anciency, is playing this role. That's their problem. But the fact that the conductor's feet are being played with, I'm having a hard time with that. He asked me how long they were going to fool him and how long they were going to play with his feet. I agree with that for 100 %. "Mr. Calvo," he said, "they've been promising me a solution for ARCO for years. And yesterday," he continued, "I looked at the matter and I saw those three..." I will not quote what he said here, but will keep it decent, hence those three dots "vicepremiers." They are there, and I still don't know if there is a solution for me." You must stop playing with the feet of 800 000 people. You said yesterday morning for the 137th time that there is a solution, and you added that Europe will not have to be consulted. The radio broadcast The Morning wasn't over yet or they heard the opposite. Mrs Rutten said that Europe will of course be consulted, Mrs Vestager said that she is not sure that this solution will be adopted. Minister Van Overtveldt put his N-VA cap back on and said that the ARCO case will have to be notified to Europe. I don't like this. Are you saying you didn't say anything about Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u31	I said we were dialoguing with Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u32	And so that you will consult Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u33	No, dialogue, no consulting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u34	Mr Peeters says that it is all right, we are leaving Europe on the left and we are going straight on to a solution for the ARCO co-operatives. Vestager, Gwendolyn Rutten and Johan Van Overtveldt say otherwise. I don't think that's fair. If you do not or do not want to have a solution for the people, Mr Van Overtveldt, then you must be so honest as to tell those 800 000 people instead of playing with their feet year after year. Then I do not understand, Mr Peeters, that year after year you drop just about everything that you hold dear to a pseudo-solution for ARCO. Even today, after yesterday, there is still a lot of uncertainty for ARCO. In this respect, the indignation and anger of the conductor are correct and also our indignation. Prime Minister, you said at the introduction that you are very coherent. That's right, you persist in anger. You continue to opt for a policy that pays much more attention to shareholders and far too little to the real economy. This policy will reduce benefits even more quickly, even if you shake your head off. That may be interesting on paper, but for people it is a tough reality. You will add the community service to that. I wonder where the Community service for the great assets has remained in this budget, where the community service for the Panama Tourists and those doing tax avoidance, where the community service for multinationals has remained in this budgetary exercise. You are indeed very coherent in a strategy and policy that is very sympathetic and empathetic to those who already have it very well, but far less so for those who have it difficult. This budget does not change anything; on the contrary, it often makes things even more difficult. The job deal doesn't change enough. For this reason, we are not very enthusiastic and we are very keen to enter the debate today, but there is no doubt at all that the debate will last at least until winter, as was the case with the previous Summer Agreement. We will exhaust all the parliamentary instruments to stop some of these measures. We believe that there is enormous social support for a completely different policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u35	I read today that Minister Reynders wants to abolish the Monitoring Committee. Last week we had a very long debate with the official chairman of the Monitoring Committee, Mr Boon, and with the Minister for the Budget. Together they underlined that the Monitoring Committee is not the alpha and omega, but it is one of the few instruments we have. Officials screen the budget in advance. Last year they had not reached a consensus, but Mr Boon has listed the points on which they have not found agreement. I do not have any advice to give to the government, but the abolition of the Monitoring Committee would create more mistrust than confidence, because then there would be no anchor or starting point in the preparation, even for Parliament. The government has left the 2.6 billion of the Monitoring Committee. Everyone can analyse the tables in their own way, but they are an anchor point at the beginning of the discussion. As chairman of the committee, I would therefore like to distance myself from the statement made by Minister Reynders, who is totally inappropriate and merely denigrating the budgetary deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after the classic jobs of the opposition when we talk about a job deal, perhaps it is time for a positive voice from the majority. I would like to remind you that we were sitting here, except for two days, exactly a year ago. Then we discussed the 2017 Summer Agreement. I remember the pessimism of that time: we would see what we would see, we would see who would carry out everything and the measures would be postponed. That far-reaching pessimism, which I heard again this morning, I do not entirely share. I note that the 2017 Summer Agreement is currently up and running. People who work make net extra money today. Work is more flexible in favour of employers and employees. We are activating savings and, above all, Mr Minister, we have brought to a successful conclusion the reform of corporate taxation. I can assure you that this reform in the entrepreneurial world is more appreciated than ever. These cases were on top of the first package of the government's work. Think of the huge pension reform that was launched. Specialists do not immediately say from my party that pensions will remain affordable in the medium and long term. Those are firm statements to say that the government has put the tax shift on top of it. I think that no one can deny that the socio-economic measures do not miss their impact. Let us also accept for once and show pride that in our country too unemployment is falling substantially, namely by 190 000 jobs, which we are presenting as a manifestation, whereas that is a huge effort. The cost of ageing is being controlled, for which I respect. The wage handicap that we had built since 1996 has been eliminated, and I remember the adoption of the first law on the competitiveness of our country in the 1990s. Our companies are European competitive again, taxes are falling, purchasing power is increasing and the job engine is running. The first part of the work that the government puts on the table concerns the employment deal. Twenty-four years after I submitted a document on 18, 19 and 20 May 1994 in which we advocated the activation of unemployment benefit and the strengthening of the principle of insurance in social security, I must honestly say that I am looking with some satisfaction at the steps taken by the government today. The 28 measures are a balanced package for me. It looks at all the facets needed to encourage people to enter the labour market. No experience is needed for 50% of vacant relationships. 60 % does not require a diploma. So, with all due respect, we will not just change the world with training. It also has to do with work attitudes and the willingness to accept a job. I entered the labour market in 1981. That was a crisis year and we were also university-educated. Still, we're just starting to work. Maybe we should dare to say that jobseekers should take another job and then see where they end up later. All in all, that hasn't been a bad thing. The 28 measures must also be implemented; in that respect, I think that Mr Calvo is pointing out a point of pain. The 504 million we can only achieve if we can guarantee the return of the measures. I understand from the Minister of Work that the KBs are largely ready and that the draft laws will be submitted in good time. We should therefore be able to complete the package, together with the budget, so that the return can be achieved. I refer once again to the strange glances I saw in December last year during the discussion in the Chamber of Budget 2018. At the time, I had made the following naughty calculation: if we could increase the rate of activity in our country from 67.5% to the level of the Netherlands, i.e. to 77 percent, we would have the prospect of budget restructuring at one stroke. This is, of course, an exaggerated calculation, but it does show the right path to be taken to achieve our objective, in particular: a sustainable recovery of the budget. This is not through taxes, as some dream of, but by putting people to work, by reducing social security expenditure and by increasing revenue. I can only say, Mrs Kitir, that I would have preferred it to be different from not achieving the budget target in 2019. However, I have been supporting the way the Minister has gone for three years with our group, because it is the only right way forward, namely through job creation, to ensure that we fully respect our commitments towards Europe in the Stability Pact. The challenge for the Minister for the Budget is very simple today: it must above all do what it has promised today for the 2018 and 2019 budgets. We really need to keep them on course carefully. Then we will do a final jump in 2020 in order to achieve the budget in balance in the end. I give another figure to show that stimulating the level of activity is perfectly feasible. The activity rate for people aged between 20 and 24 years is 38% in Belgium. Of course, a lot of these people study. The same level of effectiveness for that target group is 70% in the Netherlands. I think they're studying there, too, just to be clear. We have a great deal of work to do if this is to be done against the Scandinavian countries. So the job deal is very important. I congratulate the government on that. Finally, we are very pleased that the opportunity was created for the fourth player on the telecoms market. Today we pay 20 times more for a mobile gigabyte than in Finland. If that can be converted into a cost reduction of EUR 200 per year per family... I saw yesterday's debate on the subject............................................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, Prime Minister, I think you have put another ambitious package on the table. We are ready to cooperate. Madam Minister for the Budget and Minister for Finance, I look forward to your specific budget figures, which we will be able to discuss in October.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u37	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister and the members of the government for coming this morning to make this presentation. This did not necessarily bring much more than what had already been presented to the press. However, as far as I am concerned, I am rather satisfied because I have received answers which seem very clear to me in relation to the questions I asked the Minister for Budget some two weeks ago in plenary. Following the publication of the Monitoring Committee's report, I asked her whether she intended to make the 2019 fiscal year a "truth exercise" or whether she would continue to use the revenues used so far. I now have a very clear answer: we are not at all in a "truth exercise" but, on the contrary, in the resumption of a whole series of tricks and tricks! I asked you, Minister of Budget, if you would continue to inflate the technical corrections as much as possible so that you could postpone the efforts to be made. We are in the middle of this practice, since we have never seen so many so-called "technical" corrections in a fiscal year! I was wondering if you would continue to claim that cyclical effects were structural in nature. Yes, we are in the middle of this process because, again, against the opinion of the National Bank, against the opinion of the European Commission, you are increasingly claiming that the advance payments of companies are structural in nature. I was wondering if you would continue to speculate on unverifiable recipes or fictitious savings measures. We are in the middle of this practice, especially in view of the amounts that are included in your table under the cover of the fight against tax and social fraud, i.e. 250 million euros, an amount absolutely unverifiable! So, clearly, I consider that rather than a "truth budget", it is a budget which consists of delaying the restoration of budgetary balance. The paradox is that you present this budget as essentially technical, finally. In the budget law manuals, it is said that a budget is a political act. You, the Minister of Budget, are presenting things in such a way that it is increasingly seen as a technical correction! It's technical, and so it's not so worth talking about, and it's almost indisputable since technicality is supposed to be neutral. You had already used the same formula in the debate on the report of the Monitoring Committee, then trying to describe the different methodologies of each one: the government has its own methodology, the National Bank has its own, the Plan Bureau has another, the European Commission does the same... All this is finally very technical, random, and everything is worth it: you can refer to the methodology you want! You repeated today that the report of the Monitoring Committee was a "photo" based on assumptions: a hypothetical photo! All assumptions are finally valid. We can take the one that suits us best! You inflate all the technical corrections on the basis of the assumptions chosen so that in the end you become the champion of relativity, where we would need reliability in the budget forecasts. It is so embarrassing that you yourself have told the press that, no doubt, you would be accused of using the magic wand as it is true that the press had difficulty identifying the 2.6 billion euros to fill. You answered them "no, no, it's not a magic wand" but the measures you present today, through this painting, look very much like it. In this table, which is supposed to achieve the budgetary target of EUR 2.6 billion, there is a maximum of technical corrections including the calculation of the effort to be made. You had already opted for the lowest hypothesis of the Monitoring Committee and you are still seeing it down again thanks to the revision of the starting calculation base of 2017. One might have thought that this recalculation would mitigate the effort to produce in 2020, for example, since you chose a fiscal trajectory that eased the effort made in 2019, to increase it in 2020. In this case, on the basis of a recalculation of the base of departure, you still alleviate the effort to be made in fiscal year 2019. There are many corrections such as those that the Minister of Pensions has told us about in the area of pensions, the volume effects on asylum expenses, etc. In addition, there is this amount for so-called "strategic" investments, which makes it possible to outsource capital expenditure to consider that it does not fit into the calculation of the objective to be achieved. On this point, I ask you – and that is also true for other questions – if you have received the agreement of the European Union to consider that these so-called "strategic" expenses can be subtracted from the effort to be made. I understand that there is a debate, a dialogue in this place, according to the formula that you love. Have you now received a precise response from the European Union to consider that what is contained in the National Pact for Strategic Investments (relatively modest in relation to the medium- and long-term prospects) should no longer be taken into account in the calculation of the objective? This represents a line of EUR 194.6 million, which is not insignificant. As I said, you are assuming the structural nature of the advance payments. This is an amount of 330 million in your table. When we put an end to the technical corrections, the amounts subject to bail from the point of view of Europe and this hypothesis in addition, we see that the effort was finally achieved quickly. It wasn't very difficult, but what is the basis for this increase in the structural nature of the revenues associated with advance payments? What makes you reasonably think that you are right about this, against the opinion of the National Bank and the European Commission? This table also shows important return effects, the famous 500 million linked to the 'jobs deal'. It's nothing but a return effect. That is clearly how it was presented to us. You have been more cautious at some time about return effects, especially when the Prime Minister introduced the tax shift. You said that you did not take the return effects into account to have the assurance of a budgetary control of operations. Here we are no longer in this pattern, but on the contrary in the integration of 500 million of the return effects linked to employment measures. These return effects are also considerable since for 12,500 jobs created, you are planning a recipe of 500 million euros. In the meantime, you could have expected many more: why not 500 000 jobs created? It would have allowed you to reach the budget balance much faster than expected! At one time, concern was expressed about the cost of jobs created by the tax shift. The sums allocated to this were indeed exorbitant in relation to the number of jobs created. Here, one can be surprised by the return effect of the jobs created: with a minimum of jobs created, one has a maximum return effect. Frankly, there is a magical thought here, to repeat the allusion to the magic wand that the Minister of Budget herself had used. Then there are those famous recipes. This totals EUR 250 million. It's not nothing! This is the tenth of the effort to be made. These revenues are linked to the fight against tax and social fraud, without much explanation for the underlying measures. There you go. Behind the apparent technicality of all these corrections and measures, there are in fact choices of ease that do not give much credibility to the budget that you are presenting to us. I find that there are a lot of tricks, or assumptions, to take your term, risky, random, which give this fiscal exercise a pre-electoral character. Behind this technicality, which is not one, we can see that there are choices of ease without real technical reliability. Behind this appearance of technicality, your choices reflect a lot of ideology. This is not necessarily reprehensible to you, but the projects you have announced to us and the options you have chosen really translate a lot of ideology. I would like to highlight a few examples. First of all, the initial assumption of 2.6 billion is a choice that can be considered not to have been endorsed by some members of the Monitoring Committee. It was already the lowest fork. You saw her down. You are making the choice of ease, but you are not going to dwell much on the assumptions that other members of the Monitoring Committee had chosen. You do not hold the more unfavourable assumptions and you do not give much explanation in this regard. Behind this choice of apparently joining the Monitoring Committee, therefore, there is really an option for ease, without much explanation. As a result, we can really ask ourselves the question, which Mr Reynders is pushing to his paroxysm: what is still the purpose of the Monitoring Committee? If it is in order to take up the most favourable elements and free itself from all the reservations it contains, and to correct technically what is, in principle, a technical report, there is a real question to be asked. I think there would be a substantive debate on your use of the Monitoring Committee's report. The second example where you really make ideology is the situation of Belfius. As far as Belfius' stock exchange is concerned, I think you are doing a wrong calculation first technically. You claim that this will be an interesting operation. But in reality, budgetaryly, it is very clear that the economy you are going to make in terms of debt and interest burden - since you are going to allocate a large part of this revenue to debt reduction - is less important than the gain that dividends bring you. In fact, in your budget tables, we find the elements of this observation. In your tables, you speculate on lower spending thanks to lower interest rates, and you speculate on additional income in terms of dividends. This proves that dividends earn more than the economy you hope to do by reducing debt through stock exchange. Technically, the calculation is wrong and is only an ideological choice from which you have not hidden yourself. Yesterday, when you spoke to the press, you made it clear that it is not up to the state or a public authority to assume this role as a banker. For my part, I do not plead for the nationalisation of the banking sector and I believe that economic freedom must be respected, except that in banking, the experience of recent years and even of recent months leads us to prudence. You argued for the return to the pre-banking crisis model where private actors seem best placed to manage banking services. This is, in short, what was briefly reported to the press yesterday. I can understand that you wanted to nuance the point, but this is the logic underlying your choice. The state has nothing to do with a bank and you consider that it must intervene to absorb losses and deal with difficulties but that it must disengage when returning to profits. I believe that you do not take into account the lessons of the banking crisis. Without initiating a caricatural ideological debate, there should be room in the banking sector for a public offer that can be irreproachable in terms of ethics and ethics. In this context, we have recently seen in a Finance Committee that banking agencies are again in default. It can thus be seen that ethics do not always correspond to reality. Can we not imagine, in Belgium, the creation of a banking agency that would be above suspicion, particularly by its public nature? This may avoid behaviour similar to that of private actors. I believe that an organization carrying out public service tasks has its place in the banking landscape by respecting the necessary ethics in the sector. This is an ideological choice that is clear. In connection with this Belfius dossier, I would like to address the ARCO dossier in which we find this ideological and political aspect. Indeed, this issue has become very political. You tell us that there is an agreement and I should be glad that this problem is solved. However, those who imagine that there is an agreement and that the problem is solved must not be deceived because there are still many questions, especially that of Europe. How do you treat her? You're evacuating him a little fast. You explain that you are in dialogue, but you consider, if I understand correctly, that there is no need for a formal agreement from Europe. The European Commissioner said exactly the opposite. Within the majority, we heard somewhat different voices. Do we need a green light from Europe? "No," said the Deputy Prime Minister. "Yes," said a majority group leader. The positions are variable geometry. Yes or no, do you have a Europe agreement? Are you going to get it? To be honest, this is a crucial issue and it places a heavy burden on the reliability of this agreement, not to mention the possible problems of discrimination that could be raised and which have already been raised by some, since not all persons or structures who are prejudiced are necessarily treated in the same way. Thus, challenges and remedies can be expected. Some have already spoken on the subject. Behind this appearance of an agreement, it is clear that there are still many unknowns and that it will probably not take long to realize that this agreement is subject to bail. There is another ideological choice, one related to your decisions on the degressivity of unemployment benefits. In the 'jobs deal', there are certainly interesting things. I imagine that an in-depth analysis will be carried out in a specialised committee. I am prepared to say that there is no doubt about things to be done and that there are certainly steps to be taken. In your 30 measures, you mention interesting points, but you have chosen to set fire to the powders with this approach on the degression of unemployment benefits. You are taking shelter behind the fact that the measure is budgetaryly neutral and is not comparable to measures taken in the past. It may be neutral but it does mean that there will be losers since there will be winners. Indeed, the level of allowances will be revised upwards for the first period, either via the percentage or via the ceiling. There will therefore be a positive effect for the beneficiaries of that period. This means that, since the measure is neutral, there will necessarily be losers. The losers will appear as soon as you implement this increased degression that you announce. Again, you explain and it is a usual choice, that things are very complicated and that they need to be simplified. Technically, it is useful to simplify. On this speech, we can agree, but for the losers, there will be a loss in relation to the current situation. Behind this, there is this ideological choice that you make little or no, one and the other. It is this feeling that, in the end, the unemployed person is a little responsible for his or her situation and that he or she needs to be stimulated and activated. Do you really think that the jobs in need will be able to find a buyer more easily because you are reducing unemployment benefits? I think it's a decoy. Those who will be able to respond to these shortages need training and accompaniment. They do not need a sanction that would penalize them. That's not what's going to work and allow them to get back on their feet. If you meet regularly with people affected by this problem, as many of us do, you will realize that when you return to work, there are many factors other than the level of unemployment benefits. To deny it is to ignore the reality experienced by the people concerned and to make an ideological choice. You are not far from thinking that the unemployed are paid to do nothing and that if they are paid a little less, they will be more motivated to work. This approach is a little nauseous. Finally, the last example of these ideological choices you are putting forward is the fourth telephone operator. The Deputy Prime Minister concerned does not hide from his very ideological approach. It is a choice of economic liberalism. Putting competition into play will reduce prices. In a way, it's not completely wrong. This approach can be heard, except that in this area there is not only the market logic at stake. We have a frustration in this area: competing for lower prices, why not, but other parameters, other imperatives must also be taken into account, including territorial coverage. Beyond this desire to lower prices, is there a genuine willingness to take into account areas that are less well served in mobile telephony, especially in rural areas? It is also a real issue, which is not limited to this purely liberal approach to pricing via competition. Will you take into account the investment problem? The CEO of Proximus points out how difficult this approach is for operators to deal with the investment and employment challenge. You refer this CEO a little easily to these studies, telling her that she does not have to contest the choice of the majority shareholder. You are also holding a double speech about the management of public structures and public enterprises. At Belfius, when you agree, you praise the quality of management. At Proximus, when the point is a little more critical, you consider that it is necessary to circulate, there is nothing to see, and that the majority shareholder is best placed to make the best decisions. Mr President, I consider that on a budgetary level, this 2019 project is characterised by a lot of relativity and very little reliability. This budget is more hypothetical than ever. It is therefore very random and exposes us to disillusioning tomorrows, but it will probably be for the next government. Politically, this budget is full of ideological choices. Each of the parties in the majority will probably be content with getting a trophy, but that doesn't necessarily satisfy us. Rather, it gives the impression that this budget has a pre-electoral character. It's your choice, and we don't approve of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u38	Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, every political agreement and every budget figure has its own truth. That is now, we hear, no different. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the governor of the National Bank who came to the Chamber two months ago. Like any governor of the National Bank, he beat and anointed. The governor raised positive points about our competitiveness, about employment, about the increase in the purchasing power of ordinary people. He also linked it to government policy. But he also talked about challenges, such as the labour market, such as our productivity that requires investment, and a continuation of budgetary reform. When we look at this agreement and compare it with the challenges the Governor of the National Bank mentioned a few weeks ago, we see that it is in line with each other. I would like to comment on what some Members have said here, including the important challenge of labour shortages and the labour market deal. The fact that there are 28 measures is, of course, due to the fact that there has been consultation with the social partners who have put forward suggestions that we have accepted. It also has to do with the fact that there has been consultation with the Regions and that the Regions have made suggestions that we have taken over. Sometimes people say there's not much news. I read that. If one prepares something well, there is indeed a lot in the pipeline. But I'd rather have well prepared things than improvised, supposedly new things. Some numbers don't lie. If there are 134 000 vacancies, and if, as the Prime Minister said in his State of the Union last year, we are world champions in job vacancies, but there are 345 000 unemployed, as well as hundreds of thousands of people who are not unemployed but who do not have a job, then we must be able to lead those unemployed to those vacancies. There is a world of difference between the last years of the last century and the first years of this century, and the most recent years. Mr Van Mechelen just mentioned his childhood. We have seen years of rising unemployment and a declining number of jobs. We have been experiencing the opposite for years now, and we will see it in the years to come. Of course, this will require a different labour market policy. Of course, we must adapt to that reality. I just heard people say that they are cowardly because there are municipal elections in Antwerp. I must say that there are also municipal elections from Veurne to Kinrooi and from Aarlen to Tournai.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u39	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u40	Although you may not have the exact details of the regulation, its contours are obvious. It is clear that it is not about the people who are unemployed today but about the future unemployed. If they lose their jobs, they'll know what they're up to in advance. That goes without saying. The contours are clear. It goes without saying that there is no change in the third period. The contours are also clear as regards the first period. People who lose their jobs tomorrow are gonna get more. It is true that the details of the method of calculation have not yet been established. Does it happen through a ceiling or a percentage? Mr Minister for Labour and Employment, it is quite clear that in this respect it is important that the lowest wages are taken into account. This government has already drawn this line with many measures over the years. I assume it's being pulled through. It is true that we are accelerating the degressivity in the second period. That's a deal. However, it has also been agreed that this is not a reorganisation operation. It's a budget-neutral operation, an activation operation. I just heard Mr Kitir screaming out her so-called anger. Mrs Kitir, there has always been degressivity in unemployment benefits. In fact, it was strengthened in the previous legislature. That was a clean-up operation, that wasn't a budget-neutral operation. Then you weren't angry, then you approved. So let me say that I think I have to make some sense of your anger. There has also been a very long talk here about powers that we have not had since the sixth state reform. Supporting the unemployed, training the unemployed, even sanctioning the unemployed are the powers of the Regions. It goes without saying that there is consultation and that they play an important role in this, together with the social partners. That's why we aim for training and guidance. Then I'm talking about the human image they were just talking about. Our human image is that everyone has talent, whether they have a job or not. They are talented and they should and should be maximized. There's nothing wrong with asking people for commitment. They should also be given opportunities, and if they seize them, they should be rewarded for that. Finally, as far as the contours are concerned. The degressivity over the period, I repeat, is budget-neutral. It can be avoided when undergoing training for bottleneck occupations. We've been so full-bodied about this, among other things, Carrefour. No one wanted people of 56 to lose their jobs, especially not Carrefour's servants and employees. However, any disadvantage can have its advantage. The advantage here is that there has still been consultation and that there have been additional fees for training for bottleneck occupations. We have learned lessons from this in order to generalise them in the future. That has to do with human image and maximizing talent. Ladies and gentlemen, you will not upset me by the fact that I am also talking about ARCO. The Prime Minister referred to agreements in the previous governments that we also made with this government in its formation. We reconfirmed them, including last year, and implement them. Those who will be driving home by train, I suggest that they tell their conductor that the agreements that have now been made have never been so concrete and clear about who is funding what and who gets what. There are legal doubts about any measure taken by a government. We live in a rule of law. Europe has its powers, the Constitutional Court has its powers, the Council of State has its powers. That's about every measure we take. In this legislature, too, we have already taken many measures in other matters, in which I heard the opposition fulminate that they would not pass the test. I remember, for example, the securities tax that would be suspended. The Constitutional Court did not do that. Here too, of course, we are living in the rule of law. Colleagues, I note one constant fact, in particular that those who express these legal doubts are often the ones, especially in this house, who do not want to see this deal, the compensation for the ARCO savers either. From the beginning they were opponents and therefore continue to spread uncertainty, including for political reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u41	The N-VA and the Open Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u42	And Green, too, for years. You know, every man's truth and every man's legal truth. I confess to color in that respect too. I am more likely to believe the legal position that supports this agreement. Prime Minister, you have that at your disposal. Your government has received advice from top lawyers, which shows that it is not state aid. Your government has received opinions stating that this should not be notified to Europe. There is also another legal position, it seems, over the last few hours. It goes without saying that we are talking about this with Europe. We're not going to provoke Europe, are we? We are going to discuss this and discuss it with Europe, which we have been doing for months with regard to the contours of this agreement. It is important and good that this case was linked to Belfius and remains linked to Belfius and the privatisation operation, all the more so since that privatisation operation will be even more successful if ARCO's millstone can be lifted. Colleagues, we quickly forget our history, our memory is limited because we are faced with an oversupply of information. I would like to return to the period 2007-2008. Europe and the European Central Bank then begged our country to save banks. We then twisted people's arms to invest in a bank, which was neither their ambition, nor their intention, nor their desire. At that time, there were agreements on guarantees for ordinary people. We have dealt with this. We wish to honour that in one way or another. Mr President, I would like to return to the budget and the comments that have been made on it. Yes, at the start of this legislature, we set out a budgetary path with a budget balance at the end of the legislature. That is not what we have achieved. This is not the first government to have failed to achieve the same objective. It was the same with the previous government. We had made agreements with Europe and we did not achieve them. At that time, there were mitigating circumstances, namely the European crisis and a economic situation that was lower than predicted. We have now also been confronted with issues such as the security crisis and the migration crisis, which have required other expenditure. We have made choices for the tax shift, which is indeed not budget-neutral, Mrs Kitir. This is also said by the majority and the committee chairman, but we have made this choice for the benefit of those with the lowest wages. We have also opted, among other things, for more expenditure in the welfare envelope. Those are reasons why we didn't make it to the path. We have now set out this path, together with other governments, also sub-governments that are otherwise composed, by 2020. Mr President, I hear that this is a government or a majority of shareholders or shareholders. On the course that was drawn out and on the course that will be drawn out in the coming year, I see a tax shift, which we continue, for the benefit of the lowest wages, and 200 000 additional jobs. The government was accused of being far too optimistic in presenting the budget figures. I just heard the employment figures. We score better than the Federal Planning Agency anticipated. The government has even been too pessimistic in terms of employment rates, Prime Minister. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u43	In any case, we cannot deny that the figures are more than reasonable. If we spend more in the welfare envelope than in the previous legislature and if we carry out reforms on corporate taxation which are much more in favour of SMEs and sole proprietorships than of multinationals, then I believe that this government is indeed a government for the shareholders of the NV Belgium, the ordinary people who give the best of themselves every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u44	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten has explicitly referred to opinions which the government has sought on the ARCO solution. I dare to suspect that these exist as well. I therefore invite the Prime Minister to make these opinions available to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u45	The government will be able to answer that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u46	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presentation of this new summer agreement. You will not be surprised to hear that for environmentalists it is a real disappointment. Every year, it's the same rehearsal. Last year, the Tomorrowland Agreement represented the same sense of disappointment for us. The major absentees are the environment, mobility, air quality, social justice or tax justice. For us, these elements are fundamental in terms of political vision. Making a budget means making political choices. Here, we realize that there are important differences. The missing elements are fundamental and it is difficult to judge. I would like to go back to a number of points. As far as the budget is concerned, I don't know what the brand of your magic wand is, or even if you're part of the Copperfield or Garcimore family. Over the years, we have to realize that there are more and more "tricks" used to achieve a balance. The first of these is the effort to be made. According to the tables that are proposed to us today, you have made an effort of 2.6 billion euros. This amount is questioned by many independent institutions. What is the effort for future generations? That's the question! We are probably closer to 4 billion than 2.6 billion, if we believe all the actors who have done independent analyses on the subject. For us, this is the most important problem in relation to this budget. The effort to be made is not clear and is, in our view, a real factor of uncertainty. I will not go back to the technical corrections, which are increasing from year to year. The important point for us, as you know, is the fight against tax fraud. It is a pillar of tax and social justice. Indeed, we see that the amounts are increasing. We're $150 million for the painting we received this morning. Minister of Finance, what is behind this amount? What will you put in place in terms of measures, recruitment, tools to increase return, the fight against tax fraud, particularly on a large scale? I would point out that the analysis of tax fraud in Belgium tells us of the total amounts of EUR 20 billion per year that are exempt from tax, therefore from State financing? So there is still a lot of work to be done in this area. I also wanted to go back to the return effects that you mentioned to the tune of €505 million compared to the 'jobs deal'. Mr Peeters, I listened to your explanation during the presentation. I am not going to go back to creating 12,500 jobs. That's not what I think is the most perplexing thing about reasoning. The most intriguing is the 40,400 euros you think are the average that comes back per job created. I will not go back to the questions already asked on this subject but just one element: do you also have an empirical basis for basing yourself on this? Jobs have indeed been created since the beginning of the legislature; there are 190,000 jobs. So we already have an opportunity to see the impact these jobs have had. What return effects do they produce? Do you have this information? This amount of €40,400 actually seems exaggerated, too optimistic. So we would like to see, and everyone can have their assumptions, whether today's calculation is based on reality. The next point is also very important to us: the 'jobs deal'. The Ecolo-Groen Group pays particular attention not only to job creation, but above all to the creation of sustainable jobs created in our regions. There is no doubt that the important problem of jobs in short supply is mobilising us enormously. We have made a lot of proposals in relation to that. Let us take at random the Tandem plan, which we tabled under the previous legislature, to pass the torch of a person who would reduce his working time at the end of his career so that a new worker could be hired in a company. As my colleague Kristof Calvo said, the important thing for us is to train, encourage and accompany. Punir, for us, is not an option! And this is really fundamental, in any case in terms of choice of society. That is why all that concerns encouragement, training, support – and there are elements in relation to this in the 'jobs deal' – we see it in a positive way. We are waiting for the texts. But all that is to facilitate mobility, to help workers find employment and to reconvert into new sectors of the future and jobs that are in short supply is important. It is really something that we do not understand to be punished by an increased degressivity of unemployment benefits. I don't understand! I do not understand, in an economic context as we know it today, that punishing, reducing allowances is an answer to such a problem. I think this is an ideological measure on your part! And why do I say that? Because I would like to bring the debate on a certain "objectivation". We have obviously prepared today's meeting. Among all the international studies on this subject, namely the link between the reduction of unemployment benefits and the return to the labour market, none of them conclude positively in relation to this. And I have some here. These international studies can always be called into question, but I will mention the OECD and the European Commission – so it was not the Ecolo study centre, nor Groen, that provided these studies. The 2014 edition of the European Commission's Annual Report on Employment and Social Development in Europe provides an overview of the studies on the impact of different types of unemployment insurance. On the likelihood of reintegration into the labour market, there does not appear to be a negative correlation between the level of benefits and the chances of exiting unemployment in order to gain access to the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u47	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u48	This is quite the subject: the level of allowances... Another study, carried out in Oxford, England, shows that every pound in sterling that is reduced in relation to all the aids – whether in terms of housing, subsistence or all the allowances – that every pound in sterling of income cut for people looking for work represents 2% less than the actual chance of finding one! I can provide you with all these studies. We can have an objective debate. What I want to do here is to objectiveize this debate. It's always easy to accuse each other of making ideology, but I think you're doing ideology here. There is no study showing that pushing people towards more hardship and insecurity brings them closer to the labour market. That is a deep conviction, we do not think that is the case. It is important to be able to express it. I wanted to highlight other figures as well. Degression has already existed since 2012. The percentage of unemployed people living below the poverty line rose from 43.2% in 2014 to 49% in 2017. For the population, this rate has also increased, unfortunately, from 14.6 per cent to 15.3 per cent. What does that mean? Clearly, since the introduction of the decline in unemployment benefits that has existed since the Di Rupo government, there has been an increase in the poverty rate among the unemployed. This is the actual quantified impact. In comparison to the cohabiting package, which is now less than the social integration income, do you confirm, Minister, that no period of time, that no package will pass under this social integration income (RIS)? Finally, and the Ecolo have been asking for it for a long time, do you intend to increase this co-habitation package at the RIS level since we know that some co-habitants are below this minimum level of income? The next point in relation to the 'jobs deal' which we are very concerned about, and we have had very little talk about this this morning, concerns the service of general interest for long-term job seekers. We oppose such a measure as a matter of principle. Again, it is felt that job seekers should be encouraged, trained and accompanied to return them to employment, which is also a concern for us. And not punish them or bring them to work that can be considered forced. In the presentation we received, how many days a week do you think you are putting this system in place? In 2014, the government planned two days a week. I wanted to know if you were going to keep the same bases. Would the persons who would be put into service of general interest also benefit from the freezing of degression? Or would degression be maintained for these people? That is my question about the service of general interest. The last point I would like to make concerns the agreement announced in relation to Belfius. You know our position. I will therefore not repeat what my colleague Georges Gilkinet has clearly detailed in the discussions in the Committee on Finance. However, we do not understand why Dexia, which has become a 100% public bank, has not been transformed into a public tool that uses long-term investments, in the general interest, and in particular investments for the real economy such as our SMEs and TPEs. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u49	Of course, but like a classic bank instead of making it a real tool. There are examples in other countries. KfW in Germany is a public bank with a different purpose. As soon as a bank enters the stock exchange, it is subject to other rules and must face speculation from each other and operations that do not have a policy of general interest or support for the real economy. This is a fundamental issue for us. By participating, even in a minority shareholding, you are diverting a beautiful tool from a globalized economic system that has caused difficulties during the banking crisis. We believe that this is a missed opportunity. I gave you the example in Germany of the KfW bank, but I can also quote you from the Caisse des dépôts in France. These are 100% public tools whose mission is to invest in the long term and in the real economy without worrying about the short-term speculation of foreign funds that can invest in the stock market. This is what we want to avoid and what we would have done, if we were in charge, with Belfius. This is a true vision of society that is opposed to the opportunity represented by a completely public bank like Belfius.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u50	Mr President, I do not normally have a problem with you following the size of the political groups not when referring to the speakers, but two statements from the same group, before the two main parties to the government speak, I think that is a strange order. It will be a good tradition for the government to present a package of measures and a balanced agreement around Tomorrowland. Step by step, this agreement restores the finances, and in fact the entire economy, of the decades of socialist maladministration that we have known. Each year, the same little stranglehold of the opposition appears, namely that the government counts itself rich, that the figures are wrong, that money has disappeared, or that people's pockets are sought, and that there is magic. They were talking about David Copperfield. Last year they talked about hocus pocus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u51	Hocus pocus was the year before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u52	The aim of this is, of course, to get headlines or television quotes, and to put the government in the worst possible light. If the numbers can be checked afterwards, we're two years away, and we don't crow at them anymore. Then no one is interested in what was said two years earlier. They're only shooting at details. Mr Calvo always says that he is not a budget fetishist, but he does have a fetish, namely the spell in the budget. That is why I have been looking for the discussions of the past few years. The figures that we can currently check relate to the 2017 budget. At that time it was stated in the Finance Committee that the budget was hocus pocus, that the estimates were far too optimistic, that they were rash decisions that limit political errors that are made when the budget is drawn up, that the buffer of one billion will not be enough, etc. We now find that the final result is better than what was then budgeted. Let us look back at the whole legislature. In 2015 we were close to the result that was budgeted. In 2016, we were flagrantly wrong. That was the year of the attacks and the asylum crisis. These are, of course, events that cannot be foreseen. 2017 was better than budgeted. In short, I have more confidence in the budgetary forecasts made by this government than in the comments made by the opposition every year. I sometimes hear huge inconsistencies in the criticism. It makes sense that there's criticism, but sometimes it's really weird. Just now, Mr Kitir said in one sentence that we are not saving enough, but she mentioned a lot of measures that have saved us. I don't know. If we... I've lost my touch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u53	However, we have had you practiced long enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u54	No problem, it's okay. Do you have any quotes on the municipal elections in Antwerp? Then we can treat it. What kind of cinema is that here!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klaps has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u56	The little wheel about the tax shift also comes up again. I can't help but be surprised that they're getting away with it. What's the tax shift saying? That there is more money in the pockets of citizens today, especially those with the lowest wages. The so-called social opposition should welcome this. EUR 1 752 net per year, for someone with a salary of EUR 1 500. That's huge. Yes, a number of invoices have increased. Of course, it's about a shift. But the net result for those people is good. The fact that the opposition continues to say that taxes are increasing, of course, that is not true. That can't be right. One doesn't match the other. I'm getting to the labor deal. It is indeed important that we do this. The problem, of course, is that the government creates too many jobs. We can't get them filled out anymore. The last time we went through this was in the '60s, I think. Then there was 2 % unemployment. Today it's a lot higher. There is no sensible explanation to explain that there are so many vacancies today that do not even require a qualification, experience or diploma and we will not be able to fill them. Well, then we'll have to figure out why. Then we will have to motivate people to follow those training courses and take those jobs. Mrs. Kitir, it's true that someone who loses his job is worried. That can happen to anyone and that is not a pleasant experience, but this government has created new jobs for those people. Masses of jobs are created day after day. That has been different in previous legislatures. You cited Genk's example. The unemployment rate in Genk is lower today than when Ford Genk was still open. That is the best proof that this government's policy is working. We can't get all the vacancies filled out anymore. So, yeah, we're gonna have to keep increasing the activity rate. We often hear criticism about our low pensions. Our pensions are scandalously low. We have already taken steps, but we still have a lot of work to do. We will only be able to do so if that level of activity continues to rise. Indeed, we are far from being at the level of the Netherlands, but we must try to evolve towards it, especially with the jobs and the offer that exists today. Colleagues, Belfius can finally move towards the fair. That is a good thing. I don't think it's the government's job to play banker. In the past, it has been proven that a bank led by governments and civil society has created the greatest possible mess we have experienced. I think the IPO is a good thing. I am always surprised that Ecolo-Groen colleagues think that if a bank is privatised at 30%, then suddenly its business model with which it makes a profit will no longer be implemented. The funding of local projects is just their strength. They're the market leader in that. They make a profit with that. Why the hell would they stop doing that when they're in private hands? There is no logical reasoning for this. At this stage, there is only 30%. The government remains a majority shareholder. That doom statue remains bizarre, especially when we know Dexia's history. I would like to reassure Mr Verherstraeten. We would very much like a solution to be found for ARCO investors. We would really like that, for my part, at 100 %. I admit I'd rather have that damage paid in full by the person who conned these people. That will not happen, however. There's a contribution. Soit, it's a start. As with any measure, we will have to wait and see whether it will remain legal. As you rightly say, this applies to any measure. I believe that it is necessary to discuss this with Europe, but with the existing good contacts with the European Commission, I am confident in the reasoning that you are building up there. We'll see. I am certainly very pleased that the reasoning has now changed: we need to bring Belfius to the market before we can continue with ARCO. There is another contradiction in the story of colleagues Calvo and Vanden Burre. For one, it can't be fast enough, for the other, it can't be done. If there's gonna be a solution, she's gonna have to be funded. Mr Calvo, I understand that you never worry about how invoices are to be paid, but other people do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u57	Mr President, thank you. You know I'll be brief because we've been talking for three hours. I'm going back to a few fundamentals. At the end of this budget work, we realize that progress is being made in fiscal consolidation. There is progress in reducing debt. Progress is being made in stimulating investment. We are making progress in creating jobs, all by reducing the tax burden, increasing purchasing power and strengthening our economy and competitiveness. It's really the virtuous circle! Indeed, the government strengthens this virtuous circle year after year. The opposition defends unemployment benefits. She's right, but we're defending job creation. We're not defending descent into poverty. That is why we are defending the policy of getting out of poverty. There is therefore coherence and strengthening of government policy. There is a whole series of comments on numbers, magic wands, etc. But, as my colleague Klaps has said, what has to be seen after all is the results and the results always confirm the options that have been put forward. The results always confirm that there is good budgetary monitoring and that we are able to do what we said. At the MR level, we are really satisfied with the exercise that has been put in place. Of course, we are encouraged to find this solution that was announced for ARCO. We're happy to see a fourth operator arrive who will actually lower prices and compete. Frankly, in recalling the fundamentals, Mr.President, I think the government can now respond and confirm.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u58	Mr President, I was bouncing on your statements informing us of Mr Reynders' comments. I would like to have the opinion and position of the Prime Minister. Mr Reynders considers in De Standaard that we can get rid of the Monitoring Committee. I would like to know if the Prime Minister disavows Minister Reynders on this specific point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u59	Mr President, I would like to endorse Mr Laaouej's statement. In the meantime, it is no longer a question of Minister Reynders, but also Minister Jambon has explicitly endorsed that proposal from his colleague Reynders. I said just now, laughing, that the Monitoring Committee is being abolished. Then it was a joke and fifteen minutes later it really turns out to be the government's plan. Like Mr Laaouej, I would like to invite the Prime Minister to say something about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u60	A lot has been said. It will be difficult to answer all the questions, but the government has to divide up the work through the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u61	Mr President, I will try to focus on the political questions that are being made and to shed some light on them. Some questions are relevant and legitimate in view of the fact that the details of the points have not yet been transmitted, although in the introduction attempts have been made to present some elements. The first important issue concerns the situation of Belfius and a solution for ARCO. As far as Belfius is concerned, we take full responsibility. I'm gonna go back in history. A few years ago, the Belgian Government accepted its responsibility in the context of the financial crisis. I confirm what I said yesterday, Mr Dispa: in principle it is not the role of the State to manage a bank in the long term. There can be a difference of opinion on this. For Ecolo-Green it may be the role of the State to manage a bank. This concerns part of the participation, i.e. 30%. Indeed, we will not completely privatise the bank at once. We are very satisfied with the results achieved in recent years thanks to the good management management of Belfius. Opening Belfius to private participation is an opportunity to improve the strength of Belfius in the future. This is our goal: to do even better. On the same subject, it is necessary to be very ill-informed or to have been very inattentive since the financial crisis for not having understood that, as a public shareholder or not, there are Belgian and European banking and financial supervision rules which must apply. Moreover, I find it very shocking, and even contemptuous, for those who work for Belfius on a daily basis, to give the impression that this bank would not be concentrated in the real economy. Belfius is a bank that stimulates, develops the real economy, enables investments and jobs to be made. This is the result of bad faith or particularly mediocre and limited information on such an important subject! The goal, with Belfius, is to have an effect on the debt. The budget is a deficit on the one hand and a debt on the other. The aim of this participation achievement is to help accelerate debt relief. I hear the reasoning about dividends. Mr Dispa, it must have escaped you, but when we lower the debt, we pay less interest to the banks and we therefore obtain additional resources for public services for economic recovery and for supporting what forms the bulk of public action! A detail must have obviously escaped you in your reasoning! I repeat, we want to stimulate investment, which is why some of the yield will have to be spent on debt relief, another to really stimulate strategic investments in the future, in the digital agenda, in climate change and energy transformation – that has not escaped us at all, there are very concrete projects in this area – and in mobility. I come to a very important point. In order to hope for a positive story and a higher return, as far as Belfius is concerned, a solution for ARCO is very useful, which makes the operation more attractive. It's a basic idea in our reasoning. Some forget that important element in the story. There is therefore a link between an IPO for Belfius and a solution for ARCO. We have worked hard in recent months, with the European Commission, in an open dialogue, to understand clearly what the advantages and disadvantages of potential solutions are at the legal level. We have made these efforts of dialogue with the European Commission. I want to be precise because, in the last few hours, some messages have been interpreted ambiguously. It is very clear that our decision is not to formally request, through notification, an agreement from the European Commission, but to continue the dialogue with it. This is the shade, the difference. Why did you make that decision? Because one of the arguments against us in previous months was the notion of state aid under European law. First parameter: ARCO has been liquidated. The second parameter is that the solution envisaged today is for natural persons and not legal persons. This is an element that seems to narrow down possible criticisms in relation to the concept of State aid. Third parameter: we have already made initial informal contacts with the European Commission since the announcement of the decision to announce this wish to explain what is on the table, to explain the concrete modalities of the decision that is being considered. There's a precise timing. There is an agreement on a potential distribution of contributions, to set up a fund. At the end of October, there will be a public mechanism for compensation. We will work on this in the coming days and weeks and continue the dialogue with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u62	What if there's no agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u63	I mean, with the government as a whole, as we have done in the past, for example in the context of the BNP Paribas IPO, to ensure that decisions are made. When the time comes, the government will have to make decisions on the matter. When you launch an OPI, there's a starting point. When we start a process, we prepare it with our advisors and specialized banks. Depending on the process, we will return in the coming weeks or months to assess, when the time comes, the decisions that are taken on both issues. That is the approach. I know that you are usually pessimistic, rather fatalistic – it is your nature in the opposition – while we are optimistic. We launch the operations and we intend to make decisions on the issues. The second fundamental point is the budget. As far as the budget is concerned, I always try to stay very calm and zen, even after hearing some very idiotic things at the last committee meeting. I apologize for that expression. I remember that we had a lot of criticism from the opposition at the start of the government. We were a austerity government. We absolutely wanted, it was said in the opposition, a balance at any price in 2018. It was austerity. We were going to hunt down the weakest and weakest. Today, four years later, 190,000 jobs were created and purchasing power was restored. And we are told that it is scandalous that we have not reached balance. We need to know what we want: either austerity or support what we actually do, i.e. fiscal consolidation, economic recovery and support for the most fragile. I call for a minimum of consistency, consequence and memory in this regard. Then I come to another important point, which one of my colleagues has rightly raised. Every budgetary exercise is a prediction and a political choice, it is indeed an estimate. With every initial budget I hear a festival of slogans and caricatures, from hocus pocus to Copperfield. However, the realizations are to a large extent in accordance with our predictions each time. That was also the case with the 2018 budget. We didn't have to make great efforts or engage in major discussions to put the 2018 budget in order because our initial 2018 budget was in order and on track. We mainly worked on 2019 because indeed, we had just seen in the way of considering a number of initial assumptions on the subject. Finally, to those who give us great lessons from this, I would like to remind you once again that, since the financial crisis, Belgian debt has increased steadily, becoming a dramatic ball for future generations. Dear friends of Ecolo-Groen, we are very concerned about future generations. We are the first government that, after the financial crisis, not only halts the increase in debt but also triggers a fall from 108 to 107 per cent towards 100 per cent of GDP. We will probably be below 100% of GDP at the end of this legislature. That is indeed to take into account future generations and respect them more than with the somewhat senseless reasoning for the future that I have heard on the subject. The deficit is already divided by three. It's a fact. According to our forecasts, it should even be divided by 3.7 before the end of this legislature. We'd be around -0.6. That's the goal, knowing we're from -3.1. So, with the great lessons of fiscal exemplarity that I receive from those who have weighed down the debt and who have not been able to absorb the deficit other than by battling with taxes, I think you are wrongly placed on the subject. We are carrying out this operation by lowering tax pressure and parafiscal pressure. Let me now turn to a few specific and pertinent questions. Firstly, the job deal is worth 505 million euros. One can criticise this, but it is a cautious analysis, based on scientific arguments. We will have the opportunity to give more details on this. We have taken into account the reality, the average yield for each job created. Why 12,500 jobs? Because there are 130,000 jobs that are not occupied in jobs that are currently in short supply; 12,500 jobs is a rather conservative analysis given this potential for jobs that could be filled. The number of 12,500 jobs would also bring us, on the basis of forecasts, to the same level of job creation as we have seen in previous years - last year and before. This is therefore a very conservative political and forecasting analysis, which we think is very realistic, not because we hope jobs will fall from the sky but mainly because we are taking steps to stimulate the ability to move towards jobs that are in short supply. Another pertinent point, Mr Laaouej, concerns the Monitoring Committee and the health care measures of EUR 500 million in 2019. The proceeds of these measures were not included in the calculation for the EUR 2.6 billion, but added to that. We have also taken this reality into account in our exercise. In short, we have done a serious and serious exercise to ensure that expenditure is under maximum control next year. It is also a point that will be further elaborated in the context of budgetary work, when the time comes. As far as advance payments are concerned, it is true that there is a debate. There is a debate with the European Commission, not with the National Bank. However, we have taken into account the reports of the National Bank in this regard. The European Commission does not, a priori, take account of the structural impact of the advance payments. We believe that there is a structural effect and will have a dialogue with the European Commission on this. What we have done in this area is very rational. We are criticized here for simply putting an amount on the revenue from the fight against tax fraud. That is not the case. We have taken three clear measures in this regard, and you will be given more details later. I'm talking about a third big point, quickly. You have asked me about the F-16s and I am replying to you as I have done at least ten times in the last few weeks in Parliament or at press conferences. There is a RfGP procedure, proposals made by France and a debate on the extension of the F-16. These debates have taken place at considerable length in the Defence Committee and there is a procedural timing. One of the offers is valid until October, another until January 2019. We will take into account the timing of the proceedings and, when the time comes, we will make decisions. However, admit that this debate has no connection to the 2019 budget, nor in the short term direct link to the 'jobs deal'. It was therefore reasonable to make a coherent package of decisions on the subject. Now I'm going to the 'jobs deal'. I am rather amazed at what I have heard from some on the subject. This is for the first time in many years a huge exercise with a positive story. It's not a criminal story, as far as we're concerned. That makes a big difference to the past. We, Mrs Kitir, have learned lessons from the past I can give you a little more information on that. In this legislature, under the current Minister of Work, 190 000 jobs have been created. Under this government, an additional monthly wage has been achieved through the tax shift for the low-wage and middle-wage workers, a thirteenth month as it were. You can always come back with electricity. According to Test-Achats, the average impact on the invoice is about 100 or 150 euros per year. The gain for low wages is 1,500 euros per year. That makes a difference from one to ten. Your reasoning on purchasing power does not in any way correspond to the reality of the reasonings of the European Commission, the Office of the Plan or the National Bank. Mrs Kitir, it is not enough to be arrogant to turn lies into truths. I am particularly shocked by your abominable attack. What's the difference with the past, Ms. Kitir? There's a very big difference. What was the situation of job creation in the previous legislature, under a minister of your party? What's the truth? Under the previous government, 27,000 jobs have disappeared! 27 000 jobs have disappeared in the private sector. We have created 190 000! In the previous legislature, 37 000 people were excluded from unemployment in a restructuring operation, in a budgetary operation, without taking positive measures in terms of training or encouragement. I am angry because you are not intellectually honest enough to acknowledge the progress made in this legislature. You chose the technique of lying and caricature! This is not in line with my philosophy of political debate! I would add that the welfare envelope has been fully mobilized, which makes a big difference to the past. All the lowest pension or disability benefits were noted, more so than in the previous legislature. I'm very modest. I am not in a process that aims to caricature what has been done in the past. I simply note that the great difference between Degressivity was decided in the government agreement of the previous legislature in a budgetary operation to achieve savings in the budget of unemployment benefits. This is a result of the previous legislature! I repeat here the strong principles of this government: firstly, we are increasing at the beginning; secondly, we are using the degression which is accompanied by positive incentives to move towards jobs in need, so that we can really train; thirdly, we are not lowering the lump sum amounts for the third period, which is also a very important element. Mrs Kitir, I think on such a subject you should be either a little more intellectually honest or a little more modest than you have been! I believe that the demonstration that has been made is not a very reasonable demonstration. Finally, on the question of the investment pact, we do have contacts at European level on this issue. It is our intention, however, to use as much flexibility as possible at European level. We have a mixed agreement with the Länder to promote this together at European level. We've had a lot of meetings to discuss this. We also want to use the budgetary exercise as a momentum to re-interpret this. I would add that, in the budget table, we take up only part of the amounts earmarked for investments, which will be presented within the framework of the flexibility desired on the subject. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the main point. I conclude by saying that we are fully convinced that economic and social reforms must continue until the last day of this Parliament. We believe that the best fiscal consolidation is job creation, investment. This is the most sustainable sanitation. When we compare with countries that are more fiscally efficient, it is the countries that have a higher rate of activity than we do. It's a key point. We believe that we must use the various levers and also dialogue with the Regions to strengthen this dynamic. It is in this spirit that we will continue to work throughout the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u64	Even though the Prime Minister has answered all the questions, since I have been so targeted by some, I should like to make a few points. Firstly, I hope that everyone and certainly the more left-wing parties, if they still exist, will assume that we are going to full employment. I said that full employment should be possible by 2025. Technically, it means that unemployment is falling at 3%. That's what we're all striving for. Some regions are already heading for this in a straight line, as they already have a unemployment rate of just 4.4 %. Indeed, we are at a historically low record on the number of job seekers and are still trying to improve it. I fully agree with what the Prime Minister said, and I repeat my statement in plenary last week: it must be dared to say the truth, namely that some parties used to defend the opposite of what they advocate here. The previous Minister of Work said in 2012 that jobseekers should be put to work more quickly, and rightly so, through increased degressivity. I will repeat my predecessor's quote, as you apparently didn't hear it last week: "I don't like blabbing very much. People need to get a job and keep trying. And yes, that may fail once, but then it is a matter of finding other means and ways. I don't like fatality that rules our society. We cannot just put unemployed people in the corner and just give them money without helping them move forward. Then you get sour people, who have no family or future because of lack of money." If, in the previous legislature, we have reduced degressivity more strongly, with the argument of encouraging people, then we should not be reproached here, as you have done. Either you're suffering from amnesia, or you're in bad faith by making forms here. Your policy in the previous government was very clear. I can also refer to the government agreement and the remarks made by the Prime Minister, among others, that accelerated degressivity will be an instrument for creating jobs, which, fortunately, we are doing. Secondly, during this parliamentary term, we increased the minimum benefits considerably. I have an overview, which I would like to share with you, which shows that we have increased all the minimum benefits. As the Prime Minister has said, we have already allocated 2 billion in this legislative period through the welfare envelope for its implementation. As far as degressivity is concerned, I agree with the need for an objective assessment of this instrument. We must indeed take account of national and international studies. We must have a debate on this. I have no problem with that, but on the one hand we cannot say that we need to prepare this type of policy thoroughly and look at studies and, on the other hand, ask why it is not ready today and why we have to wait until November. It's either one or the other. I am in favour of looking quietly at the issue of degressivity, in all objectivity, and of ensuring that we take steps to achieve activation benefits. As far as community services are concerned, either one is not in good faith, or one is trying to make some fuzz. Firstly, the Community services are a competence of the Regions. In the past, I have already asked the regional ministers how they would deal with them. Some ministers do not consider them necessary; others do not share this view. In any case, we are making it possible for Community services at federal level to be completed by the Regions. Secondly, Community services are well-defined in the coalition agreement, which must be considered in the context of a journey to work. The regions have the possibility to freeze the degressivity when using it themselves. Degressivity can also be stopped, as has been said earlier. I believe that we will achieve jobs effectively in this way. We were asked how we made the calculation. We have been very careful, as has just been shown. We have left from a median gross wage of 3 300 euros per month. On an annual basis, this means an annual wage of around EUR 46 000. The State's income is then reflected in the personal income tax, 34.2%, and in employers' social security contributions, 25%, and employees, 13.9%. There are fewer expenses at the RVA and more revenues at the RSZ. That calculation was made according to the rules of art. Mr Calvo, you referred to the Federal Planning Office. If my information is correct, in his latest calculation in this respect, this figure amounted to EUR 25 000 in 2000. We have updated the figures and implemented them with caution. We assume that this is a problem-solving profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u65	There's one point I haven't answered. This is the issue of the Monitoring Committee. You were distracted, Mr. Laaouej, but I'll make sure that you pay attention to it. I would like to point out that the government intends to work with the Monitoring Committee until the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u66	The Monitoring Committee is therefore not abolished, contrary to what Mr Reynders says and what I read in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u67	Mr President, most of the replies to the budget have already been given. I can, of course, go into more detail, but then I am ahead of the debate on the budget. We'll keep that better till then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u68	Mr President, I would like to make a similar point. I look forward to the discussions that we will have together. I would like to take this opportunity to reply to Mr Laaouej on a specific point concerning the evolution of interest rates. We follow a hypothesis that interest rates have an effect on debt and on the cost of notional interest. This assumption is there, but there is a new element: the President of the European Central Bank, Mr Draghi, has just announced that, in the new monetary policy, on the one hand, additional liquidity is no longer created and, on the other hand, almost the same interest rates are guaranteed until the end of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u70	In our assumption, we predicted a slight increase in interest rates in our budget. Mr Draghi announced that he would not change interest rates. We have taken this into account, not in a gullible manner, but on the basis of a thorough analysis by the Debt Agency. As far as the cost of notional interest is concerned, if we follow our assumption without taking into account the fall in interest rates related to the projection resulting from the announcement made by Mr Draghi, you can see that we are very careful because we have margin. A fall in interest rates will reduce notional interest in the ISOC plan. You contradict each other, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u72	No. It's asymmetrical. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u73	That's not your reasoning a few months ago. It's the opposite. You have a problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u74	Mr Laaouej, I will be happy to discuss with you the other points in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u75	Mr Laaouej had asked a question about the minimum revenues from auctions: they are estimated at 680 million euros. These revenues are not structural and will mostly be paid at one time. However, they must be shared with the federated entities, as it should be. A discussion with these will have to be scheduled as we have done in the past. Mr Dispa, you pointed out that coverage is just as important. As I said in my introduction, we increased coverage by 98% to 99.8%. The same applies to railways: at the beginning of the legislature there were 39 white areas, whereas today there are only 16. But we need to continue the effort. In any event, the coverage effort was maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u76	Mr President, it has been suggested that we should register 150 million for the fight against tax fraud, which would not be covered by any measures. Classically, we get the accusation that things are in the press before we submit them to the committee. Now I would like to give the committee the scoop of these measures. I hope that's appreciated. Let me get this straight. Foreign parent companies often give share options and thus final shares to employees of subsidiaries. The law says it's just taken into account in the taxes. However, the reality is that this rarely happens, partly because subsidiaries are not obliged to produce a tax sheet of the value of those shares. We will now have to make that mandatory, so we will have to put in that sheet. These revenues will therefore be effectively taxed, as required by the law. This amounts to a substantial amount, as indicated by the various actions undertaken by the BBI in the past on such projects or events. Secondly, the common reporting standard of CRS is running better and better at OECD level. More and more countries are registering for this and so more and more data are available. That information will certainly be made available to the tax authorities, and it has been agreed with the Minister of Justice that we will also share that information, where necessary and where appropriate, with the public prosecutors. Thirdly, measures are currently under discussion within the framework of the Panama recommendations. This will ultimately result in additional operational measures. As the Prime Minister has just indicated, there are therefore three packages of measures, which must be able to fill in the amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u77	There's still room for short replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u78	Mr President, first of all, I take note of the statements made by the Prime Minister concerning the remarks made by Minister Reynders. On the basis of the article that you have transmitted to me, Mr President, and which you understand as I do, there is therefore a disavowal of Mr Reynders' remarks by the Prime Minister. Mr. Reynders considered that the Monitoring Committee could be disposed of. Of which act! I think that's an important element. This clarifies the evolution of budgetary work. Secondly, I did not have a precise answer to the relatively simple question I asked about ARCO. The question was: if Europe does not agree with the proposed solution, is the planned partial privatisation of Belfius frozen? I don't have an answer. We are told that it is not an agreement that is being sought at European level, but rather an area of dialogue, as if Europe were a friend with whom we are going to have a drink and with whom we are going to settle down! No, at some point they will say whether or not it is compatible with primary or secondary European law. They are relatively clear from the point of view of state aid and compatibility with European law. What is not clear, however, is the Prime Minister's response. This means that at this stage we do not know how closely the ARCO file and the Belfius file are linked. Perhaps this is a question that will have to be asked by Mr Peeters at some point. He negotiated on behalf of the CD&V. Thirdly, Mr Finance Minister, I think you have a problem with notional interests, which may amount to EUR 400 million. When I asked you what explained that the budgetary return on the elimination of notional interest was going from about 470 million in 2018 to double in 2019, you explained to me that this doubling was due to a forecast of the increase in interest rates. And indeed, the higher the interest rates, the more notional interest costs the Treasury. If interest rates increase, they will result in an additional gain for the budget. That's the explanation you gave me. I can refer you to the record of our proceedings. But in this case, you are telling us that Mr Draghi has decided to stabilize interest rates. This clearly means that you need to reduce the budgetary gains you expect from the removal of notional interests. You have a problem. Mr President, another more fundamental point is that the Prime Minister is rewriting history. That's his right. But as the other would say: those who do not know the story tell stories and it ends up making stories! What is it? At the beginning of the legislature, a key element of this government was to restore fiscal balance in 2018. How? By carrying out major structural reforms and imposing sacrifices on the population, such as index jumps, but also to close holes, increases in taxes on consumption, not to mention reductions in unfunded social contributions. It is this last problem that you drag behind you from a fiscal year to a fiscal year because there is a funding problem at the bottom. Today, because you don't have the expected return effects and, according to the Plan Bureau, you have to find EUR 8.4 billion by 2020, you're in budget failure and you're telling a new story. We didn't want to do austerity, but you did austerity! When we cut the SNCB by three billion, when we impose an index jump on the population, it's austerity! You can say what you want, you've done austerity and it doesn't work! Now you're telling a new story saying that the opposition wants to push us into fiscal fetishism. Not at all! We never made that speech. We have denounced your austerity policy, which leads to the budgetary failure of your economic policy. That's what we've denounced, and you're telling us a new story because it's better for you. This is your problem, but you are not going to impose on us your story and your rewriting of history. For the rest, I thank the Prime Minister for saying that at this stage there is still a debate on advance payments and for saying that the comments on the report of the Monitoring Committee are relevant. We are talking about 1.8 billion euros for advance payments. We are talking about EUR 500 million for a possible lack of funding for health care. You say it's not in the budget, it's in the debate. When are we going to debate it? During budget work? I would, however, like to make it clear that there is a great budgetary agreement that has solved all the problems. Today, we have not been able to exhaust the real problems, namely the truth of the budget figures. We're a long way from it. For the rest, I am a little surprised by this constant rhetoric in the head of some members of the government who claim to do better than the previous government and, in particular, on fiscal or tax matters. I'm surprised how you did it. Who should be congratulated? To whom should criticism be addressed? To Mr Chastel, who was Minister of Budget? To previous Finance Ministers, Mr Geens or Mr Vanackere? Or even, why not, Mr. Reynders? To whom should the criticisms of budgetary management in recent years be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u79	To the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u80	Your rhetoric is nothing more than to overwhelm those who have taken charge of the budget! It's kind of like you're criticizing Mrs Wilmès today by anticipating that she will be responsible for the budgetary problems. A little solidarity with your fellow believers, Prime Minister. I believe that this is the role of a Prime Minister or, in any case, it would seem to me to be more in line with the role you hold. For the rest, you say that tax fraud, we will see later, during budget work, etc. I have the impression that at some point you had to be able to reach 2.6 billion. In essence, the real problem was the Belfius-ARCO deal for the cohesion of your government and you squandered your budget work! That is, in the end, the conclusion we can draw. For the rest, we will have the opportunity to return to your 'jobs deal'. The 500 million euros I am waiting for the figures, but indeed the elements that have been provided by Mr Calvo are more than appealing. You will not take me away from the idea, Prime Minister, that since the beginning of the legislature, you have nevertheless seriously degraded the level of social protection of our citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u81	Prime Minister, Minister, let me reassure you. I'm not suffering from amnesia. I know very well what the previous government has decided. But I also know very well what the difference is between the previous government and this government. The previous government has carried out a reform which, as I said in my first speech, was clearly linked to guidance. What does your government do now? Because this reform has been done, you will now go a little further and see where it comes from later. Prime Minister, you reminded me how many jobs were lost under the previous government and how many jobs were created under this government. I never discuss the number of jobs created, because every extra job is a good thing for our country. So I never took part in that discussion, and I never will. Any job that comes with it, it's fine. But it's not fair that you compare those two numbers. You know very well that there was an economic crisis at the time of the previous government. This government is fortunate that there is economic growth. Despite this economic growth, our country is dwindling at the bottom of the peloton in terms of employment. That's not exactly something to be proud of. There's still work to be done. Secondly, if you want to compare, compare the reform of the income guarantee for part-time workers. You have made it so strict that it is no longer even interesting for people to start working part-time. You entered an index jump. You can wave with the fact that you have increased the wealth envelope, but that wealth envelope you use mostly to correct the savings, which are 2 % on the benefits, something that those people will never catch up with again. That's not something to be proud of. Thirdly, guidance is very important. This story isn't just a federal story. This is also a story of the regional level. If you want to implement it, you must also make agreements with the regions. What do I see in the regions? The number of people undergoing training has fallen by a quarter. With a quarter! The number of people undergoing training for a bottleneck profession has fallen by 20%. 20%! Comparing one with another is not correct. On the one hand, you are talking about unemployment benefits without, on the other hand, providing guarantees that the unemployed will receive the right assistance. That's not okay. Don't blame me for having amnesia. I know very well the difference between now and then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u82	Mr Prime Minister, Mr Verherstraeten was very formal: opinions on ARCO have been requested. Would you like to make it available?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u83	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u84	Why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u85	Because there are rules. There is a rule of confidentiality regarding legal advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u86	You are trying to convince this Parliament that your solution for ARCO is robust. Mr Verherstraeten made a very formal reference to opinions received, opinions not paid by MR, CD&V, Open Vld and N-VA but by Belgian taxpayers. You say career that we do not get these advices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u87	This is in application of the legislation. There is no obligation to make the legal opinions public. The opinions are a help in the decision-making process. When the time comes, we will come to Parliament with the details of the decision. Legal advice shall be covered by confidentiality. That is an important principle when working with lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u88	Mr. Chairman, that's an invitation to...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u89	I think the Prime Minister has a point. I have never seen legal advice being published at this stage, especially in such a delicate matter where the Belgian State has to negotiate with the European Commission where not everyone is on the same wavelength in the field of legal advice. That would be too bad faith. That's why you're trying to hypothesize that deal. We're not having that discussion here. Parliament has never asked for legal advice, certainly not at a delicate negotiating stage. That was the case during the banking crisis. I think we should agree with the Prime Minister. Mr Calvo, are you going to go further on other points?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u90	Mr President, there will be other points, but I am going to answer them first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u91	The answer is clear, I support the Prime Minister in that. It is not Parliament's job to seek legal advice in financial transactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u92	I now know what the Michel-Van Rompuy axis thinks about the fact that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u93	Sometimes the ashes exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u94	I consider the Prime Minister's reply to be an invitation to use all possible means to obtain the opinion. In the past, I have been refused this opinion in a delicate dossier such as the nuclear one. I was able to get that, too. Apparently, the Prime Minister relies on formal arguments to cover in particular the fragility of this dossier, both technically and politically. If you say career that your story is true, then you also make those advice available. Mr Verherstraeten is not in the government but appears to have access to it. That's not exactly a nice way to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u95	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u96	He must have looked them in. We can still discuss the modalities. It's one of the things on my to do list this summer. I'll get them. Publicity of administration and Court of Auditors and all that. We'll be in touch about that. The same applies, Mr Peeters, to the 500 million. You have answered part of the matter of Planning Bureau and indexation, but not all the other arguments I have put forward to call that figure into question. You did not answer about the fact that there are a number of additional expenses in the job deal, which I do not find anywhere. You have not responded to the fact that you are already providing this for 2019, which is a very fast rate of return. You have not replied that a number of measures have already been budgeted in addition to the 500 million. I hope, Mr President, that you will have no problem with me asking for the actual calculation of the EUR 500 million, not an insignificant amount, to be made available. I hope that I do not have to start legal proceedings for this. Can we do that? Thanks for that. In that respect, you are a little more accommodating than the Prime Minister. Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Wilmès, on the one hand, it is regrettable that you have not answered a lot of questions, and on the other hand that is good news, which means that we can come back to that a few times in the summer. You have not responded to the fact that you are reducing the monitoring committee's budgetary effort; you have still cut EUR 170 million. There was no answer to the question concerning the EUR 300 million for health care. There was no response on the EUR 80 million welfare envelope. Little information was given on the EUR 138 million on pensions. There was no reply on the EUR 330 million extra on the advance payment of corporation tax and there was no answer on the EUR 210 million around the distribution of tax... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u97	You have replied to a number of important political points, but you have not replied to them. However, I have listened carefully, otherwise I would not be able to respond to your reply on a number of other points. This means that we are still sweet throughout the summer with partial aspects of the Summer Agreement, just as happened last year. Mr Kitir, Mr Peeters is strong enough to defend himself. Minister, I think it is rather poor that you refer to the past to defend the story of degressivity today. If there is anyone who has little legitimacy or strength on the contrary to what he or she has said in the past, then it is you, Mr Peeters. In the past, you have always attacked those measures of increased degressivity and limiting unemployment benefits over time. You were always very critical about degressivity in the past, saying that you would never do that. "Who believes these people anymore?" I think I remember you saying that once.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u98	(...) I have always been against limiting unemployment benefit over time. I am now very pleased with the degressivity which we will further concreteise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u99	Mr Calvo, the comprehensive report will soon be published and you can read what the ministers have said or not and whether or not your interpretations are in line with what the government has said. The comprehensive report will soon be on the Chamber's website and you will be able to read the precise terms of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u100	It was not about this debate, it was about Mr Peeters' previous position. I find that CD&V is now apparently also keenly in favour of this increased degressivity. I find that hard to understand. I want to come back to that timing. You're talking about November. One cannot, on the one hand, ask that this measure be not introduced and, on the other hand, ask that it be introduced as soon as possible. I am not asking for this measure to be introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u101	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u102	We're not stupid. There is a very clear reason why you want to lift that over the municipal elections. If you believe that this measure is really social, is really good, then have the courage to come back to it after the summer recess, but do not lift the debate about it about the municipal elections. Would you like to advance that timing: yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u103	It has been agreed and the debate can take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u104	The debate can only take place when the scenarios are on the table. You say the measure is good. Well, bring him to the table as soon as possible; have the courage to discuss him here in Parliament before the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u105	Mr Calvo, I have also listened carefully and the Minister has said that it takes some time to examine the matter, both budgetary and legislative, because the legislation is complicated, in order to take the right measures. Which brings us after the municipal elections. Moreover, I have never known that we were discussing such matters in September. Besides, you must have your job in Mechelen with the election. So let us wait until after the elections and you will certainly be able to discuss this with the Minister here in Parliament. You will therefore have the time to do so, which you may not have in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u106	I am very available, Mr President. Minister, I will continue to invite you to submit the measure to Parliament for discussion as soon as possible, because I see a manoeuvre to lift the debate on the municipal elections. I come to my final point. Prime Minister, you say that the abolition of the Monitoring Committee is not a matter for this legislature. A lot of measures and balloons that you are not talking about are for the next legislature. You are going through a great deal, including the abolition of the Monitoring Committee. Two Deputy Prime Ministers, not only Mr Reynders, but also Mr Jambon, leave that balloon on. I find that significant. It is a system that the N-VA often uses. Critical voices on her way and those who do not register in the N-VA logic or the N-VA discourse, must leave the job. I note that Mr Reynders very much likes to play the game of the N-VA. Critical officials representing the poor budgetary position of this government and Mr Van Overtveldt seem to need to be wound up. That's a way of doing politics. Watchdogs and critical voices must give way. We are seeing this way of political companies increasingly emerging at the N-VA. We will see what the future holds for the Monitoring Committee. I also blame Minister Peeters for the fact that there is a great deal of social support for the idea of a fair contribution from the greatest powers, a crushing social and political majority must be awaited until after the elections. Hence our persistence in debates like this. I believe that there are many more choices that you can make than those that you present to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u107	Mr President, just as far as Belfius is concerned, I wanted to be clear: we have never called into question Belfius' current work in relation to the real economy. I say that our project is precisely to strengthen what is currently being done for SMEs and investments, but today it is a public bank at 100%, that's what I meant. You accused us of questioning the work of Belfius' employees, I am formally demining this accusation. We'll read the report. That's not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-25-54-commissie-ic956x.u108	I would like to thank the government for its presence and the explanatory statement, as well as the colleagues. I wish you all a very good holiday. We'll meet again in September.
