ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u1	Mr President, first of all, I would like to apologize for my absence at the last committee meeting. I have already done so to the minister, but I also want to apologize to you, the services, the administration and the minister's staff, who are preparing the answers. Indeed, at the same time, I was detained all afternoon at a meeting with Mrs Marghem. I know this is delicate, because I am asking a lot of questions, but I did not expect it to take place at the same time as the Committee on the Interior. Usually, the Economy meets on Tuesdays. I don't know why it was organized on a Wednesday. You know I'm not used to meeting absences. Anyway, I'm trying to be there. Minister, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this important issue on several occasions, so long as the deadlines for transposing these 2014 standards – which have not yet come into force at home – seem to me to be incredibly long. Thinking that some are playing the watch... It is the reactions of Electrabel to the AFCN project that make me, this time, come back to you. Of course, I am not going to review all the problems that I have been able to identify or any attempts to minimize the necessary risk and corrective actions, but rather to draw your attention to some of them. Minister, do you confirm that ENGIE Electrabel rejects the maximum 36-hour time limit for safe stopping in the event of an accident? Do you confirm that this company does not accept that the text explicitly reproduces the following formula: "Selected events of external origin include events resulting from human activities, including the fall of a commercial airliner and that of a representative military aircraft"? If so, how does it justify such a refusal? Do you confirm that ENGIE Electrabel refuses that the requirement in terms of aircraft protection is intended to place units of the same site at the same level of protection against the fall of an identical aircraft type? If so, how is it justified? I am all the more concerned about the evolution of the work that, during our exchange on 20 June, you said to me: "ENGIE Electrabel's objections are correct." Do you confirm this judgment and apply it to each of the remarks on the 16 pages of the document? Do you consider that a feedback of 10-4 is sufficiently careful with regard to the risks involved? What is the meaning of the very broad derogations possible by using "methods based on expert judgements and other alternative assessments"? Do you not think that it is, through unencrypted considerations, a door open to all possible interpretations and drifts? The Belgian addition which would make it possible not to carry out certain checks when the event taken into account is considered extremely unlikely also worries, as it makes it possible to do nothing at all, whereas the idea of starting is precisely to go further than the achievements achieved so far. The same applies to many uses of the term "excessive". The interest of this type of addition and grade serves only operators, and certainly not the safety and security of citizens. I would also like to return to the transitional provisions and therefore to the fact that if the text is adopted as it stands, certain provisions will only enter into force during the next ten-year review of the unit concerned, which, for the oldest, means that the 2014 seismic standards will never be applied since the next revision is beyond their closing date. What standards and amendments will be included in this framework? Is there any agreement on this point? Basically, on the principle, will you accept that these old reactors operate for more than ten years without offering the minimum necessary protection according to the standards defined in 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u2	Mr Nollet, your first three questions concern ENGIE Electrabel's comments on a draft text amending the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 prescribing the safety of nuclear installations. The aim of this amendment is to try to harmonise the regulations of different European countries based on a new reference level of the WENRA 2014 organisation. You received the above-mentioned comments from the PSAN following a request for transparency in management. It would also appear that the AFCN has invited you to submit your comments on the draft text directly to the AFCN, but you have not yet responded. The ENGIE Electrabel document was prepared as part of a stakeholder consultation on a draft new regulation which has not yet been submitted to me. The arguments of ENGIE Electrabel, like that of any interested party, are the subject of an in-depth analysis by the Agency. Based on this, the Agency will make its final decision on a proposed regulatory text to be submitted to the federal government for approval. As Minister of the Interior, it is not up to me to explain or evaluate these comments from a stakeholder. With regard to your fourth question, you are making an incorrect reading of what I answered on 20 June. I literally said: "On the other hand, these are objections arguing that some of the proposals made went beyond the content of the 2014 WENRA reference levels, which would have a major impact on Belgian nuclear power plants. These objections are correct." I have confirmed to you that ENGIE Electrabel has correctly interpreted the draft text, namely that the proposals sometimes go beyond the 2014 WENRA reference levels and/or have a major impact on Belgian power plants. However, this was not an assessment of the completeness or accuracy of all ENGIE Electrabel's comments. As I have just mentioned, the proposed amendment aims to harmonise regulations in Europe on the basis of the reference levels of the WENRA organisation. With each publication, these reference levels become more stringent with a view to continuously improving safety. Together with the other members of WENRA, we wish to move forward together in the field of nuclear safety on the basis of these reference levels. I want to stress that they are not linked to the transposition of the European Directive 2014/87/Euratom. The Royal Decree on the transposition of this Directive was published on 19 October. Fifth, as explained above, the draft text has not yet been finalized by the AFCN and forwarded to the Government. Various advisory bodies have yet to give their views on the subject. If you have any substantive questions or comments on this draft text, I invite you to contact AFCN immediately. Sixthly, the consultation on this subject has not yet been completed. However, I would like to point out that we have already asked ENGIE Electrabel to increase further the resistance to Doel 1 and 2 earthquakes in order to meet at least part of these requirements without waiting for the next periodic review. Finally, the majority of WENRA 2014 reference levels have already been addressed by stress tests and associated material changes. The resulting concrete action plan has been completed, with the exception of a few actions currently being finalized. The remaining points from 2014 levels are or will be the subject of an action plan being implemented by ENGIE Electrabel. This includes verifying the completeness of studies. Following its transparency policy, the Agency will publish the action plan, as for the WENRA standards defined in 2006 and 2008.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u3	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I have two points to point out. First, I am concerned when you say that ENGIE Electrabel has already been asked to update its earthquake resistance capabilities in order to partially meet the requirements. For citizens and workers, we need to know that nuclear power plants fully meet seismic standards. The magnitude of the difference is not known, but the principle that one could derogate from the fact that they can or must fully respond to the seismic risk is in itself a problem. I also take note of the fact that consultations are under way, that you are still waiting for opinions, and that you have invited me to make comments. I draw your attention here to the fact that this is not my job. My job is to question and read the comments that others make. However, since I am invited to make remarks, I will make one more comment that I have already made before. I know that the AFCN reads the work of this commission and that, in doing so, it is as if I were sending it a letter. I have already made a comment on the partial aspect. My second fundamental point relates to the fact that I do not accept that, for some plants, this may mean that the updating of seismic standards will only be valid after the date of their closure, which obviously makes no sense. These are the two main comments that I wanted to make and which the AFCN will read out in the report. For the rest, I will not go into the technical aspects because that is not my role as a parliamentarian, especially since the text is not yet fully finalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u4	Mr President, Minister, at our exchange on 28 February following the publication of the study by the OVV Security Investigation Office, you replied that: "The participation of the public remains an important point of attention in the organisation of nuclear exercises. With the Crisis Centre, we are thinking about how best to involve him more in future exercises, including through evacuation exercises." Can you tell me what this reflection is? When can a full-scale evacuation exercise involving the many citizens be organised in Tihange, on the one hand, and Doel, on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u5	Mr Nollet, the Crisis Centre is currently coordinating, with all the public and private actors involved in the nuclear emergency plan, an extensive process of operationalisation. The contingency plan is a framework plan that must be set out in operational procedures in order to operate optimally in case it should be triggered. The aspects related to mass evacuations and the involvement of the population in nuclear exercises are, of course, an integral part of this extensive work that is currently being carried out and that will be carried out in the long term. As indicated in my response of February 28, 2000, the objective of the nuclear emergency planning exercises is to test the effectiveness of the response structure in relation to emergency situations. The new contingency plan provides for an annual exercise for the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants and a biennial exercise for the other nuclear and radiological sites in Belgium. The scope of each exercise is generally discussed in the context of the development of the exercise schedule and is further clarified with all stakeholders at the beginning of the preparation process for each exercise. These can be of several types: a test involving the interaction and exchange of information between the operator, the Crisis Centre and the assessment cell, which corresponds to the minimum scope of an exercise; or a test involving the interaction and exchange of information between all the participating strategic committees and cells, the operator, the Crisis Centre, the different crisis management structures, multidisciplinary operational coordination on the ground, the population and international and cross-border bodies. Given their complexity, these are prepared and evaluated in accordance with the methodology for organizing nuclear contingency planning exercises. The practical arrangements for the organization of such exercises were explained in my previous response, but I would like to stress that the choice of objectives is made by a set of partners and must take into account a range of constraints and capacities available to test these aspects, including the modalities for the participation of the population. An evacuation exercise will never involve a mandatory large-scale evacuation. This would have an excessive impact on public life, which can only be justified if there is a real risk. For exercises, groups of volunteers must be sought out in the population. For example, in schools, other things must necessarily be simulated. As indicated in the answer to your parliamentary questions Nos. 10500, 20213 and 23855, Doel's 2009 exercise showed that organizing an evacuation, outside the real situation of crisis, does not improvise and involves a huge workload in terms of preparation, information, training, communication and specific measures for the population. Consideration should also be given to monitoring of evacuees such as registration, triage and possible decontamination. Moreover, in the margins of the financial period, the various units deployed must continue to carry out their day-to-day missions while taking into account certain priorities. In order not to unnecessarily burden our emergency services, these exercises should not be organized too often. It goes without saying that, in times of crisis, the mechanisms will focus on managing the nuclear emergency and assisting the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u6	Mr President, Minister, it is precisely because an evacuation involving the population does not make any improvisation that we must do exercises. Imagine that there is no feedback from exercises involving the population but there is an accident or a more serious incident. At that time, you will not even have the evaluation of exercises to be able to rely on the best way to organize the actual evacuation. That is why, once again - this is not the first time that we have this debate and this is certainly not the last - I plead that there should be genuine involvement of the people concerned. I am not saying that we have to organize an exercise every year, but on the legislature we could have had at least one. We haven't had one, and so far there's still no plan. You're telling me that some thoughts are under way. No problem. However, I hope, Minister, that you will intervene so that there will be at least one exercise with the involvement of the population because, as Minister of the Interior, you are also a stakeholder in the preparation of the exercises.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u7	At the turn of a serious concrete problem in the ultimate rescue building in Tihange 3, it was learned that Electrabel had been unable to provide AFCN with the as-built plans of the Tihange 3 bunker. What has happened since then? Have they found these plans? How do you judge this inability to get hold of essential parts? Should we conclude from the absence of these plans that there has never been a reception of the work? If there was reception, what do the documents of the time indicate with respect to the reinforcements? Can you reassure the public by confirming that without having found such plans, the AFCN will never give its green light to the restart? It is also assumed that, on the strength of this signal, the AFCN has verified the existence and availability of all the plans of all the buildings of the Doel and Tihange power plants. Can you assure me that the problem of the disappearance and/or non-existence of the as build plans of the Tihange 3 bunker is indeed an isolated case and that all the other plans of all the plants are indeed available?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u8	Mr Nollet, a few months ago, the security authority actually asked ENGIE Electrabel to provide him with the construction file for the Tihange 3 building. As I announced to you during our exchange on July 10, it did not provide any plans as built from the Tihange 3 bunker for the simple and good reason that such plans do not exist for a concrete slab which, instead, requires a plan certified for construction as well as control reports prepared before the concrete is sunk. Indeed, a concrete slab, once cast, is not verifiable by non-destructive control. This is particularly true in the case of the ironing of a reinforced concrete structure. However, ENGIE Electrabel made available to the security authority the construction file for this building, which therefore did not mention an anomaly. Regarding the restart of Tihange 3, I can assure you, as well as the citizens, that the AFCN will only give its green light once the safety of the bunker is demonstrated. This demonstration goes beyond the availability of plans as built. Concerning Tihange 2 and Doel 4, discussions are under way. ENGIE Electrabel will also have to provide the security authority with the necessary documents and plans to demonstrate the safety of bunker buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u9	Thank you, Minister. But what does this mean for the other buildings, the other power plants? Let's start with that. Do the plans exist or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u10	The plans were requested, but they have not yet been made available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u11	If AFCN asked for them, it is because it considers them to exist. We'll see if Electrabel can provide them, while he's not able to do it for Tihange 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u12	I think it's the same thing. The plans built, I don't think they exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u13	Yes, that's why I asked the question. Why then did the AFCN ask for plans that did not exist? She asked for them, at the point of departure. Electrabel said he couldn't provide them to him. The assumption made at the time, if we resume our previous exchanges, is that they had disappeared, that they did not find them. Now the explanation is a little different; they do not exist. They never existed, to be more precise. Or do they no longer exist today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u14	We still have the initial plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u15	Yes. It's obvious. For Tihange 3 as for others, and fortunately there is no "nothing"! But do they no longer exist when they have existed in the past or have they never existed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u16	In my opinion, they never existed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u17	So I don't understand why AFCN asked for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u18	I said that we had requested the necessary plans and documents to demonstrate the security of the bunker building. So I didn't say the plans as built.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u19	All right. In your response today, it's obvious, but in previous responses, it was clear that the AFCN was asking for the plan as built.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u20	That was when she didn't know yet that it didn't exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u21	I am surprised that the AFCN thought that such plans existed when they did not exist. I think if AFCN asked for them, it was that such plans should have existed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u22	After ten months of consecutive shutdowns due to concrete degradation, the Doel 3 reactor restarted on 23 July. But just a few days later, this reactor had to be stopped in an emergency on 29 July. A leaking problem was discovered in the power plant's turbine system. Repair is required on a valve seal and the situation can be dangerous for staff because the hot steam is no longer passing properly. Do we know how long this leak problem was present? How big is it? How can we explain that this failure was not updated during the ten months of shutdown and testing? What is the reason for this leak? Are we going to find him somewhere else?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u23	On July 29, 2018, the Doel 3 reactor was manually shut down. It was not an automatic emergency shutdown, but a manual shutdown planned by the operator to correct a lack of leakproofness of a valve in the secondary circuit of the reactor. The system in question is located in the non-nuclear part of Doel 3. Nuclear safety was not threatened at any time and this event had no impact on the health of workers and the population, nor on the environment. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) quickly communicated this on its website. This type of defect can only be detected when the reactor is in power and there is steam in the system, so it was not possible to detect this lack of watertightness when the reactor was stationary. Such leaks can occur in any power plant using steam to run a turbine. I would like to explain that if the AFCN now communicates on this type of non-significant events outside or below level 1 of the International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale (INES) scale, it is because, during the sub-committee following the shutdown of the Doel 1 reactor, the AFCN had in some cases committed itself to communicate more and faster. The Agency has therefore extended its communication to non-significant events which may, however, give rise to public concern, in order to inform and reassure the public as soon as possible. In this case, as this repair necessitated manual shutdown of the reactor that could cause public concern, the AFCN communicated on the subject in order to reassure it. But this is in no way a significant event for safety or security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. I believe that this commitment of the AFCN to improve its communication can be positively emphasized. The sooner she can communicate, the more she can reassure the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u25	Mr Minister, as you know, I do not accept that the leakproofness tests carried out on our nuclear reactors are carried out only at a pressure which corresponds roughly to half the pressure expected in the event of a basic design accident, whereas tests are carried out on the basis of full pressure, so that it is checked that in the event of an accident the building is able to contain any leakage of radioactive material. During our exchange on the same subject on 28 March, you stated to me that "this would certainly be a point to be reconsidered for the next tests". Can you tell me whether, since then, tests have been carried out on any of our seven reactors? Can you explain to me the pressure used on this occasion? What are the results of these tests? Can you tell me when such tests are programmed on the reactors on which they have not been carried out since our exchange?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u26	Mr Nollet, first of all, I would like to point out that this is a leakproofness test of the reactor building and not a pressure test of the reactor building. For such a leak test, some overpressure from normal atmospheric pressure is sufficient to detect and measure any leakage. However, this overpressure does not necessarily have to be equal to the maximum overpressure that occurs in the reactor building in the event of an accident, as you say in your question. As I have already explained to you in my previous reply on this subject, these overall tests are carried out every ten years or during the work for which an opening must be carried out in the enclosure with results that meet the criteria without problems. The operator follows the agreed program and describes the satisfactory results of these tests in the safety reports that form the basis of the authorizations. Since my last response, no general leak testing of a reactor building has been performed. The next tests have been planned this year for Doel 1 and 2 reactors, more precisely at the end of the current revisions. For the remaining Doel 3 and 4 and Tihange 1, 2 and 3 reactors, the latest tests date from 2012, 2014, 2016, 2015 and 2015 respectively. New tests are not planned in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u27	Mr President, I have somewhat updated my question, because new information has come to me since it was tabled. Minister, on 23 July, the Tihange 2 reactor was automatically shut down as a matter of urgency, in an unscheduled manner. The cause is not, as was initially stated, a loss of the high-voltage network, but the triggering of the turbine management system. I obviously learned that after I put my question. Some mention a link to the earthquake that took place that morning, but both AFCN and Elia denied this information. What about it, given the discovery of the true cause? How is the turbine management system triggered? Have any measures been taken to prevent the recurrence of such a problem? Finally, why did AFCN err in its initial analysis and take two months to correct this poor diagnosis. This may happen, of course, but I would be interested to know why the Agency was misled and to know the reason for such a delay before making a correction to this erroneous finding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u28	Mr Nollet, as the AFCN has indicated, this technical problem has no connection to an earthquake. After analysing the event, it appears that – contrary to the initial information received by the Agency and published on its website, through a message indicating the shutdown of the reactor – the loss of the high voltage network is not the cause of this problem, but one of its consequences. This is obviously the risk, when the Agency communicates very quickly. As I explained in my answer to your question 26765, the detailed analysis shows that the Tihange 2 reactor automatically shut down on July 23 due to the start of the turbine management system. A defect in the latter resulted in a turbine protection signal, resulting in a triggering of the turbine and an opening of the normal external power supply circuit breaker, i.e.: the high voltage station circuit breaker causing the famous loss of the high voltage network – mentioned in the AFCN's initial communication as the cause of the problem. The power supplies were automatically transferred to the emergency power grid in accordance with the procedures. The turbine triggered an automatic shutdown of the reactor. The reasons for the triggering of the turbine controllers – installed in 2017 – were analysed. It turned out that their buffers – their memory pads – came to saturation before the end of the cycle resulting in their safety. The appropriate lessons have, of course, been drawn so that this problem does not arise. As previously noted in the AFCN communication, this event has not resulted in any impact on the health of workers and the population as well as on the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, I consider that AFCN's prompt communication required a correction of its first interpretation. Having said that, I am astonished at the delay of two months before this correction has been made. In any case, it is better to communicate quickly, even after correcting the analysis, than not to communicate at all. I agree with you. It's only a couple of months, I think it's a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u30	Minister, in response to my oral question No 26524, you informed me that you had summoned the representatives of ENGIE on 4 July, after being informed by the AFCN that the safety culture still left something to be desired on the Tihange site, despite all the letters to Mrs Kocher, reminders to order and other pro justitia that had already been issued in the past. During the nuclear safety sub-committee on 12 July, you undertook to make a visit to the site in September "to convince workers of the importance of respecting measures relating to the safety culture". Minister, what did this visit give? What could you have delivered as a message? What returns have you received? What commitments have been made by operators? What is your analysis of today's situation in Tihange in terms of security culture? Can you assure us that, from now on, there will be no further gaps like those encountered and which led to the new convocation of July 4th?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u31	Mr Nollet, indeed, at the meeting on 12 July, I had expressed my intention to make a visit to the Tihange site in September. Due to an agenda problem, this visit could only be organised on 9 October. I think this is an acceptable time frame. The visit focused on technical specifications. We visited the new Tihange 1 simulator and assisted, for the Tihange 2 and 3 simulators, in a demonstration on how deviations from technical specifications are managed. We then went to the site where we discussed with a team of operators and attended an analysis in a chemistry laboratory. I must say frankly that I didn't understand anything! The main thing for me was to get in touch with the people in the field. I have seen the impact of the technical specifications on the day-to-day work of these people and the rigorous follow-up they provide. During the visit, I myself was able to observe some of the results of the action plan. The links between maintenance teams and operators have been strengthened by a permanent and reciprocal presence. I talked to a lady who checked one by one of the thousands of specifications and specified them, if necessary, to minimize the risk of error. I spoke with the independent internal quality control officer who told me that I had to make less remarks about the team's proposals because they were more responsible for the technical specifications. I was also questioned by the fact that these people are really concerned about their work. An operator told me that he sometimes had trouble reading how some media describe them. This man was proud of the work done by his team to ensure safe operation of the plant. Similarly, the entire team hoped to be able to continue this work with dedication for many years to come. During these interviews, I told workers that their work was also essential for the population and that we were all counting on them to continue to give maximum priority to our safety. During the final interview with management, I communicated the same message. The action plan is not a final point. The safety culture is an aspect that needs to be continued on a daily basis. It is only at this price that we can admit that our plants continue to operate. Of course, my visit was not intended to be an inspection, and it did not fit into that perspective. It is, of course, the responsibility of the AFCN, which closely follows this action plan, to decide on the safety culture. AFCN acknowledges that considerable efforts have been made by operator ENGIE Electrabel to establish a core action plan and implement actions related to this plan in order to improve the safety culture. However, the overall outcome of this action plan is difficult to quantify. Although the results are not yet visible in all areas, it is important for a safety authority to persevere in the direction of continuous improvement. It should be noted that when it is said that the plan is finalized, this means that many training activities are still under way. The action plan was intended to implement them, which has been done, but they are still under way. It's impossible for me to guarantee you that there will be no further gaps. As in any industrial activity, deviations are always possible, but everything is put in place to avoid them as much as possible. What is also important is how the operator manages these deviations when they occur and the actions that are taken in case of problems with the safety culture. As far as I am concerned, my ambition was to draw attention to the fact that I was involved in all security discussions and to try, if necessary, to motivate staff. My objective was not only to implement the action plan, but also to "live security".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u32	Minister, you did well to go there. You were also right to distinguish the formal assessment of the feelings of the people you crossed to the left or right on the site. So you left the technicians with the task of formal evaluation while promoting exchanges and sending messages. I will not carry out an evaluation when I have not visited the site. I'll believe you and hope we don't have to talk about this kind of problem again. Small incidents, there are all the time. But with regard to the absence or decline of a culture of security, which is still more challenging, I will take your words for cash until proof to the contrary, in which case I will return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Clarinval's 27054 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u34	Mr President, Minister, the ENGIE press release dated 15 June 2018 tells us: "Electrabel has decided, after dialogue with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, to review the schedule of the scheduled revisions of the Tihange 2 and Doel 4 units and to adapt the end date for the ongoing revision of Tihange 3." It's an important mission. It is a question of whether, when Electrabel announces a recovery date, it is credible or not. In this case, Minister, I would like to know what is the "dialogue" between the Agency and the operator ENGIE? Why is AFCN involved in the revision of the agenda, when it is always told that it is not associated? In this case, this seems to be the case. Is this type of dialogue systematic? Did the AFCN propose to ENGIE to change its schedule because it was not credible? Has the AFCN informally validated ENGIE's new schedule? What is the role of each other in this dialogue? I would like to explore this issue in the Committee on the Economy from the point of view of the AFCN. I'll come back to see how to improve the systems, so that we don't have any more dates to announce the re-launch at this time, when we know very well that it's simply impossible, if only because the Agency still has to pass through the power plants to check what's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u35	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nollet, as you already know, during inspections and repair work on the Tihange 3 vapour escapements, the operator found anomalies in the concrete reinforcements. This finding has had some consequences. Work in Tihange 3 is more important than originally planned. The operator therefore had to change the restart schedule. Inspections on the premises similar to Doel 4 and Tihange 2 prompted the operator to decide to carry out the inspections during the summer and to adjust the expected duration of the Doel 4 and Tihange 2 stops. AFCN was informed by the operator of this discovery in Tihange 3 and of the impact on the planning of the Doel 4 and Tihange 2 stops. The AFCN also communicated in full transparency on the subject via its website and, as of 15 June 2018. However, AFCN did not intervene in the discussion concerning the evaluation of the schedules for shutting down reactors. This is not the role of the Security Authority, as was confirmed to you in the subcommittee. The AFCN also does not have all the information it needs to evaluate these schedules. In addition, it is not at all desirable for AFCN to be involved in communications on power generation planning and associated regulations. Nuclear safety must remain its sole concern and it would be unacceptable for it to also be confronted with the REMIT regulation. This would in fact be contrary to European directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u36	Minister, I take note of your answer and I am integrating it into my more comprehensive reflection on improving the communication system. I am not replying here because having a real dialogue would make more sense with a view to improving the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u37	Mr President, an ENGIE communiqué of 28 September tells us that "Constant work is still under way on the units of Tihange 2, Tihange 3 and Doel 4. Differences between the original design and the visual inspection performed after stripping were also detected on some buildings. Civil engineering is therefore important." Could you tell me what the differences between the original design and the visual inspection after stripping are for each of these three reactors? What type of deviation is involved for each of the reactors? What is their gravity? What is the number of deviations for each reactor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u38	Mr President, Mr Nollet, the diagnosis of concrete condition and building strength has not yet been finalized and submitted to the Safety Authority. I cannot add anything to the answers I have already given to questions Nos 26966 and 26967.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u39	It makes sense you cannot answer if the diagnosis is not complete. Do you therefore think that the recovery dates remain credible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u40	I will give a similar answer to the previous ones. The work does not fall within the purview of the AFCN. They are responsible for the inspection and confirm that they can be restarted safely. So I can't decide on a schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u41	I understand, but we're going around in circles... However, I will reply by saying that your colleague, Mrs Marghem, has an interest in reading your answer or that you have an interest in communicating it to her. In fact, the last time, a major problem arose because of the sudden announcement by ENGIE, to nine days of the deadline, of the postponement of several months of the date of re-launch of its plants. She said she was surprised by this unexpected announcement. In this case, I believe that your answer is already a signal that it should interpret in favour of a postponement of the dates. Minister, I can only invite you to forward your answer to your colleague. This will prevent him from being surprised again. Can you commit yourself to passing on our exchange to him?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u42	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u43	Minister, nuclear facilities are extremely sensitive in terms of safety. That's not great news. Let us think of the senior Belgian nuclear officer spyed on by people in connection with the perpetrators of the Paris bombings in November 2015. Let us also consider Greenpeace's report on the loopholes in nuclear safety in Belgium and France. Provision should therefore be made for sufficient staff and proper working conditions to ensure the safety of the various sites. As is well known, the Federal Police Security Directorate (DAB) must take over the missions to protect the nuclear sites entrusted to the military. To date, however, the number of staff is insufficient. 25 per cent of the workforce would be missing, which you find it difficult to recruit. But you decided that the DAB would still start, from 1 October, to secure certain nuclear sites. This is a breakdown of the social dialogue since the four trade unions were opposed to starting under these conditions. The working time will function as an adjustment variable. While a 38-hour week work schedule had been negotiated at the time of the reform, you now impose a 12-hour shift rate. Minister, can you provide an update on this matter? What are currently the forces involved (military, DAB) to secure the country's various nuclear facilities? The trade union organizations filed a notice of strike on 27 September, which was due for consultation on 10 October. It has been reported to me that the consultation would not have taken place. I was going to ask you what the results were. Are you going to keep the members in place until the BAD is in a position to be operational and 100% of its workforce? Will you schedule 38 hours of work per week as negotiated? Can you assure us that the current workforce is sufficient to ensure the safety of nuclear facilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u44	Minister, on 4 October the police carried out a joint action at the Tihange power station to oppose the launch of the DAB to replace the military and highlight various problems: 25% of the staff is still missing; the infrastructure is not complete; the regulations governing the staff are contrary to the status of the police; there is not yet a working protocol with the Huy police; working conditions are far from meeting the legislation of well-being at work; there is no emergency plan. During an exercise, the police reportedly took three minutes to open the door to a room. Access by employees of a private security company to police scanner data is also a problem. What can you answer on each of these points? Evidence goes so far as to tell us that the physical safety of the 70 hectares of the site is no longer 100% assured. What is your analysis of the situation? Is it not appropriate to maintain the military until all the necessary resources have been released and until the ADB is in a position to be fully operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u45	On Mr Thiébaut's first question, following the increase in the terrorist threat in 2015, Class 1 nuclear sites were subject to armed security by the Defence operational units. These are the Doel and Tihange nuclear production sites, the IRE in Fleurus, the Centre for Nuclear Energy Studies, BelgoProcess in the Mol-Dessel region and the Joint Research Centre in Geel. These armed devices have strengthened the technology installed by the various operators and the guarding services they already used on the spot. With the entry into force of the law of 12 November 2017 on police assistants and security officers, the police are explicitly responsible for the armed security mission of the nuclear sites. This mission will mainly be carried out through the progressive implementation of the new Directorate of Security, DAB, within the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police of the Federal Police. The police are therefore busy gradually replacing the military at the various nuclear sites. The police personnel who have been able to be hired and trained since the beginning of 2018 have already allowed to resume the armed security of the Tihange nuclear site on 4 October 2018. On the same date, the military device deployed on site was disengaged. Regarding your second question, Mr.Thiebaut, during the trade union negotiations on October 10, 2018, the unions made remarks and asked a number of questions about the concrete implementation of the Directorate of Security. The deployment of the Security Directorate takes into account the gradual commitment of human, budgetary and material resources. I have asked the federal police to provide all the relevant answers accordingly. As far as your third question is concerned, Mr. Thiébaut, and all of Mr. Nollet's questions, the recruitment and training of police security officers and their supervision are currently being intensively pursued so that both the security of nuclear sites and the other missions of the Directorate of Security can be resumed as soon as possible. Meanwhile, as far as nuclear sites are concerned, I have agreed with my Defence colleague that the military will maintain their device on site until the Security Directorate has the capacity to provide an optimal 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I can inform you that the police office of the Directorate of Security occupies at the Tihange site has been set up according to the agreements between ENGIE and the DAB of Tihange, in accordance with and under the control of the Security Infrastructure Service of the Federal Police. These buildings have been completed and occupied since mid-September by the DAB. Only two additional premises – the locker room and storage space – remain to be finalized and are expected to be received by the end of October. The DAB in Tihange is awaiting the delivery of the furniture by the Federal Police. All expected equipment is compensated by ENGIE, which has made available the necessary furniture. With regard to the operating protocol with the Huy police, I can tell you that a protocol of synergy between the Huy police areas and the DAB has been drafted and should be signed before the end of October. With the agreement of both parties, this protocol is already in force and the deployment plan for the information and communication centre in Liège (CIC) has been adapted accordingly. With regard to the absence of an emergency plan, I would like to point out that the provincial emergency plan is being adapted with the coordinating director of Liège. In the meantime, the Federal Police of Liège retains its powers and its role, as in the past. I would also point out that, although the internal emergency plan for the Tihange nuclear site still needs to be modified, the internal emergency procedures have been adapted to the implementation of the DAB. As far as the example reported is concerned, according to my information, it is not based on any objective observation. I can confirm that, with respect to the access of employees of a private company to scanned data, access to police infrastructure is strictly restricted to the federal police. As a result, employees of the private company do not have access to any information of a police nature. As far as the physical security of the Tihange site is concerned, I draw your attention to the fact that, unlike military personnel who can only intervene in self-defence, the police have legal powers that enable them to put in place more important and more effective modes of action and response. In addition, police security officers were specifically trained and trained for this mission for six months. The Directorate of Security will soon have better control of the field. In fact, the military operates under mission conditions and therefore changes every two weeks, while the staff of the Security Directorate will be stable. In conclusion, in full cooperation with the other integrated police services, including the local police in Huy and the coordinating director in Liège, the presence of the Directorate of Security in Tihange will ensure a better cohesion of security arrangements very quickly. This will be the case for other Class 1 nuclear sites in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for these detailed explanations. As I understand it, for some time there will still be a collaboration on the ground between the DAB and the remaining soldiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u47	In Tihange, they were completely replaced.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u48	Already?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u49	Yes. And we do the same gradually for other sites. As long as the DAB is not present, the military are.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u50	Minister, I hope that these various clarifications will provide sufficient answers so that everyone can be reassured on the ground. For me, as long as there was no insurance on both sides, it was better to keep the military there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u51	Mr Minister, at the meeting of the nuclear safety sub-committee on 12 July, you pointed out that you had asked AFCN to carry out a more in-depth examination of the report of the French parliamentary committee of inquiry on nuclear safety than was its first analysis, which concluded that the report contained no new elements and that it was therefore unnecessary to take further action. In response to my oral question asked fifteen days ago, you indicated that the analysis was still under way. I assume that, four months after the publication of the report, this study has now been completed, a fortiori when we know the conclusions of the first report. Can you give us today a copy of this in-depth analysis and give us details of the measures that have been decided in the meantime? I dare not imagine that this examination has not yet been completed, since we are in November. However, every time I asked the question, I was told that we had to wait until we were in the right place. In my opinion, it is now that we must be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u52	Mr Nollet, I am sorry, but this study is still under way. The Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety invited AFCN to exchange views on this subject. The Commission will present its consolidated conclusions at this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u53	Minister, to your knowledge, has a date already been set?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u54	The one of 27 November was proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u55	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u56	Minister, we know that these two reactors are shut down because of a leak in a conduit in the nuclear part of Doel 1 and because of the threat of leakage (degradation found) at Doel 2. I would like to have more explanation of the specific situation. Where exactly is the problem on Doel 1? At welding as originally envisaged or more serious, beyond welding, in the piping which should therefore be completely replaced? Is it a single pipe or is there more than one pipe involved? Can you identify all the pipes to replace? Where exactly is the problem on Doel 2? Is it a single pipe or is there more than one pipe involved? Can you identify all the pipes to replace on Doel 2 too? Are the audits completed? Has the origin of the problem been detected and confirmed by the AFCN? What's the status of Doel 1 work? What's the status of Doel 2 work? At what date does the operator envisage, at this stage and given all the remaining uncertainties, to be able to restart its reactor with the green light of the AFCN? Is this date credible to you and/or to AFCN? I am not asking to validate the date, I am just asking to validate that it is a possible date in theory; that there is not already an impossibility to retain that date, even if only because of the working time required for inspection and analysis by the AFCN after completion of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u57	As the AFCN indicated via a message on its website on June 18, 2018, the leak is located next to a weld, not on a weld as originally envisaged, on a pipe of the upper plenum injection system connected to the primary circuit that is used to supply the reactor with cooling fluid in certain emergency situations. As communicated by the Agency on August 31, 2018, AFCN requested that the second pipe of the same Doel 1 cooling water system be also inspected, as well as the pipes of other nuclear power plants with the same reactor cooling system. Only the Doel 2 reactor is involved. Doel 2 pipe similar to the leak-affected pipe at Doel 1 shows material degradation in the same area as Doel 1. I would also remind you that this degradation is less, however, and in no way has it caused a leak. The analysis of the second pipe of the same Doel 2 cooling water circuit is still under way. The checks referred to in your question 5 are still under way. The operator is currently completing its analysis of the root cause of the leak. The AFCN is regularly informed of its progress. At Doel 1, the part of the UPI pipe on which the leak was detected was removed. On Friday, 2 November, AFCN and its technical line Bel V approved the replacement operations for the part of the pipe affected by the leak. They were therefore able to begin. At Doel 2, the part of the UPI pipe on which degradation was found was removed. Repair operations for this pipe are still under preparation and have not yet been approved. The AFCN does not decide on the restart of the reactors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u58	Minister, thank you for the information. So we can see that the analysis is still being done in part. Yesterday, I interviewed Minister Marghem, who spoke of a delay of more than eight days in carrying out the ongoing analyses. This means that Doel 1 and 2's recovery schedule for December 10 and December 31, respectively, may not be respected. And I learn from your answer that analyses are still under way. It would also be good if you could pass on the answer to your colleague so that she is aware of the fact that there is still a lot of uncertainty. Based on a timetable as announced today, I do not think it is credible in view of all the reviews that still need to be carried out. After the reviews, the work has to be completed and the AFCN has yet to give its go-ahead. These steps are logical. We don't know the schedule because we don't yet know the extent of the damage. Thank you, therefore, for conveying this because the timetable set is very risky.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u59	Mr President, I am speaking to you as regards the organisation of work. These four questions contain a large number of similar questions that I do not want to repeat. If I may, I will read the fullest and verify that the minister is accurate in his response based on the situation of each reactor. This will save us time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u61	Minister, I will elaborate on the question concerning Tihange 3 and will therefore be attentive in your answers to the questions concerning the other three power stations. It is known that the reactor is stationary due to the problem of concrete encountered in the ultimate rescue bunker. In the context of this question, I would like to take stock with you of this important issue with regard to Tihange 3, Tihange 2, Doel 3 and Doel 4. 1. Have the pickling of the second and third premises been received? 2. Are the investigations completed? If not, what remains to be checked? 3. What does the diagnosis of sails give? 4. What are the other findings and analyses of the seriousness of the problem? 5. Are all the necessary work already defined? If so, what are they? 6. What work is planned for the roof? Have the tests carried out guaranteed the effectiveness of the repair envisaged for the roof? 7. Has the PSAN completed its analysis of the file received? What are the main conclusions of this analysis? 8. Does AFCN now have the necessary information to confirm ENGIE's assumption of the poor positioning of the frames? 9. To what conclusion does the AFCN's analysis of the causes of this mispositioning lead? 10. Did ENGIE ask AFCN to accept a restart of the reactor without the work on the roof being completed? Since when does the operator know that there is a problem of concrete degradation in this bunker? 11. What exactly did the inspections carried out in the bunker during the previous judgments and when did those inspections date? 12. Since when has AFCN been warned of the degradation of bunker concrete? What is the first report sent to AFCN that mentions this? 13. Do photos of the inside of the bunker exist? If so, when did they date and when were they handed over to AFCN? 14. Can it also be considered that the severity of the damage was incorrectly estimated for this bunker and that the repair work should have taken place earlier? 15. When did the first in situ visit take place in the bunker of the inspectors of the AFCN and/or the Bel V subsidiary? How many times and on what dates have they since visited the site inside the bunker? 16. When did Bel V's reports refer to the state of the bunker and what did they say?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u62	Mr Nollet, you regularly ask for a detailed overview of the work in Tihange 3, Tihange 2 and Doel 4. As you know, this work is likely to last several months. I therefore hope that you understand that asking weekly questions asking for a detailed state of affairs makes little sense and creates a considerable additional workload for the experts of the Safety Authority. The AFCN will provide, in due course and when appropriate, an update on hot points or other significant assessments and an update on the status of work. There were anomalies in the positioning of the frames in the Tihange 2 and 3 bunkers. As far as plans are concerned, I refer you to my answer to question 26763. The ceiling repair works are identical on the three units at rest. The method of repair consists first of stripping up to healthy concrete, then protecting the reinforcements and finally repairing with a repair mortar. Different tests must be conducted at different stages to ensure that the repair is effective and that the repaired roof can fulfil its safety function. At each cut-off, the civil engineering follow-up procedures require the operator to carry out a systematic visual inspection of the three bunker valve exhaust spaces. I would remind you that, for conventional safety reasons, the risk of steam release when the reactor is in operation, these premises can only be inspected when the reactor is shut down. In previous inspections, the operator had found concrete damage at various locations, which could be explained by the exposure of concrete to a warm and humid environment. This problem has been known and monitored by the operator for years. For example, the operator has carried out several repairs and renovations in order to restore the premises to a condition deemed correct. The resistance of buildings has not been questioned since the first indications of aging in the past. It is necessary to be realistic and to adopt a graduated approach in such situations. The holding of a building is not put back right away. Unlike today, there was no question on the part of the challenger of the structural integrity of these roofs so far. In summary, this problem is indeed historically known and documented in the reports of the operator's internal inspection, with or without photos. These internal inspection reports are not systematically forwarded to AFCN or Bel V. In committee, the question about the realistic time frame for a historical overview of this concrete problem was asked at AFCN. As AFCN has indicated, this will take time, and for the time being AFCN and Bel V are giving priority to safety, namely research and analysis on the current situation of power plants. The security authority will make every effort to have an initial overview available by mid-December. The operator, who is primarily responsible for the safety of its facilities, has now determined that repairs are required on all three units and that the situation would call into question the operation of the entire vessel. The problems encountered mainly show a lack of appreciation, in the past, of the real gravity of these degradations and their impact on the safety function of this building. As mentioned above, these premises, which are accessible only when the reactor is stationary, do not contain active components (pumps or engines) requiring special attention during the overhaul. In the past, these premises have not been systematically inspected by the Bel V inspectors, who are responsible for monitoring the operator's activities during the revision. As I told you, the operator has always indicated that these premises were in a correct condition during each review. It is not AFCN's role to systematically monitor and validate any intermediate inspection or repair. Since the findings at Doel 3 in 2017, close monitoring of repair work - almost weekly - has been carried out by the security authority. I invite you to visit the Transparency website of Electrobel, on which these dates are available. As the AFCN has told you on many occasions, this agency does not decide when to restart the reactors. It will give its green light for restarting only when the safety of the installations is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u63	Minister, I note that a series of things in Electrabel's internal reports have not been systematically forwarded to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. It would be interesting, during the full assessment of the situation, to see if there were any information that should not return more systematically to AFCN. We will see that when the report is submitted. I also note that an interim report will be submitted in mid-December. I will not be longer for this reply because I will repeat each of my questions when I have this interim report. I will see what questions are answered in this report, especially on the photos. I will pay particular attention to what the agency had already received as information and when. Remember that there were photos dating from 2016 in the package of photos that were made public at some point. I imagine that we will decide on the modalities with the committee or the sub-committee to read this report carefully. I shall come back after analysing the report with questions, if any, which have not been answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u64	Minister, we know that the calipers play a major role in resisting an impact such as a crash. It is also known that at least on the bunkers of Tihange 2 and 3, the frames are not or more properly positioned. All this justifies the construction of a new roof. Minister, what work is planned for the roof in Tihange 2 and 3? Have the tests carried out guaranteed the effectiveness of the repair envisaged for the roof? Who evaluates the consequences of a plane crash? Are they the engineers of AFCN or those of Bel V? Are they equipped to make these calculations independently? Does the AFCN outsource this work? If so, to whom? Which firm is involved in this pre-study work? I would also like some clarification of the standards used. Thus, on what standards is the crash resistance test based on? When is this standard dated? How does the AFCN judge today the "solidity" of this standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u65	Mr Nollet, the work currently under way is aimed at repairing the damage observed in the rooms of the Tihange 2 and 3 steam room. The security authority has been provided with a detailed description of the various steps related to the completion of these repairs for Tihange 3. As the diagnosis is under way in Tihange 2, the details of the steps relating to the realization of the roof repairs have not yet been discussed with Electrabel. The repair work under way in Tihange 2 aims to clean the roof of all areas that are not healthy. Tests will have to be carried out and approved by the authority, at the end of this stage, but today Electrabel is not yet in the reception stage of this cleaning. In Tihange 3, the roofs of some premises were cleaned and the first operations started. As a result, various tests were carried out during the first stages of repair to enable the next stage of repair to be completed. Roof cleaning has not yet been received for all surfaces. The main retoning phase is still in preparation. The consequences of an aircraft fall are first assessed by the operator and his engineering office, the engineers of the safety authority, Bel V and AFCN, verify these studies. Currently, the authority does not outsource this verification work to calculate the consequences of an aircraft fall. However, if this is necessary for significant workload reasons or for a specific need for expertise, the security authority will take this possibility into account. However, the said authority appealed to the Wallonia Public Service to strengthen its assessment of the diagnosis of Electrobel, the extent of the work and the repair strategy of Doel 3 and Tihange 3. In its calculations of the structural integrity of buildings, the operator will use various standards: American, German and French. These were published, among others, by the American Concrete Institute in the United States and the Kerntechnische Ausschuss in Germany. Some of these standards date back to the 1980s. The most recent to which the operator refers dates back to the mid-2000s. One of the tasks of the security authority is to verify whether the standards used are still applicable and valid. This research is part of the overall evaluation related to the approval of reactor restarts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u66	Minister, thank you for your full answer. I'll take the time to analyze it and come back to question you, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u67	Minister, what is in Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 the ultimate back-up device equivalent to the bunkers available to the four most recent reactors? What alternatives to bunkers are envisaged, conceivable and studied in Tihange, so that, if necessary, Tihange 3 and/or Tihange 2 can be restarted before all the necessary repairs are made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u68	Dear colleague, the term "ultimate rescue system" refers to the level of protection added in the framework of the resistance tests of the power plants, following Fukushima Daiichi in 2011. These ultimate relief systems are designed to protect power plants from unplanned design events, such as floods occurring only every ten thousand years, in addition to the floods considered in the design. Similar means are available for all units. So I guess your question was about second-level systems. The second-level backup systems of Doel 1 and Doel 2 are located in the gebouw van de nod systemem. For Tihange 1, these are located in the building of the ultimate fold system. No alternatives to the bunker are currently being discussed. The objective remains that the necessary repairs to the Tihange 2 and 3 bunkers will be completed before consideration is given to restarting these reactors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u69	Thank you, Minister. It is above all the answer to the second question which is reassuring, namely that we do not start to procrastinate and seek alternatives. Some had considered placing missiles on nuclear sites to circumvent the lack of an effective bunker in the capacity to react. I hear that at this stage nothing like this is imagined. We're focusing on the necessary repair work, and that's so much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u70	Mr President, I am told that this is my last question for today. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank colleagues for their patience and to tell them that it will be brief. Minister, what lessons has AFCN learned from this file and what are the proposals for the necessary improvement in the monitoring of aging and maintenance to be carried out by both the operator and the safety authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u71	Mr Nollet, the various analyses of this problem are still under way. The PSAN will draw conclusions on the file once it is resolved. However, I can give you some information on the subject. AFCN and its technical subsidiary Bel V closely monitor activities related to the maintenance and management of ageing of nuclear power plants through their inspection program and other activities. Monitoring the ageing of nuclear power plants is thus an integral part of the 10-year revisions. It is also, of course, one of the pillars of the action plans for the long-term operation of reactors. Specific inspection campaigns in this area have already been carried out by AFCN and a number of improvement actions are under way, such as adjusting the operator's organisation through the creation of specific cells following the ageing of the installation or the development of KPI on ageing. A possible improvement action in the future for the security authority is, for example, an increase in the frequency of on-site checks on this topic. For the time being, monitoring the concrete situation of nuclear power plants places a relatively large workload on them. Once completed, the AFCN will be able to draw more in-depth conclusions on these details.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u72	Minister, I will therefore come back to you at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u73	Mr President, Minister, the Cattenom nuclear power plant is a nuclear power plant operated by EDF, located in Lorraine in the commune of Cattenom, 35 km from the Belgian border. Cattenom is the sixth most powerful nuclear power plant in the world. Inaugurated in 1986, it is so concerned that the Luxembourg Government would like to see it closed. Indeed, serious safety deficiencies in relation to post-Fukushima European standards would be noted. They concern radiation protection or site resistance in the event of flooding or earthquake in particular. In recent years, various operating anomalies have been identified at this plant. In March of this year, late detection of defects, in accordance with the reactor operating rules, was classified at level 1 of the international level of INES nuclear events. It comes to my mind that Belgium would not ask for the safety reports of this plant. It seems to me important, in nuclear matters, to have maximum safety for all plants, with the same criteria throughout Europe. There is also a need for significant transparency in the information provided to our populations and cooperation between States and security authorities. Minister, do you confirm that our country does not request and do not have the security reports of the Cattenom plant? If so, do you intend to remedy this situation and within what time frame? Does the bilateral framework for cooperation between the Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) apply to the Cattenom plant? Is AFCN invited to inspect the Cattenom plant? Are you aware of any malfunctions in this plant? Why does this plant not appear on the map of nuclear sites in Belgium of AFCN like other border power stations? Are you considering asking your French colleague about the safety of the plant at Cattenom?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u74	Mrs Goffinet, it is a great honour for me to answer your first question in committee. It does not escape you that the control of the safety of French nuclear power plants falls within the competence of the French nuclear safety authorities. They shall ensure that French operators take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of their nuclear installations at all times. Please note, however, that the PSAN holds periodic bilateral meetings with the NSA. During these meetings, information on the state of the plants in each border area, including that of the Cattenom power plant, is regularly exchanged. Through this channel, AFCN can request additional information on these plants if necessary. In addition to this, there is indeed a convention for the exchange of information between the Belgian and French nuclear safety authorities. This applies in particular to the Cattenom nuclear power plant. The Convention provides that in the event of an event and of well-defined situations involving nuclear sites close to the Franco-Belgian border, it is the responsibility of the competent authority to notify its counterpart. This Convention applies to all events classified at level 1 and above on the INES scale as well as to certain specific events classified at level 0 or not classified. With regard to inspections, the AFCN does, on certain occasions, carry out cross-inspections with security authorities in some neighbouring countries. This is particularly the case with the ASN. In recent years, AFCN has participated in various inspections at Gravelines and Chooz sites. The Cattenom plant has not yet been inspected. If you refer to the map published on the AFCN website, under the tabs "Emergency situations", "What the authorities are doing", "Nuclear emergency plan" and "Nuclear sites in Belgium", this section refers to the nuclear sites for which the national emergency and radiological plan could apply. The Cattenom power plant is mentioned at nuclear sites near our borders, which may trigger the emergency plan. I see no reason to question my French colleague because this exchange of information takes place at the level of the supervisory bodies. This takes place between the NSA and the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u75	Mr Minister, I am well aware that controls are being carried out at the various nuclear power stations adjacent to it, but, as you have announced, Cattenom is not one of them. For the past two years, however, the Luxembourg State and the German State have been deeply concerned about the development and shortcomings of this plant. I strongly urge AFCN to conduct an on-site inspection. I do not understand why Belgium would not be interested more specifically in this plant when many meetings are held with Luxembourg and Germany. The map you're referring to is exactly what I was talking about, in relation to the triggering of the plan. The other nuclear power plants are represented and not Cattenom, even if it is mentioned in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u76	Either I didn't express myself correctly or you didn't hear me correctly. Cross-inspection visits are conducted on a regular basis. It is by chance that they have not yet taken place in Cattenom. These visits are not carried out every month. Moreover, the map is an image. If you look at the list of the mentioned power plants, Cattenom is taken over. The card isn't important. Reference should be made to the list of controlled and distributed power plants in emergency plans. There is therefore no problem in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u77	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 27272 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts' 27276 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u78	Mr Minister, before the summer recess, I asked you a question about recruitment at the SAB, which is becoming a child of concern in the security landscape. You replied to me that it was a challenge to achieve the recruitment targets set. You also told me that as of September 1st, the first batch of security officers would be working on the nuclear sites of Doel and Tihange. You also told me that there would be a final evaluation of the current recruitment campaign by the middle of October or the end of October. It's now the beginning of November, so I have the following questions. How many security officers have been recruited since the start of the recruitment campaign? Is the final evaluation available to us? Can this be transferred to me and to the other interested parties? Can you explain this final evaluation? How many recruits are currently in training? What initiatives will follow in the coming months with regard to recruitment to the SAB?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u79	Mr President, Mr Yüksel, I will provide you with a table of figures. This table is a summary of the candidates admitted to the training, ranked according to the month in which they were admitted. In the table you will also find the number of candidates who passed the course. As you know, training lasts six months. Those candidates who failed in the first time shall be invited for the second time. The course of certain candidates was postponed. They are therefore not included in the number of candidates who passed the training. So far, 75 security officers have successfully completed their training. They are currently operational. As far as the profile of candidates is concerned, 82.8 % of candidates are men and therefore 17.2 % are women. There are no doubts yet. The average age of all candidates is 31 years. 72 % of candidates are French speaking, 27.8 % Dutch speaking and 0.1 % German speaking. I'll provide you with the breakdown data by province as well. On 22 October there were 21 French speakers for Tihange and 24 Dutch speakers for the police of courts and courts in Brussels. Assuming that the prospective security agents will succeed in their training, they will be 220 men, to join the 75 already active security agents. This procedure will be carried out in accordance with the planning of the training referred to in points A and C. I come to your second and third questions. The evaluation is ongoing, as the current campaign has not yet been completed. So I have not yet been able to provide you with any relevant information on an evaluation. Here's to your fourth question. 220 prospective security officers are currently undergoing training. These are 33 women and 170 men, of whom 79 are Dutch speakers and 141 are French speakers. They are distributed as follows: 33 in Antwerp, 46 in Ghent, 91 in Jumet and 50 in Liège. The current recruitment campaign has not yet been completed. The recruitment strategy depends on several factors currently being studied. Among other things, the attractiveness of the police as a potential employer and the socio-economic context affect the format of recruitment campaigns aimed at particular profiles and/or target groups. These campaigns will therefore focus on the specific needs and expectations of the SAB. You know the D.A.'s security force is 400 units, although it reduces it a little bit every day. These units are suddenly joining us. We are now recruiting for this, because the practice shows that 400 units are not enough to secure courts and courts. That's why we're in the middle of recruiting. These recruits will then be added. From the outset: in order to do it right and without taxing the local police, we need 800 people for the security of courts and courts. So, 400 units plus and 200 units, that means recruitment efforts still have to be made. At the moment, a number of people from civil protection are interested, but there is not everything there and that is why this is still in the pipeline. There's probably gonna be some more of that. I must also say that we expected more from the recruitment from the army. We will have to look at it again, with Mr Vandeput I wanted to say, but it will be with Mr Loones. There are still many questions with the military. Therefore they do not go into the siren song from the DAB. We need to look at that channel again. The growth of the army to the DAB has been somewhat below the estimates. So there are still some issues to solve, but I do not agree that he is a care child. We're a little behind schedule, but it's not a worry child. We are committed to solving, among other things, the problems of Mr Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u80	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I will look at the figures again, but "care child" mainly referred to the stated ambition of 1 500 people. We're not getting anywhere near that yet. There is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u81	That was the ambition before the end of 2019. The 400 people from the security force are included.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u82	That is true, but if we want to carry out a number of tasks and relieve a number of entities, this ambition must be further developed. In a recent reply from you, I read that the success rate is low. One of the issues raised is the selection criteria for language and sport tests. Also the influx from the army needs to be improved. You referred to it. The SAB should promote these matters to the general public. Those who are interested in a security function can get more out of it. In the long term, the police and the military can be relieved of certain tasks. I'll follow it up with you. We therefore hope to achieve this ambition in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u83	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Debates of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u84	Mr President, Minister, the message reached me that victims of the storm damage that took place on 8, 9 and 10 June 2014 have still not been compensated. After a lengthy procedure, a number of the injured were finally provided with a uniform copy of the reimbursement decision and a compensation calculation by the end of July, but so far the amount has not been transferred. A signature of a competent official of the Rampenschade department would be missing, as evidenced by the answers given to those who contact the service by telephone. The competent official appears to be absent because of illness. After more than four years of waiting, this last delay is painful and difficult for the victims to understand. Is it true, Minister, that the payments to be approved by the Disaster Damage Service are being delayed? If so, how big is the delay? What procedure is followed for the payment of compensation once there is a reimbursement decision? How does the standard procedure work in the event of a long absence of an authorised official, so that payments can be made? Was that procedure followed? If so, how is it that payment has not yet been made? If not, why not? How many victims and what amount are we talking about at the moment? I suppose those amounts are blocked or blocked until recently. Finally, what steps do you want to take to avoid similar situations in the future or correct them as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u85	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the procedure for paying compensation is as follows. Once the reimbursement decision has been taken by the provincial governor, the deceased has 15 days to appeal against this decision. If no appeal is made, the file will be transferred by the governor's services to the Disaster Damage Service of the General Directorate of Civil Security of the FPS Home Office. On the basis of the reimbursement decision, a payment order shall be drawn up after verification of the amounts by the latter department. This payment order is then forwarded to the FPS Finance which manages the National Cash for Disaster Damage and executes the payments. There has indeed been some delay in payments for retirement and long-term illness in recent months. However, everything was done to quickly arrange a replacement and since September they are back on track. In the meantime, the backlog has been eliminated. In the event of a long absence of an authorised official, payment orders shall be signed by the Director-General of the Civilian Security Executive Board. This also happened during the months of June, July and August. With the designation of a newly authorised official, payment orders are returned to the FPS Finance on a frequent basis - two or three times a week. In September 2018, 232 payment orders, representing 208 139.45 euros, were transferred to the FPS Finance. In October 2018, these were 158 payment orders for an amount of 271 700 euros. As you know, there were a lot of files of hail damage. A total of 11 930 files, half of them in East Flanders. According to the provinces, there are no more than 1 500 files for which the governor still has to make a decision. This is mainly about East Flanders. As indicated above, payment may be made once the file has been fully completed at the level of the province. I have therefore ensured that out of the 10 people recruited to deal with the files, 6 went to East Flanders. As far as your fourth question is concerned, it's all over again. The files are transferred two to three times a week to the FPS Finance, which executes the payments weekly. The province of East Flanders estimates that it will have completed the remaining 1 500 files by spring 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u86	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. In this case, it was about decisions that date back to July 2018. The fifteen-day deadline must be respected, and so on. Those decisions were made three to four months ago. Since you say that the delay in payments has meanwhile been eliminated, I hope that this will also be the case for those who have informed me. Once the decision has been taken, every effort must be made to ensure that payments are made quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u87	As Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is not present, her question No. 27449.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u88	Minister, you will of course also have read this message during the holiday: from a survey conducted by Doctors of the World among 440 people, it would appear that one in four transmigrants in our country is facing police violence. The report shows that this violence would be diverse and excessive in nature: the investigation mentions, among other things, fiststrokes, stairs and batons, arbitrary and forced nudist fouillerings, extortion, violence and blackmail to obtain fingerprints. 27.5% of those who testified about violence were minors at the time of the survey. It is clear that, in addition to the physical effects, the psychological impact of such events can also be very great. If that is true, that is obviously unacceptable. In addition, it appears that regular personal items of transmigrants would not be returned upon release. A spokesperson of the Brussels parquet has already stated that seven investigations are currently under way in Brussels concerning possible abuses or violence by the police. He also indicated that the complaint procedure would be simplified, although it is not clear how that will happen. The P Committee is also currently examining the issue, but it seems that the government and you, as ministers, urgently need to take action and look into it more closely. I have the following questions, Minister. First of all, are you surprised by the findings and figures from the World Doctors' report? What's your reaction to this? Secondly, did you have any indication before the publication of the figures that the use of violence against transmigrants is taking on such proportions? To what extent were you aware of the number of incidents or complaints? Thirdly, how many internal investigations are currently under way into the abuse or violence of the police against transmigrants? There may be several procedures: by the P Committee and by internal supervision. Fourthly, do you intend to invite World Doctors to a meeting and any discussion to discuss the findings with the organization? Fifthly, what is the progress of the P Committee's investigation? When can the results be expected, as far as you can see? Sixthly, in what way does the Brussels Office, in cooperation with the Brussels police, intend to simplify the complaint procedure, as you yourself have indicated? Will this simplification be extended to other police areas if it is introduced? If so, in what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u89	Mr Van Hecke, first of all I would like to say that torture and inhumane treatment in a humane state cannot be tolerated and that any form of irresponsible violence must be properly punished by the police. I want to leave no doubt about this. It must also be said that the police can always use force and exercise their authority if it is absolutely necessary to carry out a legally responsible mission. However, the use of force in itself cannot be tolerated. In any case, we must examine and evaluate in an appropriate manner whether the use of force is excessive or justified. Searching people is also clearly regulated in our country. Fouille for detention in particular is intended to ensure that the searched person is not in possession of objects which are dangerous to himself or others or which facilitate escape. Therefore, a thorough fouille is prescribed in which an examination of the body, the nude fouille, is allowed. The fact that sometimes hidden razor blades are found on the body of transmigrants demonstrates the need for this legal authorisation. In order to minimise the dignity of the person, this fouille is performed in a protected space by persons of the same sex. As far as the AIG is concerned, there are currently no internal investigations into police abuse or violence against transmigrants. In the coming weeks, a presentation of the report of the World Doctors will take place in the Prime Minister's cabinet. People from my cabinet will be there as well. The Doctors of the World had written to many ministers. We believe that this is the way to deal with it. The investigation into police control and detention of transmigrants following large-scale administrative arrest by the P Committee would now be in a final stage. For the answer to your sixth question, I must refer to my colleague in the Justice Department. The remaining answers were answers to questions from Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, who had not been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The monopoly of violence in Belgium and in a democratic rule of law belongs to the police. The police must, of course, deal with this very carefully. Violence must not be excessive and must always be necessary and proportionate. There should not be any discussion about this, but there is some discussion about it when we read the reports. A little later there was also an article by David Van Reybrouck in De Standaard that you will probably have. It could be argued that case-by-case consideration should be given to whether or not the violence has been excessive in one or the other and whether or not it should be. The stories are poignant anyway. I know everything has to be investigated. We cannot always rely on a single statement. Minister, it is very important that you are also present at the presentation of the report to the Prime Minister's Office, so that we can also discuss it with the doctors who have made the findings. Let me give you one example from your answer. You mentioned the Fouille and the Naked Fouille. That's a derogatory thing and not fun to see. The question is whether such a fouille is always necessary in all circumstances. You indicate that when a fouille happens, it takes place in a protected space and by persons of the same sex. However, there were statements that men had to undergo a nude hairline and that women policemen would have been present. Whether that's true or not, the investigation will have to prove. At least those are stories that have been brought forward. Minister, it is essential that you do everything in your power to carry out the necessary investigations. The public prosecutor will do his job with regard to the possible complaints being dealt with there, namely the seven complaints referred to. Secondly, I hope to be able to obtain the detailed information from the Committee P report so that we can carry out this research in a thorough manner. We all benefit from knowing what is right and what is not right and also from being able to assess on what scale this has happened. I certainly don't want to generalize. I will never claim that all policemen act in this way. However, if that happens, even if it is only once or twice or very little, these situations are never possible. I hope that the investigation will clarify the complaints that have been made. I'm sure I'll keep following it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u91	Deputy Prime Minister, the press has recently echoed several cannabidiol store (CBD) controls conducted jointly by the services of the Federal Food Chain Security Agency (AFSCA) and the Federal Police, the most recent of which, to date, took place on 24 October 2018. CBD is a cannabis flower that has less than 0.2% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and is therefore not considered a drug under current legislation. Its sale is therefore allowed and cannabidiol stores are growing more and more over the months on Belgian territory. In Ixelles alone, I've counted more than six in the last few weeks. According to the information published in the media, the main purpose of these controls is to certify that the THC content of the CBD for sale does not exceed the legal rate defined and to verify that stores do not offer foodstuffs containing CBD, which is illegal in Europe. In order to complete my information on this subject, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you possibly have information on the number of cannabidiol outlets in Belgium? What is the state of the market in our country? How many checks have you performed so far? Therefore, what is the status of these field operations? Finally, is there any reflection at the federal government level on the approach to the phenomenon, which we can consider to be relatively new? Has an interdepartmental task force been set up to advise the executive in the direction of its choices in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u92	Mr Calomne, the police services do not currently have precise data on the number of shops selling cannabidiol in Belgium. However, signals from police or other sources indicate the emergence of many points of sale randomly spread across the territory. An assessment of this is still very difficult, since this trade is also organised on the Internet. I can confirm that several judicial districts are concerned today. With regard to your second question, controls have indeed been organised on these new types of outlets. These controls seem essential to me in order to ensure compliance with the law for these traders as well as with a view to public health. Given the multidisciplinary nature of the problem, the police services were invited to coordinate with the other departments involved in monitoring compliance with the ad hoc regulations - the food chain and medicines - under the auspices of the judicial authority. At this stage, several checks have been carried out in different judicial districts. It is very likely that subsequent controls will again be organised in other judicial districts. As regards the action of the police services, the checks carried out resulted in the seizure of various products, including flowers, for the analysis of THC levels. Most of these analyses are ongoing and fall under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. I would therefore refer you to the Minister of Health with respect to the food and medical components. Finally, cannabidiol is not an unknown product of specialized services but I note that its trade has recently grown to a certain extent. It is therefore important to reconcile compliance with the various regulations in this field. With regard to the enforcement of the Narcotics Act, it is important for me to ensure that these outlets do not dispose of illegal products. An interdepartmental task force has not been set up, but the various services concerned are of course in regular contact in order to propose a coordinated approach and to frame communication vis-à-vis the public. The police have been informed internally about the existence of the problem and the need for a concerted local approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u93	Minister, thank you for your full answers to all my questions. As you said yourself, this phenomenon is not new. In recent weeks, there has been a multiplication of the openings of these different outlets, in parallel with the sale on the Internet. These are mostly physical shops. This raises a lot of questions, especially among the citizens who live in the vicinity of these shops. As this affects different jurisdictions, I have also addressed a question to the Minister of Public Health on this subject, which is likely to be on the agenda in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u94	Minister, last August, a new significant event was reported at the Chooz nuclear power plant. Due to poor setting, the tanks of the site's four diesel engines that serve as emergency power sources were not filled enough to meet the minimum requirement. It was during discharge operations that the teams discovered that the amount of fuel extracted from the tank of one of the diesel engines from Reactor 1 was less than the quantity indicated by the level gauge. Additional checks and verifications carried out, it turns out that all of the tank controls of the diesel engines at the site are poorly configured: they overestimate the level of filling of the tanks of several cubic metres. As a result, some diesel engines did not have the prescribed minimum of 150 litres of fuel required to operate several times over the past 12 months. You can imagine the potential consequences of this underfilling. These diesel engines must be able to provide cooling and power to nuclear reactors in the event of an external power outage. They must therefore be constantly ready to operate when necessary and have sufficient autonomy. The technical specifications therefore provide that they all have at least 150 litres of fuel in their tank at all times. This event was declared to the French Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) on August 2, 2018, as significant for safety and classified at level 1 of the INES scale. This is the sixth significant event reported in less than six months at this plant. I must not remind you that if this plant is located in France, it has been built in the direct vicinity of our territory, in this case the province of Namur, with prevailing winds and currents which have the consequence of bringing the risks and potential consequences of a nuclear accident mainly to Belgium and its inhabitants, without our country having sufficient and direct control over the safety of the plant, a point on which I regularly question you. Minister, have you been informed by the French authorities of this new incident? What commitments have been made by the operator and the French supervisory authority to address this new problem? Is this issue of filling diesel tanks subject to specific control in Belgian power plants? Have such problems of underfilling or poor calibration already been detected? In view of the increasing security problems at the Chooz power station, what initiatives have you taken or intend to take towards the French authorities to call for greater rigour and vigilance with regard to the safety of their nuclear installations and in particular with regard to the said power station?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u95	Mr Gilkinet, there is a convention on the exchange of information between the Belgian and French nuclear safety authorities. The Convention provides that in the event of clearly defined events and situations, in relation to nuclear sites close to the Franco-Belgian border, it is the responsibility of the competent authority to notify its counterpart. This Convention applies to all events classified at level 1 and above on the INES scale as well as to certain specific events classified at level 0 or not classified. In this case, the AFCN was actually informed by its French counterpart, the ASN. However, as you know, monitoring the safety of French nuclear power plants falls within the competence of the French nuclear safety authorities. They shall ensure that French operators take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of their nuclear installations at all times. I am convinced that the French authorities will respond appropriately to this case if it proves necessary. I also hope that you understand that it is not possible for me to comment on technical issues that are taking place completely outside our country. In Belgium, the operating technical specifications which the operator is required to follow require periodic verification of the volume of fuel in the tanks. In practice, for Tihange 3 for example, these technical specifications require three things to be checked every 31 days. First, that the volume of fuel in each diesel unit's daily fuel tank exceeds 1,500 litres for first-level diesel and 2,000 litres for second-level diesel. Secondly, that the volume of fuel stored in the storage tank common to the diesel units of a unit is greater than 150 cubic metres for the first level and 140 cubic metres for the second level tanks. Finally, that the automatic transfer systems from the storage tank to the daily tank of each diesel unit work properly. A problem of this kind has not recently occurred in a Belgian nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u96	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not comment on the Belgian part, but I hope that there will be no problem of underfilling alternative generators. As far as Chooz power station is concerned, I know your standard answer. I'm systematically questioning you in case of an incident involving her. I know what you're going to answer. But you will allow me not to be content with it and satisfy myself with the current situation. When you say it's a power plant totally out of our country, it's a geographical reality, but Chooz is landlocked in Belgium. You know as well as I do that in case of problems in Chooz, these will be 80% Belgian. However, the responsibilities are 100% French. Hence my dissatisfaction and my fear that, without sufficient pressure from the parliamentarian I am or the minister you are – you have more power than I do – the guard will be lowered to the level of security control in Chooz. The multiplication of incidents as referenced in my written text prompts me to worry and call you to vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u97	Minister, the Militaria Scholarship, which took place this Sunday, October 28 in Ciney, is – as its name indicates – a military stock exchange. There are almost 500 exhibitors from all over Europe every year. They sell uniforms, helmets, spare parts, weapons – in any case, legally authorized and over-the-counter – medals, flags, engravings, cards, books and other utensils. In an on-site report, RTBF found that Nazi objects were sold there, which were not collectible objects, but vulgar reproductions. On their stands, several exhibitors proposed pins, armbands and other stamps flanked by the sgammy cross and more like "made in China" reproductions than real antiquities, of which one can fear that their aim was to attract the attention of sympathizers of Nazi ideology and to publicize it. Moreover, in the text of my question, I inserted a photo illustrating this fact. However, this is explicitly prohibited by different laws, which are recalled on the organisation's website. I am thinking of the local police regulations; the law of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts motivated by racism or xenophobia; article 444 of the Criminal Code, which punishes those who engage in the apology of undemocratic regimes; and, lastly, the law of 23 March 1995 which punishes the denial, minimization, justification or approval of genocide committed by the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. Minister, can you confirm to me, under the various laws mentioned or other legislation, that it is forbidden to display and sell any item with the SS or Nazi emblem with a sgammy cross? In this context, what distinction should be made between objects of historical value and vulgar reproductions? Is there any specific control on this subject at the Militaria-type exchanges? What police service is it provided for? Is this the responsibility of the local police or the federal police? In the last five years, can you tell me how many times fines or imprisonment have been imposed under section 1 of the Act of 23 March 1995 which I have just mentioned? Finally, following the images broadcast by the RTBF on Sunday, 28 October, what were the follow-up given or envisaged with regard to the exhibitors proposing Nazi objects, which were clearly reproductions of no historical value and tended to engage in the apology of the Nazi regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u98	Mr Gilkinet, your questions concerning the sale of military objects that may constitute an advertisement for Nazi ideology at the Militaria Stock Exchange in Ciney fall within the competence of the judiciary and the local level, the Condroz-Famenne police zone which covers the municipalities of Ciney, Hamois, Havelange and Somme-Leuze. I therefore refer you to these authorities. I will only answer your questions in general. The Penal Code does not provide for penalties for the sale of objects with the SS or Nazi emblem, the swastika or uniform. On the other hand, the Criminal Code provides for penalties for discrimination, segregation, acts of hatred or violence against a person, group, community or their members on the basis of race, colour, descent, national or ethnic origin. With regard to these offences, the moral element is important, in addition to the material element of the offence. For more information, I refer you to the Minister of Justice. With regard to your second question, there is no general directive providing for specific checks to be carried out on military scholarships of the Militaria type each time. Nevertheless, the mayor must take all measures to maintain public order in his territory, according to article 3 of the Integrated Police Act. The local police are competent, I quote, "for the basic police function, which includes all the administrative and judicial police missions necessary for the management of local events and phenomena in the territory of the police zone". Since a local police regulation provides for certain prohibitions, it goes without saying that compliance with the regulation is monitored by the local police. This monitoring of the local police, in collaboration with the Federal Judicial Police (PJF) of Namur, took place during the Ciney scholarship. Here too, for more information, I refer you to local authority and/or justice. For your information, the capacity was about 50 police officers from the local police and the PJF. The collaboration with the federal police in Namur was very discreet, with the aim of controlling the sale of weapons. Your third question falls within the competence of my colleague the Minister of Justice. With regard to your fourth question, if the local police have drawn up a report for violations of the police regulations or offences under the Criminal Code, the penalties provided for in the communal regulations or the rules of the Criminal Code apply. The secret of investigation does not allow us to go any further. This is also the responsibility of the local authority, the police regulations and the judiciary in relation to the criminal offence under the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u99	Minister, my question is indeed about the powers of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. I will question the Minister of Justice and consider bringing the matter to the level of the police council in the area concerned. Indeed, the facts that have been revealed by this report of the RTBF cannot be trivialized. It seems to us important to recall certain beacons concerning the diffusion of Nazi symbols and the sale of objects that can apologies for this very sad and unpleasant ideology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u100	Minister, cybercrime is becoming an increasing problem, not only for businesses but also for individual citizens. It was already announced in spring that the head of the FCCU had pointed out in a note that due to the staff shortage, it would be very likely that the FCCU would no longer be able to carry out its operational tasks. A total of 44 persons were provided for, while only 22 were actually employed in April 2018. Back then, it was already predicted that the number of FCCU employees would fall to 13. At the FCCU, 28 new colleagues were sought at the same time for two years. Apparently, the vacancies aren't filled out. An investigation was conducted by KPMG. Based on the results, recruitment for the FCCU should be accelerated and improved. In the past it was also said that missing a premium of EUR 180 per month would have been one of the reasons why not enough staff could be found for the FCCU. That seems strong to me, because in the world of human resources the theorem is that money is more of a submotivator than a primary motivator. We cannot separate the staff turnover from the FCCU from the increased activities at the RCCUs and less from the LCCUs of the local police zones. Minister, what were the main conclusions in KPMG's report? Why is it so hard to find suitable employees for the FCCU? How many employees do the RCCUs count, possibly per judicial district? You may also provide those data separately. What was the evolution in recent years? Do you have an overview of the number of LCCUs in the local police zones and the number of staff employed there? Why are there no more French-speaking staff at the FCCU at the moment? How could the number of employees at the FCCU grow again? Should there be specific transitional measures and support from elsewhere, now that there are only 13 more employees? Are there any operational tasks that can no longer be carried out in the current occupation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u101	Mr. Chairman, Minister, the press reported that the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) would unfortunately not be fully staffed. Of the total number of posts of 44 investigators required for the proper functioning of this service, only 13 would be filled. This situation is obviously problematic because of the increase in crimes committed at interface level and through electronic communications. It is therefore important that the security services be kept at a high level of responsiveness to threats to society. I come to my questions. Could you confirm or invalidate the facts? What is the general state of the situation within the FCCU? What measures have been planned to improve the situation? Has an evaluation been carried out on ways to significantly improve the conditions of well-being at work, which can be more decisive than the wage variable, in the face of competition from the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u102	Mr President, my colleague, the precarious situation in which the FCCU has been in place has been known for some time. At the beginning of May, a consultation was held between my office, that of my Justice colleagues, that of the Prime Minister, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. On the basis of this consultation and given that the strengthening of cybersecurity and the fight against cybercrime is a priority in the National Security Plan, we have asked my colleague Koen Geens to the Federal Police to develop a strategic police vision in this area by the end of 2018. In this regard, we stressed in particular the importance of paying particular attention to the themes of selection, recruitment, training and staff status, as well as to the quantitative and qualitative personnel requirements, as well as to the cohesion and functioning of the CCU, including the role of the LCCU. The recruitment and selection proposals to be made in the strategic plan must, of course, be linked to the findings and recommendations of KPMG's audit of the integrated police recruitment policy. Once the strategic plan is provided and the analysis is completed by my strategic cell, I will be able to answer more in-depth questions about the solutions. For questions relating to the current situation of the FCCU and aimed at understanding how this could be achieved, why the FCCU fails to attract staff and the first lines of thought to improve the situation, I refer you to the answer to oral question No. 25234 of May 16 of Veli Yüksel. As regards the lack of French-speaking staff at the FCCU and in response to the question of whether cybercrime is a purely Dutch-language matter, I would like to point out that the recruitment of new candidates does not make a distinction in the language role. After all, places are opened to French and Dutch-speaking candidates. The aim is to ensure a good representation of both national languages. It is due to the simultaneous departure of five French-speaking staff at the FCCU that a language problem has arisen. In December, a new French-speaking employee will join the FCCU and two additional French-speaking staff will be seconded to the FCCU on 5 November 2018 and 1 March 2019 respectively. Although the focus on additional recruitments is always on a balanced distribution between the two national languages, the police notes that more Dutch-speaking candidates postulate for a position at the FCCU. The cases of cybercrime and a fortiori of complex cybercrime are almost systematically cases with an international aspect insofar as suspects can operate from any place in the world. These are often files that cannot be directly associated with a specific location, which means that at the time the file is launched, the choice of the language in which the file will be processed is free. As soon as the location is oriented towards a district in Belgium, the language of the file can be changed and the file is taken over by the CCU of the district concerned. As regards your first question, Mr Vermeulen, as has already been said, KPMG's audit was aimed at examining the recruitment and selection policies of the integrated police as a whole. The audit therefore did not specifically focus on the recruitment of specialised ICT staff for the CCUs. The main conclusions of the KPMG report were as follows: too long and varying lead time of the selection procedure, low success rate, insufficient focus on qualitative candidates, no realistic assessment of future needs, no monitoring of full career and little diversity in the corps. As far as your third question is concerned, there has recently been a round question with the zones, but only very limited answers have been given. There is therefore no clear picture. However, we can see that the creation of the LCCUs is almost exclusively taking place within the Dutch-speaking part of the country, mainly in Antwerp and East- and West-Flanders. I will provide you with the figures you asked for regarding the number of employees immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll think about what else can be done. Combating cybercrime is a challenging job, just like everything that has to do with computer science. There are colleges that offer specialized training courses for computer crime prevention and cybersecurity. However, the question is to what extent the type of profiles that graduates there can easily be used in police services that have their own way of working. Maybe that's one of the problems. This is also mentioned in KPMG's conclusions. It is not the first time that I have told you that many police areas have identified computer crime, internet-related crime, as a growing incidence among their own population. The local police zones therefore want to attract specialised staff for first-line care and to be able to offer first-line solutions. I refer to an earlier reply from you. A lot of zoning chiefs tell me that for those LCCUs, they're being recruited pretty quickly from staff from the FCCU or the RCCU. One can then work closer to home or enjoy a number of other benefits. I will examine your answer and the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u104	Minister, thank you for the various elements of your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u105	Minister, as promised, I come back to you to follow up on your answer to my question of October 17. As a reminder, you indicated that the leakproofness tests were carried out every ten years. You added that these tests were last performed in 2012 on Doel 3 and 2015 on Tihange 2. These elements, in my view, deserve some clarification. Of course, I'm talking about the lids of the power plants. Have these tests been carried out by the operator himself or by subcontractors? If they are subcontractors, are there any mechanisms in place to mitigate the dilution of liability? Then you say that these tests are carried out every ten years. It comes to my mind that in the past these were carried out every three years. Do you confirm this information? If so, what was the reason for reducing the frequency of these tests as power plants age? How often are these tests carried out in neighbouring countries, for example in France? Finally, regarding Doel 3 and Tihange 2, since these reactors will close in 2022 and 2025 respectively, should I conclude that these were the last tests before they were closed? What about the other reactors? Can you transmit to the members of this committee a detailed programme of these tests for the entire nuclear fleet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u106	Mr de Lamotte, these tests are carried out with the support of a specialized subcontractor who carries out these activities under the responsibility and supervision of the operator ENGIE Electrabel. The operator shall remain the final responsible for the proper conduct of the tests and compliance with their criteria. The detailed procedures are in the possession of ENGIE Electabel. I invite you to contact them if you wish to enter these technical details. The frequency of tests has been ten years for many years. This has also been the subject of a special agreement with the safety authority, with an additional reduced pressure test following each stop for reloading or long-term maintenance. The aim of this test, which, on the other hand, is more frequent, is to ensure that there is no lack of isolation following the intervention before restarting the unit. The test conditions in Belgium (pressure of tests and periodicity) are sometimes different from those in other countries. They also differ between them. At the time, there were discussions between the safety authority and the operator to define a testing program to periodically verify the sealing of the enclosures. The operator is therefore following this agreed program and described in the safety reports with satisfactory results. For more information on this subject, I invite you to consult my answers to Parliamentary Questions Nos 24439 and 21940. The next tests have been planned this year for Doel 1 and 2 reactors, more precisely at the end of the current revisions. For the remaining reactors, Doel 3 and 4 and Tihange 1, 2 and 3, the latest tests date from 2012, 2014, 2016, 2015 and 2015 respectively. New tests are not planned in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u107	Minister, thank you. I will read your answer, which contains a number of technical elements. As you're referring to other answers, I'll go check them out. As the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactors will close in 2022 and 2025 respectively, I will ask ENGIE when the next test will take place. You didn't fix me on these elements. As these reactors will be closed in four or seven years, we would like to know whether tests will be carried out before they are closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic995x.u108	I put my question to the Minister. 27497 in a written question, since you have already exceeded the agreed hour. Debates of the European Parliament 27524 by Mr Flahaux was also converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gustin's 27513 was postponed. That concludes our agenda.
