ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u2	We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Ms Annemie Turtelboom, who resigned on 1 May 2018. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Ms Annemie Turtelboom, who resigned on May 1, 2018. The successor who will replace her is Frank Wilrycx, the first successor to the Antwerp constituency. The alternate is Mr. Frank Wilrycx, the first alternate in the electoral district of Antwerp. Mr Frank Wilrycx's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Mr. Frank Wilrycx's powers were validated in our June 19, 2014 session. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I would ask Mr Frank Wilrycx to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mr. Frank Wilrycx to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u3	Mr Frank Wilrycx will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr. Frank Wilrycx will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u4	Mr. Chair, Minister, last Sunday, incidents of unacceptable violence took place in the stands of the Beerschot - Antwerp match. There were stone throws, racist shouts, anti-Semitic songs and a banner on which a star of David was barred. This banner remained visible for much of the game. What happened there is intolerable. On that day, the police apprehended 39 people, including 4 minors. The football authorities also reacted quickly as it appears that some supporters of Beerschot are now banned from stadium for periods of up to two years. But I was surprised by the government's lack of response. You are quicker to react when incidents occur in the Brussels metropolis than when they occur in Antwerp. Yet, for the past few weeks, the list has been long. It is becoming urgent to act against these hooligan bands that are increasingly approaching violent right-wing environments. In our country, incitement to hatred, racism and anti-Semitism is punishable and can lead to imprisonment. It is the duty of the government to remind citizens of this. Minister, have any minutes already been drawn up as part of a football match for acts of racism? If so, did they result in prosecution? Do you intend to take action with your Minister of Justice to end the activities of these violent groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u5	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, I will be clear: anti-Semitism and racism are "despicable". It does not matter to me that racist and anti-Semitic songs and banners have a fun or playful reach: it is absolutely intolerable both in football stadiums and in our society. The police have images of cameras and police reports as well as those of the Football Cell. I hope from the bottom of my heart that the Antwerp Prosecutor's Office will conduct a thorough investigation and impose appropriate sanctions on the perpetrators and instigators of such acts. But know that the investigation is the responsibility of the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u6	Minister, it's never too late to do the right thing. I thank you for this good reaction, but it is a pity that it was not faster. Having said that, you condemn the facts but do not propose anything to act against them. You are sending the ball back to your colleague, the Minister of Justice, but it seems to me that it is also your responsibility to ensure that Antwerp is ordered. Because I've come to talk about it here before. Many criminal acts took place in Antwerp: organized gangs, the European cocaine capital and many other things. It is also time to put an order in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u7	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago I asked the Prime Minister about the fight against cybercrime in Belgium. He told me that we were finally going to provide ourselves with substantial resources to better combat this very important threat, both against our businesses, our citizens and certain critical infrastructures. In particular, the Prime Minister said that he would provide the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU) with additional staff to enable it to act more effectively. A year later, we are actually witnessing the virtual disappearance of this FCCU. A cry of alarm, a cry of distress was launched recently by his boss: while 36 people must be operational in order to be able to perform effective work, today there would remain only 8 people, all Dutch-speaking. It is therefore impossible for them to fulfil their tasks. However, this work is extremely important as it involves investigating cybercrime attacks. It is mainly thanks to the FCCU - but also to the CCB (Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium) - that we were little affected by the WannaCry virus in May 2017 or that we were relatively little affected in Belgium by the last global attack in February 2018. We are witnessing the disappearance of an essential service for international cooperation, strategic leadership in cybersecurity, and training. Mr Minister of the Interior, I ask you to react firmly so that Belgium can effectively combat these threats and remain credible at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u8	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, in my opinion you are talking about two different things. We have on the one hand the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB), and on the other the Federal Computer Crime Unit (FCCU), which performs police work on the net. These are two different things, even if they collaborate and maintain contacts. As far as the FCCU is concerned, you're right. The service has 44 open places, not 36, of which 22 are occupied today. But taking into account the projections in the near future, if nothing is done, this figure could be reduced to 13 places. So there is a big problem here. There is no budgetary problem, but it is clearly difficult to find adequate profiles for specialized functions. Two elements need to be taken into account. The first is the wages of these people. It is reported that in the RCCU (Regional Computer Crime Unit), individuals receive a bonus, which is not the case at the FCCU. As a result, there is a movement of people leaving the FCCU to join the RCCU, the regional agency. We are solving this problem. The second is more general and is the responsibility of the federal police. It's about our chances of recruiting. Three months ago, I asked for an audit of how we recruit. Indeed, thanks to the pilot project in Antwerp, I found that recruitment is much more effective when it is local. Next week I will receive the results of this audit by KPMG. I agree with you: I must act on this. We need to reorganize recruitment because there are too many holes in the frame. However, there is no budgetary problem. We cannot find, in time, enough candidates to fill these vacancies. I'll take this in my hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u9	Minister, I'm going back to the numbers. There are 44 people, but only 36 are operational. The others belong to the administrative framework. I'm talking about people who are in the field and who work as cybersecurity experts. I will believe you when you say that you will finally act and fill the framework, but already a year ago, the Prime Minister told me that the case was being heard, that it was going to fill the holes and be more effective in the future. I therefore ask you to take this issue very seriously. I ask you a more general question. You're telling me about the Federal Judicial Police. There is a serious problem with this police force in all areas of the fight against serious crime. Cybercrime, but also the Arts and Antiquities Unit that you have dismantled, the OECDFO, the Anti-Corruption Unit, are all subjects where we see a decrease in the resources granted at the federal level of the police. I've got the numbers right here. In none of these areas are there sufficient means for Belgium to seriously combat these threats, or to cooperate with the European and international levels. Where all European countries are strengthening and strengthening the central floor, you, Minister, are weakening it for the benefit of the Regions, and I strongly denounce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Objective 1 nuclear power plant was shut down last Monday. That is not the first time, but this time it is very disturbing. First of all, the leak is disturbing. It's a 1975 nuclear power plant, 43 years old. It goes without saying, therefore, that the cause is old age and that in itself is very worrying. What is even more worrying is the total lack of transparency. Last Monday, ten days ago, Electrabel communicated that the Target 1 shut down because of maintenance work on the cooling water circuit. Last weekend, it suddenly appears to be a leak in the nuclear part, in other words radioactive water is leaking out. From this I learn that for days Electrabel has covered the true cause of the problem. That is particularly disturbing. What I was then surprised about was your response through your cabinet on Monday. You said you weren't worried. Yesterday, at the VRT, we saw the former Director of Objective 1, who said that this was a serious leak and that this occurred for the first time in our country, while the current Director of Objective 1 said that we should make that point. Minister, I am very concerned about this and have a few questions. First of all, did Electrabel withhold the truth from all of us? I want to get a clear answer to that. Secondly, when were you informed by Electrabel? If you were informed, was it about maintenance work or a leak in the nuclear section? Thirdly, after yesterday's statements, are you still not concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u11	Mr President, Minister, should we be concerned about our nuclear safety or not? That is what we are all wondering after hearing the various reports on the Objective 1 nuclear power plant over the last few days. The messages quickly followed each other. According to the FANC and the operator, there was a small leak of a pinhead large. The leak also occurred only in the cooling line, which is only used in emergency situations. Because the pressure in the pipe is so high, that small leak allowed a number of litres of water per hour to escape into the nuclear section. The latter is of particular concern to us. It's a leak in the nuclear section. That is the first time this has happened in our nuclear power stations. What is even more worrying is the fact that a former top executive of the FANC and the current leadership of the FANC seem to disagree on the seriousness of the incident. This creates confusion, uncertainty and unrest among our citizens, our neighbours and our politicians. Who are we supposed to believe? Should we believe the former top man or the current top man? Who's right? If we do not have any doubts about one case, it is certainly about our nuclear safety. It is not for nothing that we in Belgium have an independent nuclear watchdog, the FANC, who has to watch over our nuclear safety. The fact that there has been an incident in the nuclear section and that there are different opinions among the experts about the seriousness of the incident does raise a lot of questions. Mr. Secretary, is this leak a single fact? Or is it likely that other similar leaks may occur elsewhere in the nuclear section? When I heard the news, I immediately wondered why this leak is now. Has there not been a thorough check on these pipes in the nuclear part of the extension of Objective 1? Not only am I worried, our residents are worried too. This incident is also being closely monitored in our neighbouring countries. From the Netherlands, the remark came that they had been informed too late. Mr Minister, why was the Netherlands informed so late? Are there no agreements on how to cooperate with neighbouring countries? In what way will they be further involved in the succession? Can you, as the Minister responsible, confirm that the FANC's statement that there has not been a problem for our security at any time is correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u12	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, Mrs Dierick, I have heard that the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety will meet on Tuesday under your Presidency. The experts of the FANC will at that time clarify all technical details. I think this is good. There will be an open explanation. What happened? What is the sequence of the facts? On Monday 23 April, a loss of water was observed in the primary circuit. It was a limited loss that was entirely within the normal collection mechanisms. The leakage was fully absorbed into that receiving mechanism. Because there was no explanation for the leak, the plant was shut down so that the water leak could be searched. That's the normal procedure. In the case of the slightest doubt, the plant is stopped in order not to take unnecessary risks. I would like to stress once again that the collection mechanism serves to prevent any water leaks. There has never been any risk that this water would end up in the environment. The water has remained in the collection mechanism. There hasn't been any penetration into the environment. They've gone looking for the leak. They found this on Thursday. It was located on a welding seam on an additional safety circuit connected to the primary circuit. This additional circuit is surrounded by concrete and is located close to the reactor vessel. This ensures that it cannot be restored and therefore it has been decided to bring forward the planned major maintenance, which had to take place between 29 May and 1 October. This offers the opportunity to look for the leak and close it. Then you can also see if the cause can be found for that leak. The plant is still and so one can look for the leak. Then the FANC and Bel V will decide, on the basis of the information available, whether additional actions need to be taken. The event was ranked as zero on the INES scale. Zero means that at no time has there been a danger to the population, workers or the environment, and that the functionality of the safety system has been guaranteed at all times. However, communication about the event did not work out, which only followed on 2 May. Normally, the operator, in this case Electrabel, is bound to do the grading within two days. The FANC received the grading on 30 April and then verified it and published it on 2 May. Mrs Dierick, as far as your question on the Netherlands is concerned, the neighbouring aid zones, including the Netherlands, were informed on 23 April that the nuclear power station had been shut down. The Netherlands is kept constantly informed, so I do not quite understand where that comment comes from. Perhaps the flow of information on the Dutch side did not go well. With us, however, the information was distributed on 23 April, when it was decided to shut down the plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u13	We have already read your explanation in the newspapers, Minister. There's nothing new about that. You might as well have read one of the articles from the Latest News. I didn't learn anything new from your answer. I asked three questions to which I did not receive an answer. I feel it's starting to itch with the N-VA again, I feel it. That'll be the radiation, I think. Mr Minister, it cannot be that Electrabel, a private company that runs the nuclear power plants, withholds information from the public. It can't be! [[Applause]] The fact that you do not condemn this today is very regrettable for a Minister for Security. Nuclear safety is not something to laugh about. The private entrepreneur makes profits from old nuclear power plants that are beginning to show leakages and if there is a leakage, he also keeps that from the public. That's a disgrace. As a minister, you must absolutely condemn it with all your strength.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer and confirmation that there was no risk to our security at any time. Whether it was a large or a small leak, everything has to be investigated. You have also said that we will take the necessary time to do so. So let there be no uncertainty about this. We must also honestly admit that we as politicians do not have all the necessary nuclear knowledge. We need to have faith in the FANC. We have to trust that they do have that expertise and that they will also take the necessary measures. Let us be clear, if the FANC says that there is a problem with the safety of Objective 1, then that nuclear reactor will not be started now, nor will it be launched later. There must be absolute certainty, it must be absolutely safe. CD&V has faith in the FANC, but we are alert and critical. This is the first time that such an incident has occurred in the nuclear section. As far as we're concerned, it should be the last time. This is a step too far, we must have absolute control of it. As far as communication is concerned, we are strict and critical about it. Not only the communication of the FANC must be transparent and clear, but your comment on the operator's communication was also correct. We cannot tolerate this at all and must take further action. Last but not least, I would like to call on Minister Marghem, as well as all the other Energy Ministers, to implement quickly the commitments made in the framework of the federal energy strategy and the Energy Pact. 2025 is the year in which all nuclear power stations are finally shut down. That will be there soon and we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u15	Minister De Bolle, Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, was invited to take up high office at the head of Europol. It's all to his honor and we can only congratulate him. According to the notice issued to the Monitor on February 20, 2018, it was announced that the employment was vacant and that entry into service was scheduled for May 1. It's May 3rd and I wanted to make sure that the procedure went smoothly. Has the selection board that has to rank the candidates completed its work? There were seven candidates in competition, four Dutch-speaking and three French-speaking. Is this ranking established today? To read the press, it seems that a candidate would have favors and his name is already communicated. It is not known whether others are entitled to a favourable ranking or not. We know that after that, you have to make the proposal to the government after a reasoned opinion from the Federal Police Council. Has this opinion already been delivered? What's the status of the procedure? Finally, if the selection board has been able to select several candidates, is this not an opportunity to rebalance the linguistic aspects? We know that, almost since the beginning – apart from a short period for a French-speaking commissioner general – we have had only a succession of Dutch-speaking commissioners general. It is also known that most of the senior security and military command functions are carried out by Dutch speakers. Rightly, including on the benches of the majority – in any case on the francophone side – there has been some expression of dissatisfaction or dissatisfaction with these obvious imbalances. Of sixteen high-level military intelligence and security command positions, only two are assumed by Francophones to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u16	Mr Maingain, I would also like to extend my congratulations to Mrs De Bolle, who has been leading Europol since yesterday. With regard to the appointment of the new Commissioner General (CG), the procedure is laid down in the law and will be followed scrupulously. Seven people applied for this position. During the Easter holidays, the selection board interviewed the seven candidates. Only four applications were successful. The three unsuccessful candidates can still file an appeal until next Saturday. We are now waiting to see if any appeals will be brought. The selection committee will then make the final ranking of the four candidates in the competition and, after that, an opinion will also have to be sought from the Federal Police Council. Finally, Koen Geens and I will present the candidate of our choice to the government. Meanwhile, Mr. Claude Fontaine of the DGJ (Directorate-General of the Judicial Police) temporarily replaced Ms. De Bolle until the appointment of the CG. With regard to the linguistic balance in the police, the law says that the balance must be respected for the four positions on the executive committee and I will not fail to follow the law rigorously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u17	Minister, we can assume that the procedure should end in the month – by the end of May at the latest – in hearing the steps that still need to be taken. I do not know the four people who have the favour of the selection board at the moment, but I have no doubt that the MR will be vigilant, if there were one of these four Francophones, so that there may one day be a Francophone commissioner general at the head of the federal police. I think that would be happy in the balance. I already thank our colleagues in the MR for their attention!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement contains a number of very clear objectives, including priorities on road safety in clear guidelines. The most important of these is the halving of the number of road victims by 2020. The government agreement also defines the increase in the number of opportunities and the level of enforcement as targets. Thirdly, there is the better approach to repeated offences, including an examination of the driving licence with points. That research was presented yesterday after four years and it contains many interesting elements, with pros and contras and alternatives. Mr President, I would also like to address you. Parliament got the scoop of the investigation, but what surprised us was that during the presentation the Minister already drew his conclusions and de facto removed the driving licence with points. The reason for this was that too few controls are being carried out in our country. That is a strange argument for a minister responsible for road safety. It must be said that the study contains many elements relating to the level of enforcement in our country. I hope, Minister, that you will take up this study and take up its conclusions. The objective, and therefore subjective, risk of being caught in our country, is particularly low in our country, the study of VIAS. This except for speeding. Especially with regard to alcohol controls, we still have a long way to go. One can, on average, drive about 85 000 kilometres drunk on our roads before being caught. This study shows once again how bad is the level of enforcement in our country. Minister, this is not the first time I have questioned you about this. My question therefore makes sense. We know you as an advocate of the driving licence with points. We heard your Flemish colleague yesterday about this too. The point driving licence only makes sense if it is structurally supported by a sufficiently high level of enforcement. There is the objective of the coalition agreement. In what way will you realize it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u19	Mr van den Bergh, I can assure you that every day efforts are being made to increase the chances of being caught. What have we already done? Entering mobile controls. In another way, deactivate our operatives. For example, the last BOB campaign was in the same place for a short time to move. In the world of social media, these cases are reported directly. Furthermore, we have introduced the sampling devices so that we can do much more checks within the same time frame. Those cases have happened. The States-General of Road Safety has decided or imposed 1.2 million alcohol controls every year. They are neatly distributed between federal and local police: 80% for local and 20% for federal police. Unfortunately, we don't register the local police checks. I am committed to getting that registration in order so that we can also get reports from local controls. 20 %, which is 240 000 checks, is therefore federal. In 2017, we did not get there, but at 92 % or more than 221 000 contoles. I do not include the figures for the PDO campaign. These figures, 430 000, should actually be added. So I really do not agree with the fact that the chance of getting caught in this country is non-existent. The checks are done and they are done on a regular basis. There are also some flash cameras. It is clear that we need to go further along this path and increase controls. As you just said, you have a partner in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would also like to thank you for your commitment to be a partner in our fight for safer traffic. That is also essential. Belgium is still dangling in the back of the European platoon on road safety. We are not just concerned with statistics. We are mainly concerned with avoiding victims in traffic. You indicated a number of elements about the organisation of the controls. They are a good thing, of course, but the figures in the report show in black and white that the number of checks is still far too low, certainly compared to our neighbouring countries. Another element is that these are not just alcohol controls, but also, for example, the maintenance of vehicles, the checks on paperwork, and that sort of thing. In this respect too, we are still a long way behind. I'd like to quote one more element. You referred to the local police's registration. But you announced a 98 percent increase in full-time equivalents in the federal road police two years ago in Parliament. I hear that 23 percent of this is still not filled in today, so I think that a little bit more can be done. It is two to twelve to achieve the objectives of road safety. I think we're going to have to do a lot more. We will have to do everything we can, with a good level of enforcement and with a driving licence with points as a closing point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u21	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, bpost is a public enterprise that has been able to modernise to face the new challenges of the 21st century. Everyone recognizes that this modernization has also been made possible by the workers who have been able to assume their responsibilities and adapt. In the last two years, bpost, it is: 2.5 billion euros put on the table for PostNL, 700 million euros to buy Radial, a turnover increase of more than 20% and – let us all agree here – a new postal law that consolidates its position. Deputy Prime Minister, when bpost announces a restructuring plan under which 500 jobs will be eliminated while removing red boxes on Saturdays, it does not pass. The workers feel like the turkeys of the farce, which one can understand. Let's be honest, we're not totally surprised. Your government gave a very clear signal in 2015 by allowing bpost to make unlimited use of subcontracting. Today, bpost is engulfing in the breach. Some even see this restructuring as a stock market manoeuvre – Radial's hidden cost and forecast downwards. In one month, shareholders saw the value of their shares divided almost by two. In other words, workers are now paying for the approximations of their management. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, how many jobs exactly are involved in this restructuring plan? Do you intend to take initiatives to bring about social peace within the company? Do you not feel that a public company has a social responsibility, especially when it employs low-skilled workers? I will be very attentive to your answers, which will also be listened to by hundreds of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u22	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the announcement of bpost is obviously a hard blow for staff, whether it is the net loss that is announced at call center level or the great uncertainty that prevails for the cleaning and catering sectors for which subcontracting is announced. Strike actions have already been announced for next week by a union. Two other unions, at lunchtime, reported that they were breaking all dialogue with management. The social climate is therefore clearly tense. At the same time, it must be noted that bpost's share has lost almost 43% since March, in part, obviously, due to poor results as a result of the integration of the Radial company. Therefore, there are clearly issues of strategic choice that have been made and that are at the root of the current situation. Deputy Prime Minister, today I would like to focus on staff because the social climate is very tense. I therefore propose, given the breakdown of discussions and negotiations, that you send a social mediator to the company to try to renew the dialogue. That seems indispensable to me. Furthermore, can you give us guarantees that as far as call centres are concerned, there will be no relocation abroad? Can you give us guarantees, with regard to the decisions to outsource activities, that the current bpost staff will be taken over in these companies? Let me remind you here of your new postal law. We talked about her, not so long ago. In the explanatory memorandum of your law, it is written black and white that one of the objectives of this new postal law is to ensure social peace and employment. Your responsibility today, therefore, is to ensure social peace, but also to provide guarantees of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u23	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming years bpost intends to remove some 500 jobs. This is mainly about cleaning services and catering. The contact centres would also be affected. There, one job on three jobs would be removed. Bpost recently moved 200 jobs to India to better control the costs. For us, however, Minister, that is a big mistake. You have made it quite clear that the digitalisation of society must not result in an export of jobs. If there is room and opportunities in this area, we must be able to use them mainly in our own country. During the past Friday the staff laid down the work here and there, especially in Wallonia. The unrest among the staff is, of course, understandable. We have also noticed that the share of bpost has been hit hard in the last few days after weak quarterly results. For us, the strategic objectives are not just profit and profitability. Public enterprises also have a social role and an exemplary role. Minister, allow me to be clear. We are in favour of a government that is reluctant on operational issues. However, this does not mean that the shareholder or main shareholder cannot have an opinion and that the main shareholder cannot play a role in certain crucial matters. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I come to my questions. First of all, did you discuss the savings operation with Bpost? Secondly, do you think it would be advisable, particularly in the case of crucial jobs such as cleaning jobs, to abandon the position on human resources? Thirdly, will the dismantling of customer contact centres not jeopardise the quality of consumer service?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u24	Deputy Prime Minister, the bpost staff is angry and there is something wrong with it! Indeed, we are witnessing a joint attack on the part of the management: elimination of Saturday breaks, reduction of jobs in call centers, outsourcing of catering and cleaning, etc. Who wins and who loses in this operation? For me, it is clear: the first loser is employment. From 90 to 130 jobs in call centres and 353 jobs in outsourced activities are abolished. On the part of a government that prides itself on promoting job creation, it is quite surprising. Who also loses? Wages, because the abolition of Saturday's cancellations will result in a reduction in salary among postal workers. Similarly, when we outsource catering and cleaning, we actually transfer jobs to underpaid activities, even if it is certain that it is not very leafy at bpost... Who loses there again? The population, not only with the removal of the liftings, but also – it is the peak! – with the subcontracting of call centers. The bpost release promises to help its customers better. But in what way? By removing charges equivalent to 90 or even 130 full-time jobs. So, an improvement in customer support would require the elimination of jobs? It's quite special as a logic! Who wins? It's the shareholders. It is well known that these measures are not intended to ensure the sustainability of the company, but to increase their profits, which continue to rise annually. For example, they reached EUR 329 million in 2017. Of course, the problems exist. Thus, society's action has declined because of an adventurous and dangerous policy of buying companies. I am thinking in particular of Radial, in the United States. Having said that, is it up to the workers to pay the price and to make up for losses resulting from profitable operations only to the shareholders? Then how can call centres help the population when one third of jobs are eliminated? Will you have to explain this miracle to me? As a majority shareholder, are you going to block these anti-social plans? Finally, it is said that catering and cleaning are not the essential activities of bpost, but is the buy-back at the loss of companies its main mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. As you all know, bpost is a company in the throes of change. You probably know that a 7% decrease in standard mail is expected in 2018. But next to that, package activity saw an increase of almost 30% in 2017. The net impact of these changes on employment is positive: 400 full-time jobs are created in a structural and clear way thanks to the increase in activity linked to packages. Bpost is changing. It is true that the nature of the profession is changing. But looking at the situation as a whole, we see that this transformation leads to the creation of jobs. However, this is a transformation that leads to a different way of working. Bpost has indeed announced to the Joint Committee that it wants to make a number of changes in three areas. The first concerns the contact centres. For the contact centres there is talk of a reduction in activity in the long term, which would threaten 90 to 130 places. Mr Van Hees, you do not understand that we can improve services with a negative impact on employment. Today, customers who go through bpost no longer do it for letters but more and more for packages. Most consumers expect bposts not to be transmitted to them by call centers but to be accessible online. This is what all bpost competitors are doing today. Therefore, the transformation of the method of transmission of information is entirely logical. On the other hand, I do expect bpost to make maximum efforts to maintain employment and to set up maximum programmes to redirect workers who would lose their jobs at the contact centre to other jobs at bpost. There is a demand for new work at bpost, and I think it is absolutely logical that the priority should be given to those who already work at bpost today. Then there are two other activities, the cleaning service and catering. Both activities have already been partially outsourced today, with the problem that those who carried out those tasks internally had a particularly weak framework. The fact that a postal company has its catering activities and its cleaning activities carried out by an external company is a very common practice today, including in other sectors of the industry. It seems logical to me that such tasks should be carried out by companies which have the right framework for this purpose. In this respect, too, as Minister, I will see to it that the maximum level of employment is maintained and that the workers who are carrying out this activity today can continue to do so with a much better framework than can be done today at bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u26	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I am disappointed by your answer. But I'm not losing hope. I know that you sometimes need weeks, even months, to regain wisdom, to hear reason, a fortiori when it is carried by several parties, including the majority, as well as by the unions. It is true that bpost is in transformation. But it has been constant for years and always with the help of the workers and their representatives. Today, several red signals are on, when three unions and four parties are calling you to tell you that this is not the way to go because you are removing jobs. It is true that others are created, but this does not justify the elimination of 500 in another bpost sector. The success of some workers must not penalise others to cover a bad investment by management, a choice that does not pay off. Mr President, I am disappointed, but I invite all the workers, the unions and those who have come to the gallery today to think carefully so that tomorrow perhaps – I still have the hope, Mr Deputy Prime Minister – you and your majority, as the main shareholder – that's what you are, that's what we are – can change this decision and make sure that we continue to develop this beautiful company, even if certain choices are unfortunate, to regain the full enthusiasm, full employment and full work of the bpost workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u27	Deputy Prime Minister, behind the figures, there are workers and families. You have succeeded in transforming the loss of employment for the people concerned into a job gain. Can I tell you how shocking this can be for the workers concerned who, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, will lose their jobs? On the other hand, you have given no guarantee that job losses in call centres will not end with job relocation abroad. I also note that you are trying to provide guarantees, although they seem weak to me, for the workers concerned to be taken over by the subcontractors. This will depend on the financial conditions. I asked you to send a social conciliator, since today the social dialogue is broken. This is your responsibility and I ask you once again to do so. I can only conclude by seeing that, in fine, as the principal shareholder, you assume a heavy responsibility in fact. Indeed, large financial and strategic bets have had a direct impact on employment. In relation to the decisions taken, especially the one on Radial, your responsibility is full and complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u28	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, bpost is indeed a company in transformation. The competition is very tough. But that shouldn't be an excuse to do a race to the bottom. It should not be an excuse to make savings just for the sake of savings. I believe that the success of bpost lies also in the fact that there is social peace. Social peace in the company must be guaranteed as much as possible. I welcome your call for the reorganisation to ensure maximum job retention and to take full advantage of all opportunities for doing so. You must combat any anomalies between the conditions of employment of private employees and the conditions of employment of public staff. Wage and working conditions must be respected for both private and personal staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u29	Mr President, Minister, on call centres, you are telling us that we are changing the logic of information. But the real problem is that if you listened to the workers of the company, you would hear that those of the call center say: "We are already too little today and jobs will be removed." What will be the result? It is that people who are going to phone, who do not necessarily have access to the Internet, will take hours on the phone to get simple information. That's the reality! As far as jobs are concerned, you are actually making additions, subtractions. There are more here, less there... but there are people behind these jobs. They're not just numbers! People who lose their jobs, for you, this is obviously not a problem! "Jobs, jobs, jobs," but here it's more like "C4, C4, C4"! Over the long term, we have increased from 39,000 jobs in 2003 to 25,000 in 2017. This is not an increase in jobs! It's not "Jobs, jobs, jobs," it's "C4, C4, C4"! At the PTB, we do not have this vision of the post, which is to race for profit, to invest in lame ducks in the United States to realize, then, that the action has fallen. No, we need a real public service that is there for the community and respectful of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u30	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, in recent years the phenomenon of fake news has spread over the Internet. This false information is propagated for different purposes. Some are intended to deceive the reader, or even the elector, and to influence his or her opinion on a particular subject. He was seen in the United States or France during the presidential elections. Others are made of all parts with a catchy title to, for example, increase the number of visitors to a site. Faced with this phenomenon, the web giants have put in place a mechanism to penalize the media carrying these lies and regain the confidence of their users. But what about Belgium? In this regard, I have already had the opportunity to question your colleague, the Minister of Justice, on January 11. As far as you are concerned, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have launched a survey of citizens on this subject. Indeed, a website will be opened at stopfaknews.be. In addition, you have set up an expert group that is expected to make its recommendations by June 25. On behalf of the MR Group, I would first like to say that we were particularly pleased to hear that you are taking this kind of initiative because the free, critical and plural press is essential in our democratic society. Indeed, we see that these fake news are a real danger. My colleague, Kattrin Jadin, is actively considering ways to combat this phenomenon. The exercise is delicate because it is a matter of finding a balance between the imperative of protecting freedom of expression and the fight against misinformation. Mr Minister, pending the conclusions of the expert group, can you tell us what we can already recommend to our fellow citizens to guard against these fake news? What do you think of the international mechanism presented by Reporters Without Borders, which aims to encourage the media to disseminate reliable information via a label certifying compliance with standards of transparency and ethics? Are the Belgian media involved in this process of certification that fights upstream against this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u31	Mr Flahaux, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to go back to the terminology. We are a little used today to using the expression fake news. Above all, some colleagues, internationally, talk about fake news all the news they don't like. I don't think we're talking exactly about that. We are, in fact, talking about orchestrated misinformation with the sole purpose of manipulating opinion, destabilizing certain people, harming certain organizations. This phenomenon has been shown to have had an influence on the elections in the United States and France. I don't think we can keep our eyes closed and tell us that this is going to work out for ourselves. I think freedom of expression is crucial. I will be very clear: the last thing we need in Europe is a kind of information ministry that would establish for us what the truth is and what the truth is not. For me, all expressions are free. But of course, if foreign groups or even foreign governments organize themselves to try to destabilize our society and polarize public opinion, we cannot let this pass. Our initiative has three axes. Firstly, as you say, the formation of a group of experts, with the aim of formulating proposals. Secondly, a popular consultation, because it is a subject that affects everyone, and on which everyone must be able to speak. Finally, on 17 May, a discussion on this topic will be held with some stakeholders. In broad terms, I think it is quite normal to ask for more transparency from the major online platforms. If I see content, is it because my friends are offering it to me, or is it because someone paid for me to see it, or is it simply because this platform thinks it fits my profile? More transparency is a first element. A second element is more media education. Today, when I read a newspaper, I understand what is advertising and what is not advertising. On-line, today, it's not very clear. Providing more training would be a good thing. Last, there should be a network of fact checkers that can react quickly to some new highlights. It is a delicate balance that we are trying to find, preserving free expression and a critical press that works well, without being naive in the face of the polarization that some foreign powers are trying to establish here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u32	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer which shows that you are particularly sensitive to this issue. Recently, with three of our colleagues, Egbert Lachaert, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Peter Dedecker, we went on a mission to Latvia where this issue is particularly topical because of Russia's influence. We discussed it with the NATO officials, who were present on the spot. Deputy Prime Minister, I believe you will do this with great intelligence. On behalf of the Liberal Members, I can say that we want to strike a good balance between freedom of expression and serious information. This aspect is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the telephone, the smartphone, the Internet and television are no longer something we can imagine, but in Belgium we pay far too much for it. A conscious consumer compares prices, but in fact he also pays far too much. This is due to the duopoly of Telenet and Proximus. There is hardly any competition and the consumer pays. Minister, we have said many times in this Chamber that this situation is not good. You agree. In addition to the overpaying consumer, the brake on innovation is equally damaging. Fortunately, the BIPT, the watchdog of the telecoms sector, has now also issued a report drawing the same conclusions. Minister, what will you do with the recommendations contained in the BIPT report?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, you stress that, since the beginning of this legislature, I have stressed the need for more competition in our telecoms market. More competition leads to lower prices and better supply and more innovation for telecom customers. The main responsibility lies with the independent regulator, the BIPT. Nevertheless, I have also taken a number of accompanying measures. For example, Easy Switch makes it easier to change fixed operators. Strengthening the price comparison should make it easier for consumers to look for lower rates. The BIPT has made a new market analysis, which will be delivered to the European Commission. She has one month to respond. The BIPT made the analysis that more competition would be a good thing and put forward a number of measures. Three of them are delicious. Firstly, the reduction of wholesale charges for cable access and its calculation on the basis of real costs and not on the basis of retail prices. That is a step forward. Those who use the wholesale prices at a lower price can, of course, make the competition play more against the classic players. Secondly, an opportunity is created for an offer in internet only third party access. Until now, fixed telephony, the Internet and television have been required to be combined. We know very well that it is enough for many people today to access the Internet alone and to obtain other services via, for example, streaming services. This will be an element that will lead to much more innovation in the field of competition. A third element is the opening up of the fiber network. This will be done in a way that rewards the investment sufficiently. I am glad that BIPT is fully on the side of the consumer. I hope that the European Commission will do the same. The combination of the measures that I have taken, together with a market analysis that is designed to increase competition, increase renovation and lower prices, is a good thing for the consumer. I hope the Commission shares this view.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u35	Minister, the Internet and communication are basic rights. The free market is the best guarantee for low prices and innovation. You yourself said that you were on the side of the consumer. I am thinking of accompanying measures such as Easy Switch and best rate.be. You also say that you will proceed with the BIPT recommendations. I have no doubt that you will do this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost two years ago, the British decided by a very narrow majority to leave the European Union. Then many in our country and in Europe asked how that would happen, what the modalities would be, what would replace them. Minister, almost two years later, we still don't know. The British Government still does not know what it wants and remains hopelessly divided as to how the British actually see their relationship with the European Union. One could mention a bad soap opera. I read in the media that May will be a tough month for the British Prime Minister. I do not need to repeat what the consequences could be if the divisions persist: a hard Brexit, with a loss of 40 000 jobs, and a loss of two billion on an annual basis for our country. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the vulnerability of our open economy. Our country and our interest require that the period that follows be kept as short as possible. One can make them last until the end, but then a hard Brexit follows and it is not advisable, as already mentioned. Minister, how do you assess the current malaise surrounding the Brexit in British politics? Can a hard Brexit still be avoided? How will our country effectively ensure that it is avoided and that our companies can continue to trade with the United Kingdom as cheaply as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u37	Mr President, Mr Dewael, ladies and gentlemen, how is the Brexit going? So far, we are negotiating the first phase, which consists of the conclusion of a withdrawal agreement with transitional provisions. There is a great deal of solidarity and unanimity between the 27 countries in order to reach an agreement with Great Britain on the financial and mutual rights of citizens. The preservation of peace in Ireland is also very important. At the same time, we started discussions on the second phase, the future relationship with Great Britain. It's just that we're headed for a hard Brexit. Given the current information from London, it will be a negotiation process on a foreign trade agreement, such as CETA for Canada. That's gonna be an interesting moment. Britain is a very important partner for Belgium. It is the fourth largest trading partner for Belgium, the second largest for Flanders and the largest for Zeebrugge. So, like many partners in Belgium, we are prepared to do more than just conclude a free trade agreement. For example, we are prepared to establish a customs union and there are discussions in London in this respect: an amendment on a customs union was tabled in one of the two chambers, but not in the entire parliament. We are now waiting for a clear and clear position from London. Unless the current red line evolves, there will be a free trade agreement, in which we will strongly defend the interests of Belgian companies. If the situation in Great Britain is changing, then we are prepared to move forward, for example with a customs union. It is a pity, however, that we have to wait so long, hopefully not too long, for Britain's final position. Perhaps the month of May will be a very beautiful month for the Prime Minister of Great Britain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The current legal uncertainty does indeed weigh on business. This is not a good thing for our economy. I also take this opportunity to express my support for you and Prime Minister Michel, who made a speech this morning in the European Parliament, for your defence of the rule of law in the European Union. The European Union is a union of standards and values. That is not evident in every Member State and I would like you, as Foreign Minister, and the Prime Minister to keep knocking on that nail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am among those who take pleasure in reading the Dutch-speaking press and specifically De Standaard in which we had the opportunity to see, no later than yesterday, that obviously you were going to give again gifts to the pharmaceutical industry. It is obviously a great title, but on the other hand, when we read in depth what it is going on, it is interesting to note that the desire you have is to change the system of reimbursement of medicines that are already on the market, which have made all the necessary journey to obtain a refund but which, while on the market, also benefit from clinical studies that are under way (Phase 3, Phase 4) and which allow, in some cases, new indications to be found. So far, these new indications required a new visit to the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products to obtain a refund. Interest is that there was an obligation to reduce prices in order to benefit from the repayment of these new indications. Here, your proposal is simply to say that there would no longer be a reduction in prices for this new refund and that the procedure would be simplified. It is obvious that if that is your intention, I see it as a fundamental interest for patients. But this idea is denounced by the Dutch-speaking socialist unions relayed by Solidaris. Minister, what is your position with respect to the unions? Do you think that there will be a decrease in drug prices still in 2017 and 2018 that will allow innovation, as was the case in 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u40	Mr Thiéry, what is this really about? This is because Belgian citizens have the right to have access to the most innovative medicines as soon as the indication as to their availability on the market is clear. Improving access to innovative medicines for patients – as we have done in the past for cancer immunotherapy – has already saved many lives and increased the quality of life for many of them. As I always say, the patient is at the heart of our concerns. Obviously, some mutualities have other priorities and prefer their interests to those of patients, which I do not accept. To arrive at this procedure, we relied on a study by Professor Annemans who developed this new measure in collaboration with INAMI. Why facilitate this access? For the simple and good reason that, compared to other European countries, Belgian pharmaceutical companies introduce considerably fewer claims for new indications of a medicinal product that is already refundable. This is due to the fact that the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products systematically asks for a price reduction to compensate for part of the additional impact, regardless of the added value of the new indication. We have therefore established a much simpler new procedure to help our Belgian patients access their treatment more quickly. The attitude of the pharmaceutical industry is deplorable. But that is the reality throughout Europe. It is only for this reason that I have taken the decision to adapt this measure with the aim of ensuring that all Belgians have access to these medicines with added value in small indications. You pointed out that prices did not necessarily fall. This is possible if the budgetary effect is reduced. In other cases, however, there is still the possibility of asking for a price reduction either initially or via the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products. There is now an action of the socialist mutualities. They say I don't live up to the agreements with the pharmaceutical industry. Nothing could be further from the truth. There have been even greater price increases to give our patients exactly access to innovation. I find it scandalous that such a political game is being played on patients' hoods! I shall therefore distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you. I will keep in mind from your intervention that the primary objective, pending further indications, is to save time in the reimbursement of medicines already circulating on the market. It's clearly in the patient's interest. Basically, you never do anything but respect the pact for the pharmaceutical industry, which was concluded in 2015 and which encouraged a significant reduction in the price of innovative medicines and thus their entry into the market. Again, you have acted solely in the interest of the patient, who remains at the centre of our concerns. That is what we have always wanted in all the files that are being examined in the Committee on Public Health. That is why, Madam Minister, I thank you. Again, ladies and gentlemen, I invite all of you to pay close attention to misinformation, which is becoming almost systematic in the field of health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u42	Minister, this legislature has already opened a great many yards for justice. You've already worked hard. You didn't even start from zero, you started from minus 20. One of these important yards is the execution of the sentence. You are planning a new code of conduct in this area. Our group welcomes that, because, as you know, we are not fans of ministerial letters that circumvent a sentence as it were and ensure that there is very little left of the original sentence. That wrings. It is therefore very good that you also want to speak plain language here. I think this is necessary, too. Minister, the sentence is a very old one. I don't have to explain that to you. You know that better than anyone. Your predecessors also struggled with that. In 2009 I was present in the courtroom, then as a lawyer and not as a Member of Parliament, when former judge De Smedt in Antwerp exonerated someone out of frustration because he appeared before his seat for the umpteenth time without having seen the prison inside. Today we also read that investigators and other judges are concerned because they feel that it is not quite right. The case of the nurse who was murdered by a polypleger who had been released early by a circular letter without any follow-up, makes this all very painfully sharp again. Minister, this leaves no one unmoved, no society, no me, and I do not believe you either. I believe that this is a matter for all of us. Mr Minister, my questions are actually very simple. When will your codex be executed and can we delete those letters? This circular was a temporary measure that came after the strike wave because of the overcrowding in prisons. At the time, there were good reasons to find a solution. Will you evaluate and revise that circular? Will you change it? How will there be better follow-up of prisoners who have been released early? Will you consult with your Flemish colleague? Finally, how can we work together to ensure that the penalties are properly implemented and that a punishment can be renewed and punished as provided for in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u43	Minister, I have often questioned you about accelerated early release, week-to-week detentions and the expansion of the ankle-band regime, also known as unpaid leave in lawyers' circles. These are all measures that create an atmosphere of impunity. Your manifest refusal to impose sanctions is actually a gift for criminals from all over the world. I believe that the terrible event of the past few weeks, a polypist who killed a nurse, is a painful example of that. Soft healers make stinky wounds. A softer approach makes crime harder. Mr De Wit referred to 2009. I will refer to 2014, when Bart De Wever said before the elections that it was impossible to conclude that our criminal execution policy is not working now; it has become a penalty discharge policy. He was right about that. But, Mrs De Wit, this government is simply continuing that policy of impunity, that policy of discharge. Savings prime on security. Depopulation prisons has become a kind of fetish. A maximum of 10 000 prisoners, as if a ceiling could be imposed on them at all. Minister, you are depopulating the prisons by not even punishing small crimes at all and by making the ridiculous ankle straps a rule. A Flemish justice system is farther away than ever before. I have two brief and clear questions for you, Minister. First of all, how can you explain your directive on accelerated early release of offenders to the family of that murdered nurse? Secondly, I wonder when you will finally turn the current penalty cancellation policy into a criminal execution policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u44	Secretary of State, day in and day out of his policemen and security services in pursuit of criminals. Magistrates do everything they can to ensure, not always in easy circumstances, that convicted persons are punished. However, the final sentence, the execution of the sentences, seems to go wrong, Minister. However, in the coalition agreement, we had very clearly agreed that there would be a strengthening of the sentence, that this would be a priority for this government. Today we see that the opposite seems to be being done. Short-term punishments, people who have been sentenced to three years or less, must today be subject to only one to eight months of their sentence. Long-term punishments, people who have been in prison for up to ten years, are granted extended penitentiary leave. A week in, a week out of prison, with no follow-up or control. Mr Minister, the facts that have recently confronted us with a terrible truth are unacceptable to me. The fact that a nurse is murdered by a suspect who was apparently sentenced to three years imprisonment and who had already left prison after eight months is unacceptable to me. A convicted terrorist who is sentenced to three years imprisonment is released after four months and is intercepted again because he is planning terrorist attacks again. Seven hundred and eleven long-term punishments are granted extended penitentiary leave. Of these 70 had to be withdrawn from the extended penitentiary leave. Minister, what are you going to do to carry out the penalties effectively? What are we going to do to protect society better than it is now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only answer the questions put to me with my hands behind my back. A nurse from my prison system was murdered, a completely unnecessary death. No one among us will be indifferent to this. I will, on behalf of all of you, extend my warmest condolences to the family. The murder investigation is ongoing. That's a second reason why I'm answering with my hands behind my back. After all, the secret of the investigation is sacred. I would have expected Mrs Pas' question, Mrs De Wit's and Mrs Van Cauter's questions as well, but they give me the opportunity to make clear how the majority decision-making on this misguided prison circular was achieved. There's something in politics called a political compromise. This is normally defended collectively, especially at times when a minister's hands are tied on his back. On 14 May 2017, I proposed to the government that the provisional detention of people who had committed a relatively small crime be limited in time. I have repeatedly suggested this, because I pay a great deal of compensation to people who are being held innocently. This was ideologically unacceptable to some parties. I then referred to the circulars you are calling into question again today. The government has accepted them and has promised to carry them collectively with me. For the rest, I would just like to say that the overcrowding that has been repeatedly highlighted by the Committee against Tottering during the strikes is experienced by all of you in the same way. I have to answer these questions almost weekly about the number of ground sleepers that are still in our prisons. At the beginning of the legislature, I prepared and addressed the overpopulation by two plans, namely the master plan III in prisons and the master plan in internment in the field of internment, together with colleagues Jambon and De Block, and could ultimately be accepted by the entire government. I have closed the prison in Tilburg on the basis of the same coalition agreement, which you so eagerly invoke. This has led to a saving of 35 million, which the Budget Minister had imposed on me. Colleagues, I want to do something about the overpopulation. I also depend on the Minister in charge of the Directorate of Buildings. I would not like to have it, because I know how much Mr Jambon is trying, that he is being addressed to the fact that we are not building the prisons in Haren and Dendermonde. I would blame my group for this, because Mr Jambon is doing his utmost, and so am I. I therefore find it a little difficult for government parties to address the Minister on these matters, which were collectively decided at a time when the Minister has his hands on his back; however friendly they do, but always in the same tone. Just yesterday, Mrs Van Cauter, I answered your questions in committee and I always do so as calmly as I can. With regard to the new penal code, I would like to say that persons with a sentence of less than three years will be subject to the criminal court. That will be discussed in the Chamber shortly. I can also tell you that from now on they will be accompanied by the police, the prosecutor's office and the courthouses. However, this new penal code cannot enter into force until we have new prisons built. It is very easy to tell here that there is not enough room in prisons and at the same time to say that people are not being locked up enough. One rule out the other pretty well, as far as I can judge it. I am sorry to raise the tone for a moment, because the circumstances are not really that bad. As far as the terrorist you are talking about, Mrs Van Cauter, is concerned, this does not fall under the short-term regime. He'd been given two years and one year's probation. He served 14 months of those two years, six months more than the minimum of eight months. After advice from the prison director and the psychosocial service, my administration immediately subject him to strict conditions. This involved a deradicalisation course at Arktos, under the supervision of the Flemish Community, and a strict follow-up and supervision by the justice house. He was immediately rehired when he did not meet his conditions. This seems to me to be a fairly correct execution of the sentence. Colleagues, with all due respect, we are doing our utmost on prisons. The circulars are collectively approved. I'm open to the question of reviewing them. In doing so, I would ask you to take into account a population of 11 000 prisoners and the fact that the Committee against Torture will again sue us. To the question about the new penal code, I answer: yes, and the best and most strict that is conceivable, so far. But to new prisons that offer sufficient capacity, I also answer yes. If the Communities and the Regions could help us, I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can tell you're angry. However, I have asked you a question in a serene manner, from a concern that you undoubtedly share. As far as the letter is concerned, we do indeed have a collective responsibility. However, you know as well as I do that it states that these are temporary measures. That is why I asked you to evaluate and, if necessary, revise these temporary measures. That too can happen collectively, there is nothing wrong with that. Minister, if there is little left of an original sentence, something is not right. I'm sure you feel the same way. Yes, there must also be perspective for prisoners, but a punishment may be a punishment; there is nothing wrong with that principle. I say this not only with the N-VA, but also in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u47	Then give me prisons, Mrs. De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u48	I come to that point, Minister. If the overpopulation is the major problem, then it can also be different from just emptying out prisons. Perhaps we should indeed work, as you say, to increase the capacity of prisons. I am thinking of Tilburg. I may be mistaken, but I do not believe that there is any mention in the coalition agreement that the prison in Tilburg should be closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u49	Then you haven't read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u50	Minister, I believe that the security of our society must be our priority. To this end, we must dare to accept collective responsibility, not only in the 2014 government agreement, but also today when certain facts arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u51	Minister, I understand that in the context of an ongoing investigation, you must give an answer 'with your hands behind your back', as you said. Honestly, I'd rather see more criminals with hands behind my back in this country. The main thrust of this government's justice policy is to cut back both by limiting judgments and judgments and by limiting the penitentiary population. However, good and correct punishment must also deter criminals. This can only be done if every sentence, however short, is carried out effectively. That's what you need to take care of. The Netherlands sets an example in this respect. That principle has been applied with a lick-on policy, with the result that crime has fallen sharply. Mr President, I would like to conclude by quoting the fact that a budgetary policy is being pursued in the area of justice rather than a security policy. That saving is a priority for security, as the first President of the Court of Cassatie said at RTBF exactly two years ago. He expressed himself as follows: "What respect deserves a state that nibbles on its most archaic function, namely to speak justice? That state is no longer a rule of law but a rogue state."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u52	Minister, what we agreed on is not to control the overpopulation by releasing punished criminals. I know what happened is extremely confronting. That's what makes people angry. I understand you're angry, too. However, we are elected Members of Parliament. It is not for us to remain silent. It is up to us today to ask you to modify the circular letters that come in anticipation of a new penal code. That is our role, even though it is not easy and not always sympathetic. However, it is our duty. I therefore hope, Minister, that you will take our question into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u53	Minister, you've been talking about the establishment of a point pension for months. The aim is not to go back in detail on the subject, you know that I do not share your enthusiasm. People will no longer receive euros but points and the value of the point will vary according to wage-independent parameters, including life expectancy or state debt. It would therefore suffice for a new financial crisis to erupt and we can play on the value of the point. The question that everyone is asking is what you still intend to do because you have communicated in different ways in the press. On October 28, 2017, you said, "I'll introduce a point pension bill before the end of the year." A few weeks later, on the day of the demonstration, which brought together tens of thousands of people, especially about pensions, on December 19, 2017, you said: "I will introduce a text in the spring." On January 15, 2018, you said, "I'm going to introduce a text in June." On April 28, 2018, you said: "It is not absolutely necessary to vote the texts before the end of the legislature, there is first a pedagogical effort to make." Colleagues, when a right-wing minister realizes that the public does not support his actions at all, he says that an educational effort must be made, because people do not understand. Minister, I can tell you that people understand very well what you are talking about. That is why they do not agree! We have just learned that for the event, which will bring together many people on 16 May, the trade union organisations representing teachers on both sides of the country – this is a historic fact, which you have succeeded in provoking! – introduced a strike notice. Minister, yes or no, do you still intend to introduce this fundamental reform of the point pension before the end of the legislature? Do you intend to apply the proposal put forward in the media by Mr. Van Quickenborne that we could have a framework agreement by the end of June? Will you decide to postpone this measure to the next legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u54	Mr Hedebouw, I note that you are totally opposed to the point pension, while at the same time accusing me of not having it voted yet. It's pretty special. I would remind you that the government agreement provides for defining the framework for the point pension with a view to its entry into force in 2030. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have worked extensively on this reform, which is under way. Indeed, the Academic Council, the Federal Pension Service and INASTI have drawn up a joint note on the implementation of the point system. Moreover, the administration considers that it is in a position to anticipate the coming into force of the law by 2025. About a year ago, in June 2017, I presented a guidance note that opened the debate on point pension, which took place with the social partners at the National Pension Committee. A final report of these discussions, which lasted several months, was prepared last January. The Federal Planning Office has also worked extensively on this issue. For example, he released a report in September 2017, pointing out that the scenario would be particularly beneficial for women, the low-skilled and the social beneficiaries. This report also confirms that of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040, which stresses the socially interesting nature of this reform, in particular because the pension would be more linked to the career achieved and to the evolution of wages. As you rightly point out, this debate is obviously important. It was also launched by the French Government, which also implemented this reform. This will, moreover, probably become the norm in Europe. This provision will require several more months of work, in particular in order to continue the social dialogue. Having said that, I know that election deadlines are approaching. These perspectives could no doubt warm up some minds in the opposition, who sometimes do not hesitate to tell anything about it. However, the debate on the reform of our pension system seems to me to deserve better. The entry into force of the point pension will take place, at the earliest, in 2025. I do not intend to be locked in a timetable, because this reform requires, in my view, serenity. It's not a race against the clock or a sprint; it's a background race. In my view, this particularly important measure, coupled with the generalisation of supplementary pensions, will achieve the ambitious target of a replacement rate of 80%. That is really the objective we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u55	Minister, you don't know how uncomfortable you are with all these delays. The factor you have to fight against is public opinion that does not accept your reasoning. I asked you this question, whether many people are asking themselves, whether or not you still want to have texts voted in this Parliament. On three or four occasions, you announced that you would submit texts. Today, I ask you if you still intend to do so, but it seems that you are back again, which gives a lot of hope. Indeed, you realize that many workers look at you and realize that you are hesitant. They think you're afraid to impose these antisocial measures because you feel they don't agree. That's why, Minister, you're postponing all the time. With your pension file, you're the government's Achilles heel, Minister. It would be one of the biggest reforms, but it is felt that the government is doubting. That is why there will be a lot of people on 16 May. Teachers want to go for it on 16 May, because they all feel good that they will lose a lot with your pension reform. That is why we would like to hear from you that you are no longer continuing in the current legislature. I can feel you sitting at two centimeters to do that. On May 16th we add two centimeters!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, whether we are for or against nuclear power, we will have to deal with these thousands of cubic metres of very dangerous radioactive waste. You received a proposal from ONDRAF dated 15 February. This proposal has now been on the table for more than two and a half months. Today, I wish you could answer two questions. First, are you going to conduct a public consultation on this issue? Second, are you going to conduct an environmental impact assessment? As you know, I was able to get the legal study you asked for. I know what the ONDRAF offered you, but I was able to read the conclusions of your own legal study. The conclusion is clear: no request has been made for public consultation in the SEA Opinion Committee, and therefore there is no legal reason not to conduct such a public consultation. Beyond the legal elements, I think there are also political elements. As you know, this is an extremely important issue, and we have already discussed it at length in committee, with huge budgetary dimensions: several billions of euros are at stake. Some mention the figure of ten billion, but it is at least four or five billion at the cost of building and managing waste B and C. There are obviously environmental dimensions. The risk is real – see what happened in the United States. There is also the ethical question: can we really decide through a government order on a project that will commit us for a million years? A million years! It's quite unimaginable! Madam Minister, I expect a clear answer from you. Greenpeace is right: public consultation and environmental impact assessment are needed. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u57	Mr President, thank you for your question. You have put it in committee and, as you have said, we have already had a number of occasions to discuss high-level and long-term waste, known as waste B and C. I am not going to go back to that, especially as we received in March, as I told you at a committee meeting, a very extensive study of the 170-page ONDRAF, which we analysed. I can therefore announce today that my office and that of Minister Kris Peeters – we are co-competent in this matter – will send a letter to ONDRAF. I will try to sum it up in three points. We first call on ONDRAF to improve certain aspects of this document. For example, this document is listed in places as confidential. It seems essential to us that it be open so that we can deal with it in full transparency. Secondly, we ask that the document be summarized in order to arrive at a proposal for a draft royal decree. This is in line with the relevant legislation, both at national and European level. As soon as we receive this project, Kris Peeters and I will formally seek the advice of AFCN. That is what the procedure provides for. With respect to impact assessment and public consultation, your question refers to a study. I am aware of and fully agree with the conclusions of this study. Moreover, as I have already said, I am in favour of anything that can promote a broad societal base that can gradually lead to the establishment of a national policy B and C. In this case, we wanted to proceed in stages, precisely for this reason. But I cannot substitute for the institutions provided for in the law to make these decisions. This is the responsibility of ONDRAF. You will consult the relevant legislation. We will still have the opportunity to come back to committee on 23 May. This does not mean that we are remaining behind, since I am telling you that I am in favour of this strong societal base. Finally, in our letter, we provide ONDRAF with some answers as part of its request to be assigned a series of missions and actions. I will have an opportunity to discuss this with you in committee in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u58	Minister, it's a big day! We can officially say that, for once, we agree that a project of such importance requires public consultation and an impact assessment. You say in the gallery that you agree with my point of view. You have the same analysis as me. All right. But at the same time, you say that it is not up to you to decide, but to the ONDRAF. That's not right. You know that ONDRAF does not want public consultation or impact assessment. The legal author of the act of a royal decree is the government. It's you! In fact, when we ask the SEA opinion committee, what I did, he tells us that in the end, it is the government's decision. Minister, don't change anything on the substance. Just take your responsibilities. It is up to you to make this decision and to say that a project of such importance, from the financial, environmental and societal point of view, must be preceded by a public consultation and an impact assessment, no matter what the ONDRAF thinks!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u59	Madam Minister, the Prime Minister is today in favour of a Europe of different speeds in the European Parliament. He wants a select team of Europhiles to launch the turbo for Europe. The question is, of course, what gear will Belgium switch to? Are we going to use a Eurofelt acceleration or are we going to use a eurorealistic acceleration? Madam Minister, EUR 5.5 billion or, as is said today, EUR 11 million cappuccinos a day - perhaps that sounds a little better - every year Belgium contributes to the European Union. The EU's plans could add another 800 million. In the maximum scenario, that could even amount to 2.8 billion, a fine amount. The Brexit invoice will also end up with the Flemings. Ninety percent of exports to the United Kingdom are Flemish. One job in 40 in Flanders is related to that export to the United Kingdom. So Flanders has actually been bullied twice: on the one hand, there are fewer revenues, on the other hand, one has to pay more. This is on top of the tax indigestion that Flanders is already experiencing today. There are still 27 Member States. Seventeen Member States receive more than they pay. Of the 10 Member States that pay more than they get, seven have already expressed their views on the new plans. The question now is, of course, what Belgium will do. Will Belgium pay more? What is your position? Madam Minister, that question is very important, because the Flemings pay the bill. They pay the transfers to Brussels, the transfers to Wallonia and the transfers to Europe. So the question is when are you going to come up with a position? Is there going to be a debate in Parliament or should we hear it through the media?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u60	Mrs Wouters, first of all, I count in euros, not cappuccinos, perhaps one of the many differences between us. I would also point out that the contribution to the European Commission comes from the federal entity and not from the regions. I welcome the European Commission's decision to take into account the new challenges that Europe will face in the coming years, such as security, migration, innovation and research. In this way, the European Commission meets the requirements of Belgium. I would also like to highlight the specific importance of the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, which is traditional policy areas in which the European Commission proposes to save, for the federated entities. Belgium is clearly in favour of the proposal to link conditions to European funding. Anyone who joins in the European socio-economic project must commit unconditionally and subscribe to the values. Although the EU budget needs to make the current political priorities stand out and meet the future challenges of the Union, some realism is being addressed. Expenditure may be completed more efficiently. Moreover, the same strictness must be shown for the European budget as for the control by the European Commission of national budgets. The proposal to reduce the rate of collection of customs duties from 20% to 10% will also be discussed intensively. Belgium will indeed be particularly hard hit by the Brexit. The European budget must take account of this new reality. Mr President, as has already been said, we are only at the start of a long negotiation process. Belgium will certainly remain a reliable partner in the European project. The financial framework is too important not to negotiate sharply both the content and the budgetary aspects of the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u61	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I would also rather count in euros than in cappuccinos, then everything becomes a little clearer. You're arguing it's a federal donation. I would like to point out, however, that this federal donation and that money come from the Flemings too, through taxes, which pay mainly the Flemings. Yes, let us be realistic, but of course you did not answer my question whether or not you will give Europe more money. The government makes use of different domains, but specifically in two domains. First of all, it is coinciding in the avoidance of questions. You answer alongside the issue and you have not yet explicitly answered the question of whether you will pay more or less. Secondly, it makes use of communication. The tweets and communications on facebook do not match the policy. The biggest party tweeted: "Europe is after your money." I agree with her very much, but I do not immediately see any of that in the policy. I do fear that a lot of Flemish money will go to the EU and that more will go to it. Madam Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Flanders is absolutely not the Mister Cash of Europe. The Prime Minister wants to give Europe a new impetus. He is absolutely right, but if that means that Flanders will have to contribute more and that the EU will impose its own tax, then we cannot follow, because that is not a new impetus, Madam Minister, but a new transfer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u62	Mr President, Minister, did the driving licence with points received a first-class funeral yesterday or not? That was not so clear yesterday and not so clear today either. Yesterday a study on driving licences was presented in committee with points from which we can get some interesting things. Firstly, the number of deaths per million inhabitants in Belgium is higher than the European average. Secondly, in some 20 countries in Europe there is a driving licence with points in one form or another. Thirdly, the introduction of such a driving licence with points has led elsewhere to an immediate reduction of 15% in the number of accidents. It is true that after that one must also increase the chance of taking action and invest in enforcement. The chance of getting caught is too low in Belgium, as it turns out. That's an old very. The coalition agreement sets out the clear objective that one in three drivers per year should be checked for alcohol, drugs and seat belts. A third, that's 33 %. Today one has a chance of getting 17 % to 18 %. So one has to double. There is a great deal of delay in this area. Especially bizarre, Minister, when we took note of the study, you already communicated that the licence with points would not be introduced. This is a consternation of the committee, also of the majority parties. Yesterday, CD&V was very clear on the introduction of the driving licence with points and found your ruling premature. N-VA was very clear yesterday about its introduction and says that you do not want to take courageous decisions to reduce the number of victims. Just now Vice Prime Minister De Croo of Open Vld at Villa Politica said that there has been no discussion in the government and that he had to hear your views in the press. It is clear that there has been no discussion in the government and that you have spoken in turn. You are, of course, also holding the majority parties hostage. An important argument you raised was that the chances of getting caught are too low, but what has prevented you from working on increasing the chances of getting caught in recent years? Mr Minister, is the decision you made yesterday a personal opinion or is it a position on which the government was consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u63	Minister, 1990, 28 years ago: the cell phone had just been invented, we still played music on cassettes and we watched movies with a video recorder. That is how long it has been since the licence was registered with points in Belgian law. I repeat: registered in Belgian law. This was done in the footsteps of other European countries, because it was an important step in road safety, a means of raising people's awareness, a stick behind the door for drivers who relapse into their bad habits. Meanwhile, 22 out of 28 EU countries have a driving licence with points. Meanwhile, the databases in our country are ready to finally implement the law. So there's no excuse anymore. There are still 620 road deaths a year in our country. So there's no excuse anymore. With a proven decrease of 20% in the number of road deaths after the introduction of the driving licence with points, there is no excuse for not introducing this. It is incomprehensible, Minister, that you would now decide not to introduce it. Of course the driving licence with points is not the only solution, of course additional checks are needed, of course additional awareness is needed, but that is no reason not to introduce the driving licence with points, because it is an en-en-story. Mr Minister, my questions are very simple. Is burying the driving licence with points your own decision or is it a decision of the entire government? Is the reduction in the number of road deaths in Belgium still a priority for the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement is very clear: the government is working on a systematic approach to recidivism. In this context, it is necessary to examine which instrument can best be used. The point driving licence, like other instruments, is mentioned in the text of the agreement. So I asked for a study of VIAS and the FPS Mobility. Their experts have done their work independently. As a competent minister, I gave my opinion on the basis of the study. I note that many others gave their opinion immediately, without having read the study. The study shows, among other things, that the Belgian approach, focusing on tackling recidivists and heavy traffic offenders, does not miss its impact. In fact, the objective, the fight against repeated crime, is set out in the coalition agreement. At the end of February, on a proposal from the government, the Chamber adopted the Road Safety Improvement Act. The stricter penalties for infringements such as driving without a driving licence, hit-and-run, etc. have already entered into force. The new rules on the alcohol lock will also enter into force from 1 July. The study of VIAS and the FPS Mobility confirms that this is the right path to follow. Together with my colleagues from Justice and Home Affairs in the federal government, I will implement and evaluate the new rules. Traffic sinks were already in our sights and will be dealt with even harder in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u65	Minister, I have not asked any questions about the initiatives you have taken in recent months. My questions were about the driving licence with points, and especially whether what you said is a government position or whether it is your personal position. I note that you are not giving a clear answer. Is it a decision of the government, Minister? Clearly, no decision has yet been taken by the government. You spoke in turn. I am therefore curious about the reactions of the majority parties. Is CD&V still for today? Will the N-VA, who said yesterday that the Minister simply doesn't have the courage to make important decisions, still force us to go ahead with the driving licence with points? I also look forward to the opinion of Open Vld. All studies also show a decrease in the number of accidents. This also means the reduction in the number of deaths and serious injuries and the decrease in the number of minor injuries. That must be the objective. The study also states that the costs are quite high. The costs of additional checks are also included. They put it on the driver's license with points, which is intellectually unfair. If the price is also an argument, then I wonder what a human life is worth to this government. I conclude with a conclusion from the whole vaudeville of yesterday and today and the communication of all parties. For Green and Ecolo it is clear that road safety is clearly not a priority for this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u66	Mr Minister, I have the same question: do you interpret the government's position on this issue or not? I believe I understand that you have expressed your personal opinion. That's your full right. I hope CD&V doesn't follow you there. I hope N-VA doesn't follow you there. I hope Open Vld doesn't follow you in that. We support you in all the measures you have taken recently to increase road safety. We also want to support you in the driving licence with points. We are still at the top and above the European average when it comes to the number of road deaths. The study showed that with the introduction of this system we can have 20 % less road deaths than the 620 that are still there today. That can save 124 lives, it means 124 fewer road deaths. Do you really mean the government is gonna miss that opportunity? Why don't we take that chance? How many more road deaths are to fall? Minister, I am counting on you, the whole of Belgium is counting on you to reduce those road deaths. I'm asking for a little support. I'm asking for political courage. You can always reconsider what you said yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u67	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, three Moroccan terrorists sentenced in Belgium, who were now serving their sentence here, lost their residence permit when they were released and were transferred to a closed centre pending their repatriation. When they were released from prison, the Foreign Affairs Department immediately withdrew their residence permit in my view a clear decision because the DVZ assumes that the convicted persons, even if they have served their sentence, could in any case constitute a danger to our national security. However, that judgment of the Foreign Affairs Office was counted outside the Council for Foreigner's Disputes (RvV). This council suspended the expulsion because there were insufficient guarantees that these persons would not be tortured in their home country Morocco. The Council for Aliens' Contests is based on a Swedish judgment and reports from NGOs. However, there are other legal proceedings, recently in France, which do justify the withdrawal of a residence permit and the subsequent expulsion. Mr Secretary of State, you were as disgusted as our group about those three decisions of the Council of Foreign Ministers. You decided to make sure of the situation yourself. You decided to discuss the situation with your colleague in Morocco. I do not think this is an obvious subject to talk about. It therefore demonstrated a certain political courage. The suspicion of torture to a Moroccan colleague is not as obvious in itself. I can imagine that your Moroccan colleague also considered this a very sensitive subject. However, time was running out, because within this and three years, nine more of these people may be released. You were right to discuss this. Our Minister of the Interior and Security, your colleague Jan Jambon, travelled after you to support this mission. I have two specific questions for you, Mr Secretary of State. What are the results of this conversation? What are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, thank you for your question. With our departure to Morocco, we have actually concluded our Presidency of the Rabat Process. The Rabat process is a process of cooperation between African and European countries on migration. Belgium has held that presidency for a year, Minister Reynders has managed this well, and it is now up to Burkina Faso. It is about cooperation, the fight against illegal migration and return. I have also intervened in these areas; that is actually the essence. In addition, we held a number of bilateral meetings with Ghana, Gambia, Côte d'Ivoire and Niger, among others, some important countries which do not always cooperate equally well on return. The most important thing was the bilateral meeting with the Moroccan Minister for the Interior, who has been appointed for a year. We hadn't met him yet. My colleague Jan Jambon had already invited him several times, but it had not come to pass. With the previous Moroccan Minister for the Interior, we maintained a very intense relationship in which we put a lot of energy into it. We travelled more often to Morocco and Moroccan excellences also came several times in our country. In the first meeting with the current Moroccan Minister of the Interior, the ice had to break. It was important, though, that we could build some trust. We had a good, constructive conversation. The problem is, of course, very difficult. What are we gonna do with that? The Moroccan government does not want to take back terrorists; we do not need to do anything about that. In addition, it is diplomatically difficult to ask for individual guarantees regarding non-fouling. Such a question is considered offensive. Suppose a country asks Belgium to extradite, but only on condition that the person concerned is not tortured in Belgium, then I assume that also Minister None will ask out loud what is being told about Belgium. Our Moroccan colleagues have the same reaction. Of course, Morocco is not Belgium. In that sense, we had a good talk. A working party will be set up and we will continue to talk. The Moroccan government also had some questions. On 22 April 2016, exactly one month after the attacks of 22 March, we had concluded an agreement on security. In that context, there really is the goodwill to work together. In the next few weeks, we'll be sitting with the ambassador. Minister Jambon has also invited his homologist to visit Brussels in the coming weeks, although it may not be until after the Ramadan in June. However, we will certainly take that further. So we are not yet at the desired point, but I am absolutely aware of the seriousness of this story. It's about national security. Morocco is aware of that, and that is good news. However, from a legal point of view, we must have sufficient arguments to convince the judges there and the Supervisory Board to do so. We'll do the same. I'm very determined. I would also like to thank Mr Jambon for the trip he took yesterday to Morocco for a meeting of about 45 minutes. That was necessary. I hope we land. I'm sure it'll work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u69	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for playing the ball so briefly. If we leave everything to be done in these three files, but also in the nine files of the convicted terrorists who are still to be released, then we cannot tell them, we cannot withdraw their right of residence and they may disappear into illegality. You have an active policy. I understand that a working group will be set up in which case-by-case, released convicted terrorist per released convicted terrorist will be discussed, so that we can be assured that we can tell him that we can withdraw his residence permit. I am a lawyer myself, and I understand that it is very important that the separation of powers should be envisaged, that the case law of the RV should be carried out, but it would be good if the Council of Foreigners' Contests could understand that the results of the working group's discussions could steer the RV's case law in a different direction, broaden its insights. I am a lawyer myself, but I think that political common sense should prevail here. People who pose a potential danger to our society do not belong here, and we must be able to withdraw their right of residence and deport them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u71	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed. Mrs Gerkens has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u72	Mr President, last week I regretted that I had not received an explanation from the minister on the concrete provisions of the order because she told us in committee that we would know more in the coming weeks. A month had already passed since the work in committee. In that regard, I wanted to take the floor today, just to thank her. The minister came to the committee yesterday to present us with the text of the decree which sets out the conditions that NGOs must meet in order to benefit from environmental subsidies. It seemed to me right to stress this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u73	The replies requested were obtained. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u74	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2972/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2972/3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Monica De Coninck, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u77	Mr President, I apologise for not being entered in the list of speakers in advance. I will keep my speech brief and focus on the utmost importance of this bill. Mr Secretary of State, this draft law deals with the cooperation agreement concluded with a view to transposing a European directive. That cooperation agreement deals with the principles of permis unique. Although the directive should have been transposed a long time ago, we have now reached an agreement to introduce the single permit or permis unique. There is still no short and powerful Dutch term for it. This system is important in our aim to make active migration the most important form of migration. We cannot emphasise enough how important active migration is, not only for the newcomer himself but also for those who are already here. It is extremely important for the integration of the newcomer, for his well-being and for actively contributing to society in general. I believe that the N-VA Group is not the only one who wishes to emphasise its importance. As I said earlier, this European directive should have been transposed for some time, at the latest on 25 December 2013. However, the Directive was only partially transposed so that the European Commission has opened infringement proceedings. However, this procedure has not yet been fully implemented. We are faced with a penalty payment, but if we adopt this bill later, I assume that the penalty payment will expire. There is therefore a danger of a penalty payment if we do not implement the directive quickly. We live in a complex country. The cooperation agreement is not something frivolous; it is a very difficult procedure. The necessary agreements of all the Länder must be reached. So, Mr Secretary of State, I can understand that it has taken a little longer. However, we should be pleased to be able to vote here today on the present draft and on the transposition. I will also confine myself to focusing on Article 4, which deals with a third-country national who is in possession of long-term resident status in another Member State and who must apply for the single permit or permis unique if he wishes to pursue an activity as an employed person in Belgium and come to work here. The Council of State focused on that Article 4, but you replied that there is no problem and that the intended newcomer or migrant is treated in all respects at least as favourably as before. There is therefore no problem here either. The way is open to discussions and cooperation agreements in order to facilitate this very good form of active migration. Mr Secretary of State, we have long argued, since we were in opposition together, that active migration, work migration and labour migration should be fully facilitated. We are about to give the impetus to this, which I and my group can only welcome. The draft law was adopted unanimously in committee. Members thus share our opinion and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u78	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally support this draft. Indeed, it was not easy negotiations that started a few years ago. However, I should like to warn against the following. Mr Smeyers, I can hear you defending very strong migration, you are talking about active migration. I have stressed a number of times in committee that good agreements should be made with the Regions in order to control, above all, the active in this form of migration. One has to be careful not to use the single permit to enter the country and get residence papers, to work here for a very short time and to stay here afterwards. I would like final agreements to be reached on this with colleagues from a different level of policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your support. You have been a loyal ally in this Chamber for many years in the field of migration. I really appreciate that. Mrs De Coninck, I certainly understand your concern about fraud. You are consistent when it comes to fraud, whether it is about social fraud, tax fraud or migration fraud. In this respect, the Flemish Social Democrats are very consistent and I appreciate that. You certainly have a point. In any case, it should not be the intention to open up a fraud channel for non-Europeans with easier access to the labour market through this new permis-unique scheme. In this sense, I am certainly prepared, together with colleagues at regional level, to put in place good monitoring so that abuses or possible fraud are always monitored with two words, and that we keep a close eye on this. On the one hand, with the Social Inspectorate, we will see to it that the working conditions are good. On the other hand, there is, of course, also the story of residence, about which a number of people have to do. That must certainly be kept in mind. I'll take that, Mrs. De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u80	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u81	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3014/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3014/3) The draft law contains 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u82	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u83	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u84	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (49/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (49/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a resolution calling for the removal of obstacles to organ donations by living donors, by ensuring the reimbursement of all medical costs borne by the donor." The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a resolution to remove the obstacles to the donation of organs of living persons by introducing the treatment of all medical expenses borne by the donor". The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Dedry and Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u85	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on a personal basis, I am very committed to organ transplantation. I know that is the case with other colleagues, too. It is really a gift of life. It is often forgotten that the donation of organs during the donor's lifetime also exists. At that time, it was an act of incredible generosity and great solidarity. The least one can expect, given the value of organ donation in the donor's lifetime, is obviously full support from the state. That is the original meaning of my motion for a resolution. Indeed, in Belgium, we are rather in default compared to the progress made in other European countries. They recognize a principle of full and complete gratuity for donors of organs, or parts of organs, during their lifetime. I had proposed a number of measures aimed at completely covering medical costs, not only at the time of organ removal from the donor, but also upstream, for the examinations he must undergo, and also downstream, for the follow-up of the patient after the donation. I also proposed that, as is the case for civil servants, compensation be introduced for the loss of the donor's income. These persons, whether employed or self-employed, are necessarily excluded from their work for a number of days following their hospitalization. I also proposed to lock things up more importantly, to avoid negative consequences, whether they are insurance or job losses arising from organ donation. During the hearings, the various speakers all expressed their support for the removal of all these obstacles to the donation of organs during the life of the donor, namely medical expenses, discrimination in insurance and employment. This is important since many patients today are still waiting for a transplant and organ removal after someone's death is not sufficient compared to waiting list patients. It is true that the majority did not want to go that far. I'm sorry. This is a first step which, in my view, is insufficient. This first step, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I would remind you that you must make it a reality since it is a question of the full treatment of medical expenses. Indeed, on 21 November 2016 the minister undertook to publish the royal decree enshrining this principle of free medical expenses. A year and a half later, this royal decree has still not been taken. I hope he will be in the coming days. I also hope that this resolution will, in the near future, enable us to make further positive progress for those who give an organ in their lifetime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is doing well in terms of organ donation. That is what we can derive from the figures. The reality is that 1 292 Belgians are still on the waiting list for an organ and that people are still dying because of the lack of a suitable organ. The Committee on Health has devoted many meetings to initiatives to increase the number of organ donations after death and by life. A few weeks ago, we took a legislative initiative to facilitate the registration as a donor or the registration of the refusal of donation. For living donation, the Minister has already taken one step. The medical costs for the screening of the prospective donors, the donation of the organ and the studies related to the donation, for nine years from the end of the one-year period after decrease, will be fully borne by the government. Due to the delay in the publication of the Royal Decree, the retroactive effect will take effect on 1 July 2017. In the motion for a resolution, which is before us today and which we have amended, we have set a clear priority. We ask the Minister to go one step further and also to identify all the costs associated with the screening of the prospective donors who will not become donors and to fully cover their costs as soon as possible. In this way, we will make a huge step forward in this legislative period in terms of burdening the health costs of living donation. In her initial motion for a resolution, Mrs Fonck also asked for steps to be taken to compensate donors for their loss of income as a result of their donation. We will not deny that this is also important. Only, in difficult budgetary times, we must set priorities for the steps that are being taken. For us, these priorities now lie in the full burden on healthcare costs. There is no doubt that the problem of loss of income will still have to be addressed in policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u89	Request/Demande 2(n) ● 4 - Catherine Fonck (49/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u90	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u91	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Leen Dierick, Roel Deseyn, Vincent Van Peteghem, Stefaan Vercamer, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Johan Klaps, Bert Wollants, Werner Janssen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u93	Mr President, the bill tabled by Mrs Dierick and a number of colleagues on the Business Committee proposes that the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) be taken as the basis for the legal time in Belgium and not based on the reference time determined by the rotation of the earth and this to remove legal uncertainties. The legislative proposal was adopted unanimously after amendment of Articles 2, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u94	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u95	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2280/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2280/6) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u96	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u97	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Johan Klaps, Leen Dierick, Rita Gantois, Werner Janssen, Nele Lijnen, Griet Smaers, Bert Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u98	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2965/4) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2965/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u99	Mr President, I will take the floor again very briefly. This is a proposal for a resolution containing recommendations on the payment behaviour of the federal government. Apparently, the deadlines are not really respected by, on the one hand, the loopholes in the legislation and, on the other hand, the lack of information. That is why a number of colleagues have tabled a motion for a resolution to speed up payments and to invite officials to the committee if necessary to answer for long delays in payments. This motion for a resolution was also adopted unanimously in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u100	Thank you, Mrs Detiège, for the excellent summary. The debate in committee was rather short and the consensus was very large. With the motion for a resolution, we are taking an important step. A smooth payment system has a direct impact on the investment policies of our companies, especially SMEs. However, it is striking that 20% of our companies indicate that they will recruit staff more quickly if invoices are paid more quickly and on time. That is what we must all strive for. The current arrangement is not perfect. I have tabled a legislative proposal to regulate this between companies, but we have not yet come to the discussion of this. It is a good thing that we call the government to order first. The government is taking steps to pay the invoices more quickly, but we're still a long way from where we need to be. The government in Belgium pays its invoices on average after 73 days. In the Netherlands that is 44 days, in Germany 36. So we still have a long way to go to get better figures. Different ways can be devised to address the problem. Our idea is to increase the political pressure on the responsible politicians by obliging them to present their figures annually in Parliament. I think that's the best way to keep the pressure up. Each department must decide for itself how it achieves its objectives, because that is not for Parliament. We would like to see the results. At the annual presentation of the figures, we will be able to critically question and check each department if the situation does not improve. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for supporting the common objective. What the government demands of businesses and citizens, it must first of all do so itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, compliance with payment deadlines is a component of good governance. While it strengthens the confidence of citizens and businesses in the public authorities, it allows our SMEs to have a healthy cash flow. It is extremely damaging for companies, as a result of late payments, to find it difficult to pay suppliers and also to fulfil their tax obligations. Subsidiarily, this can also influence their investment capacity and job creation. The Government is sensitive to this problem and has already taken a number of concrete and sustainable measures to reduce late payments. I mention in particular investments in new IT modules, in the context of the implementation of electronic invoicing, and the development of a platform for the integrated management of public procurement. As each department is responsible for accounting and the organisation of its services, it is essential to make the administrations aware of the recommendations made through existing technical tools and features. The preparation of an annual report provided for in that resolution, which would give rise to an annual debate in committee, would thus enable us to analyse the efforts made and encourage each department to adopt the best payment behaviour. That is why the MR will speak in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u102	Mr President, as other colleagues have said, this is a very important subject. The concern is deep and we have all shared it in committee. On the part of the Ecolo-Groen Group, we have been intervening for years with regard to delays in the payment of the federal state, of an intractable magnitude. Some additional figures compared to the text: The Belgian State is in the top 5 of the European countries that pay the most late. Belgium is at the bottom of the pack, together with Greece, Spain and Portugal... According to Graydon, in the third quarter of 2017, the federal administration would have honoured only 61% of invoices over time; 11% of invoices are honoured 90 days late. According to another barometer, Intrum Justitia, the public authorities are by far the worst payers with an average delay of 69 days; between companies, this delay is around 44 days. The total of these cumulative delays was estimated last year to be more than EUR 9.6 billion for the Belgian economy. As others have already said, the first entities affected by these delays are small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), very small enterprises (FTEs) and self-employed persons who, as a result of such late payments, may suffer from liquidity problems which can lead to serious consequences, up to the deposit of the balance sheet, until bankruptcy. Moreover, according to the UCM's latest investigation, unpaid invoices are the third cause of financial problems for the self-employed and small businesses in our country. More than cash flow problems, these delays can cause a significant number of bankruptcies. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this is a problem which we are particularly concerned about and which we are taking with us. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is very good to table a motion for a resolution calling for an improvement in the situation. However, would it not be more effective to question the ministers of your political parties who are in charge of these departments? I'm thinking of Finance, Budget. It is at this level that the levers of action are found. We shall vote on a motion for a resolution. In order to make things clear, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that we are going to vote in favour of this resolution. But the levers of action are in the hands of your ministers within the government. Your responsibility and that of this government are very clear. Sometimes a scheme is worth more than great explanations. (Mr. Vanden Burre shows a graph) Look at the evolution of the percentage of unpaid invoices more than 30 days after the validation deadline, since 2010. The red dashes you see correspond to the beginning of the entry into office of the Michel 1st government. It can be seen that the situation has not improved at all. We can even talk about deterioration. In any case, this had no effect on the development of the situation. It's extremely challenging. Since 2010, we have been in the same situation which is quite challenging and catastrophic. Mr Klaps, you who are among the first signatories of this resolution that we are going to support, take the phone from Minister Van Overtveldt, take the phone from your colleagues in the Committee on Budgets and do something! These figures come from Graydon, so the same sources you have in your motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u103	Mr Vanden Burre, on the one hand, you think it is a good resolution that you will support and, on the other hand, you ask why the ministers are not being interviewed. We can do that... [[Tumult]] I think colleagues across the street are asking to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u104	No, you have the floor, Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u105	We could do that and we will do that, but with the resolution before us we are doing much more. After all, we are not going to ask a minister once in a while how his department is doing for the sake of clarity: Minister Van Overtveldt is responsible for income, not expenditure. That's a mistake you make all the time. We do not ask one minister how his department is doing. With this resolution, we ask all ministers, the whole government, to submit their figures annually. That's important. If the figures deteriorate, we want to hear an explanation. I also told you in committee that, if that explanation is not enough, we are the first to ask critical questions about it. It has been different in the past in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u106	What have you been doing since 2014? That's my question. Secondly, what you are proposing in the resolution – which, I repeat, we will support – is in fact the work of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is doing this work. In fact, it looks at the problem every year. It conducts audits of each department, of each FPS and provides analysis and recommendations. The last date was October 2017. The Court of Auditors examined the measures of four federal departments: the police, the SPF Employment, the SPF Economy and the SPP Science Policy. It analysed what had been done to meet the deadlines for the payment of supplies and services. It also assessed the percentages of late payment invoices. The Court notes that there are numerous shortcomings in the application of the rules on payment periods, in the calculation of the time limit and in the granting of interest on late payment. This situation is due, inter alia, to weaknesses in internal control. Furthermore, the configuration of Fedcom – the application you're talking about – and the insufficient supervision of the departments – the lack of staff available to implement this policy and reduce payment delays – do not facilitate the optimal management of payment delays. I quote the Court of Auditors. Following this analysis, the Court of Auditors has made criticisms and recommendations. It did so in 2017, 2016 and 2015. You see, things are being done, in a very concrete way. She has made a whole series of recommendations, which I have here in front of me. I'll get them back soon. There is a lack of documentation in the liquidation files, which does not allow the precise deadline for payment to be determined. There is a difference between the date of entry of the invoice and the date of registration. Most departments do not draw up minutes when the control of receipt of goods or services has been finalized. However, it is recommended in a royal decree. Finally, most departments only pay interest on late payments when suppliers explicitly request it, whereas it is a legal obligation. In order to be constructive, and to give even more weight to this motion for a resolution that you are submitting today, we are asking for two things. These are the amendments we have tabled. I hope that all colleagues will be able to support them. We ask to add to the text the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. We call for the measures recommended in the October 2017 report to be added very precisely to give even greater strength to what we are asking for here. We also call, as you do, but in a strengthened way, for the audit of the Court of Auditors to be carried out annually by department on late payment and also to be presented to the parliamentary committee. It is a minimum if we want to improve the current situation which, unfortunately, has not moved since 2014!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u107	Mr President, there is indeed a difference in approach to problems. We've seen that in other files, too. Mr Vanden Burre is simply asking for the recommendations of the Court of Auditors to be taken over. However, these recommendations are already there and I do not see the added value of them. However, there is also a difference of principle. The recommendations of the Court of Auditors are very valuable and every minister must work with them. What interests me, however, is the result of that exercise. What we are asking the government for is an improvement. Whether that result should be achieved with more staff, with more IT or with an internal reorganisation of each service is something that, in my philosophy, should not be imposed by Parliament. Apparently, Mr Vanden Burre thinks we should. What interests me is what results will be presented here next year by the various departments. If that result is not enough, I will ask the ministers concerned critical questions. I believe, however, that each department must set its own organisation on the verge of paying invoices in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u108	Mr President, CD&V also supports this resolution. There were several arguments that argued why this is a good resolution. As far as we are concerned, it is important to emphasise once again the role of the government as a model. It has to show to all private companies that paying in good time is important. In the past, late payment by the public authorities has caused liquidity problems on several occasions, especially in the case of SMEs. If it was really difficult there were also financial problems afterwards. We therefore believe it is important for the government to carry out its exemplary role effectively and therefore to pay in good time. That is why we support this resolution. Mr Vanden Burre, it is correct that the Court of Auditors has reported on this on several occasions. It was not only about payment deadlines and possible late payments by the public authorities, but also about the rise in interest from late payments and their cost to the public authorities. That too is an important element. It is not only a question of timely payment, but also of avoiding interest and thus reducing costs as much as possible. I do not think it is necessary to dwell on this for longer and to insist that the recommendations of the Court of Auditors should be integrated into it. The recommendations are known to us, but there is still more to be done. If we can contribute to this by means of a resolution, we are happy to do so, but I agree that the government, with the members of the government and their departments in particular, should do so anyway. Why, however, should we not contribute if we can? I therefore hope that this resolution can contribute to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u109	Mr President, we support this resolution, but I would like to make a few comments. Ladies and gentlemen, when we table a resolution from the opposition, you often do not sign it, saying that the government is already working on the problems and that the resolution is therefore not necessary. Now I see that you are tabling a resolution yourself, and I suspect that you mean that the government is not working on it. It is therefore a good thing that you would like to point this out to the government. Indeed, it is important that the government pays its invoices on time. The government has an exemplary role, especially when the government imposes heavy fines on those who do not pay their taxes in time. It is a collective responsibility. I would like to thank Mr Vanden Burre for referring to the Court of Auditors. I even want to move on. Last week, the Court of Auditors produced a dossier on policy evaluation in the federal institutions. The general conclusion is that in general far too few audits are carried out and that policies are far too little evaluated in the different departments. The government agreement stipulates that Minister Vandeput, as Minister responsible for the organisation of the federal administrations, must carry out audits towards cooperation and work better. The Court of Auditors makes excellent policy recommendations in this area. Well, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you should consider a next resolution, aimed at achieving results, to the attention of Minister Vandeput, who will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u110	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u111	● 3 - Gilles Vanden Burre cs (2965/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u112	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u113	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u115	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2997/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2997/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u117	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u118	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u119	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3001/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3001/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u120	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u121	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Flahaux, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u122	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3002/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3002/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u123	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u124	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Van Hoof, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u125	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3017/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3017/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u127	According to the decision of the plenary session of 15 March 2018, a call for candidates for the mandate of councillor to the Dutch Chamber of Auditor was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 March 2018. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 15 March 2018, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 26 March 2018 for the mandate of adviser to the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Wilfried Beerten, First Auditor Director at the Court of Auditors; - Ms Margit Francken, internal auditor/project leader at SNCB; - Mr Marc Galle, First Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr Walter Schroons, vessels of Finance and Sport, town of Mechelen; - Mr Frank Smet, First Auditor Director at the Court of Auditors; - Mrs. Nele Verhoeven, business controlling manager at Wolters Kluwer. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Wilfried Beerten, first Managing Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Ms Margit Francken, internal auditor/project manager at SNCB; - Mr Marc Galle, first auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mr. Walter Schroons, Finance and Sports Secretary, city of Malines; - Mr Frank Smet, the first Director Auditor at the Court of Auditors; - Mme Nele Verhoeven, business controlling manager chez Wolters Kluwer. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 May 2018, the curriculum vitae of candidates will be delivered to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Rekenhof sub-committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 May 2018, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be forwarded to the political groups. The Sub-Committee on the Court of Auditors will hold a hearing with the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u128	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 March 2018, a second call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 March 2018 for the mandates of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the Standing Supervisory Committee of the intelligence and security services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 March 2018, a second call for candidates for the terms of first and second French alternate members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services was published in the Moniteur belge on 26 March 2018. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 May 2018, I propose that you publish a third call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the Standing Supervisory Committee of the intelligence and security services. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of May 2, 2018, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a third call for candidates for the term of first and second francophone alternate member of the Standing Committee for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u129	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 May 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Griet Smaers cs) introducing birth leave for selfemployed persons and introducing birth aid for selfemployed persons who do not take birth leave, No. 3067/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u130	- the motion for a resolution (Doc. 3068/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u131	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 May 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms Griet Smaers et al.) introducing birth leave for self-employed persons and providing birth assistance for self-employed persons who do not take birth leave, No. 3067/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u132	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Servais Verherstraeten) on the adaptation of time credit, No. 3068/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u133	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2972/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2972/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Gilkinet, Mr Calvo and Mr Vermeulen voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 131 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3014/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3014/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u136	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert a request 2(n). (49/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert a request 2(n). (49/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 54 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (49/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (49/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2280/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2280/7) Mr Miller voted like his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u139	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert requests 5 to 10(n). (2965/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert requests 5 to 10(n). (2965/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[55]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert a request to the Court of Auditors (n). (2965/5) Vote on amendment No 3 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert an application to the Court of Auditors (n). (2965/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 57 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2965/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2965/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2997/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2997/4) Mr Daerden voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u143	Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3001/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3001/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3002/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3002/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3017/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3017/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-03-54-plenair-ip227x.u146	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Wednesday 9 May 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Wednesday, May 9, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 9 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 9 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
