ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u1	Mr. Van Peteghem has just left the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u2	Mr President, Minister, it is already mid-April, but my question dates from 5 March last. The first sentence of my question was: 'The last week was an eventful week in the Brexit negotiations'. Actually, there's something to say about the Brexit every week. Certain elements of my question have already become obsolete or have already been answered by practice or by your reactions. That is why I will shorten my question. In general, I would ask you to shed light on the current state of Brexit. More specifically, I have the following question. In her speech, Prime Minister May expressed the British wish to be part of a number of EU agencies, including medicines, space and chemicals. It seemed that the British would like to leave, but still want to keep the beautiful pieces for them. How do you stand on this cherry picking? Do you think this is admissible? Not as far as I am concerned, but I would have liked to have heard your opinion on this. What is the current state of affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u3	Minister, on Friday, 2 March, British Prime Minister Theresa May delivered a speech on her vision of an economic partnership between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Following his statement, we have confirmation that the British are looking for a "soft Brexit" which, at first glance, may seem the best option for the European Union and would avoid further disruptions in Northern Ireland. It is also essential that the European Union and the United Kingdom maintain partnerships and collaborations in areas such as space, health and security and defence policy. However, if we do not aim to plunge Britain into the crisis, Britain must understand that it cannot benefit from the advantages of the single market without the inherent obligations. Minister, what is your analysis of Mrs Theresa May's speech and Britain's position on future Brexit negotiations? On what points do you consider that Belgium should be particularly attentive in its bilateral and multilateral relations with Great Britain? I would point out that my question was introduced on 5 March. Almost every week, there are new elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these questions. We have sometimes postponed the questions to the end of the meeting. First of all, I would like to make it clear that it is true that the Prime Minister's speech was really more realistic than some of the speeches previously made by other politicians. I have also been in contact with Michel Barnier to give him the evolution of our opinion on the second phase of the Brexit negotiations. To date, it has been first and foremost a confirmation, as in Mrs May's speech, of the red line in Britain. However, I would also like to say that an approach with three possible baskets is unacceptable to the European Union. We must stick to the same point of view. The additional guidelines adopted by the European Council under Article 50 on 23 March respect the current red line of the United Kingdom and are therefore based on the model of a free trade agreement, which can be complemented by cooperation in other areas of EU interest. The guidelines also leave open the possibility of developing a more extensive form of cooperation with the United Kingdom in case the United Kingdom adjusts its red line. These guidelines form the basis for the negotiation of the political declaration on the future framework for relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. The interests of the EU 27 are not always exactly the same, as Mr Luykx said. There's a difference between the first and second stages. In a first phase, everyone wanted to defend Ireland. In the second phase, however, the different Member States have different interests. At the same time, each Member State is aware that unity is the only way to achieve a satisfactory outcome. Our country advocates a comprehensive trade agreement with trade facilities and broad cooperation in several areas for the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. At the same time, the European regulatory autonomy and role of the Court of Justice of the European Union must be maintained and the unity of the internal market must not be undermined. Any agreement with the United Kingdom should maintain a balance of rights and obligations and preserve a level playing field. Mr Flahaux, at the request of a number of countries, including ours, the guidelines specify that the United Kingdom cannot participate in the decisions of the agencies, bodies and offices of the European Union, including the three mentioned by you. This does not exclude a presence, but nothing has yet been decided on this, in any case not a participation in the decision. Chief negotiator Michel Barnier, in order to fulfil his duties and in the absence of proposals from the United Kingdom, has legally translated into a protocol in the draft withdrawal agreement the first two options for solutions to the Northern Ireland problem, the third option being the fallback option. On the EU side, the message has also been sent several times that this option is only a relapse option that will not apply if the UK comes up with another acceptable solution. The United Kingdom now recognises the need to include a legally workable fallback option in a withdrawal agreement, but still wishes to work on the text. From the Belgian point of view, it is of paramount importance to provide for an adequate mechanism that does not compromise the integrity of the internal market, in accordance with the April 2017 guidelines, the negotiating mandate of May 2017, the December 2017 progress report and the 23 March 2018 guidelines. Relations within the British Government are internal to the British Government. I am not going to comment on that. I want to say something about my last contact with Michel Barnier. We have confirmed that we want to evolve into a real unity of the 27 as in the first phase. We are not yet at the end of the debate on the first stage, especially when it comes to Ireland. With regard to Ireland, there is now an EU proposal. However, no agreement has yet been reached on the part of the United Kingdom. We must be sure that a good solution is found for Ireland, but that must also be a good solution for the European Union. I am thinking, for example, of Northern Ireland's participation in the internal market, but also of that. To date, however, there has been no agreement from London. For the future, we must also think of European Union aid, for example in the budgetary field, for those countries which may be heavily affected by the Brexit. I am thinking in the first instance of the ports and SMEs in our country, which may have very serious consequences. In the discussion with Michel Barnier there is no agreement on this but a clear orientation to use part of the European budget for stabilisation in Europe. Such budgetary intervention is possible with a view to stabilising Europe if there are very serious consequences of the Brexit. I would like to appeal to some of our partners, such as the Benelux countries, France and the Scandinavian countries. Negotiations with the United Kingdom are therefore under way. There are also common interests with a number of partners in the EU. We also advocate, for example, budgetary intervention, if necessary, in order to support a number of economic actors that would have direct consequences. I have received a very positive response from Michel Barnier in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which is in line with the answers we received from the Prime Minister in the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs. Of course, this case will continue to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. Obviously, this is a file that we follow from week to week. Finally, without having a debate today, we can even wonder whether Britain itself will not adopt an attitude of renunciation. I don't hide that that's what I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u7	Mr President, Minister, these events took place at the end of February and they are shocking. Rwandan security forces shot Congolese refugees. This was also confirmed by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. These were hundreds of refugees from the refugee camp in Kiziba, in the western part of Rwanda, who had gone to the local UNHCR office in Karongi to protest against the reduction of food rations and the harsh conditions in the refugee camps. UNHCR itself stated that it is a tragedy: "This tragedy should have been avoided and disproportionately use of force against desperate refugees is not acceptable." It is known that thousands of refugees from the DRC and Burundi live in Rwanda. I myself went there a few years ago, together with the then chairman of this committee, Mr de Donnea. It's a very unusual situation that police forces are shooting at people on the run. They are Congolese refugees in Rwanda, they speak the language and they are Rwandan. In 2012 you yourself visited a Congolese refugee camp in Rwanda. At that time, you said you were very impressed. We've been six years and there's still no recovery. Minister, what was the reaction of our government to the incident in Karongi? Have there been any diplomatic contacts? What is your assessment and analysis of the current refugee situation in the camps in Rwanda? In what way can Belgium or other countries better assist the competent agencies in the reception of these displaced Congolese people?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u8	As you have already mentioned, on 22 February the site near the UNHCR office in Kibuye in the western province was the scene of incidents. In doing so, the police shot real bullets at Congolese refugees from the camp in Kiziba. Since 20 February they had met there to express their dissatisfaction with their situation, which is getting worse from month to month. According to the police report, five of the refugees were killed. However, UNHCR speaks of eleven deaths, eight in Kibuye and three in the camp itself. The protest relates to the situation in the camps, but also to opposition to biometric registration. According to several sources, a minority of influential refugees, including members of the executive camp committee, would have manipulated the majority of campers and escalated the situation. The immediate trigger for the demonstration was the decline in WFP food rations. There were apparently other underlying reasons, including the possible presence of weapons in the camp and the relatively poor relationship between the government and the leaders of the camp. Due to a funding gap between the two major UN humanitarian organisations UNHCR and the World Food Programme, the World Food Programme was committed to reducing food rations by 10% in November 2017, and again by 25% in January 2018. Current budgetary provisions allow these rations to be maintained from 75% until July 2018. The Belgian humanitarian aid financed refugee response in Rwanda. In the context of forgotten and underfunded crises, Belgian humanitarian aid released EUR 1 million for the World Food Programme to provide food aid to refugees in Rwanda. At the same time, EUR 500 000 was delivered to UNHCR. Belgium also provides indirect funding. In general, Belgium calls for increased humanitarian aid to the countries of the Great Lakes region. I'm concerned about the violence by the Rwandan security service. I've asked our embassy to follow this closely. As UNHCR noted, such a police response is excessive and measures need to be taken to protect refugees. There must be guarantees that such an incident cannot occur again. This also requires a thorough investigation. The situation was discussed during a contact between the diplomatic corps and Minister Mushikiwabo. In the meantime, the Rwandan government has set up a task force to investigate the case. Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees, was in Rwanda early this month and discussed the incident with the government and President Kagame. UNHCR wants to make clearer agreements with the government on the civil nature of the refugee camps. The case was also discussed by our embassy with Mr Grandi. With regard to the global refugee situation in Rwanda, I note that the ongoing crises in Congo and Burundi mean that refugees remain in Rwanda for a long time. More than 170 000 refugees are currently in six camps, leading to much frustration. As far as the DRC is concerned, at the humanitarian donor conference in Geneva on 13 April, my colleague of Development Cooperation specifically called for additional attention from both the Congolese authorities and the international community to be given to this worrying situation in the country. So we need to go further and see how it is possible for the Rwandan government to take a number of measures to avoid such an incident and provide protection on the ground for refugees. We are also trying to provide humanitarian aid to the refugees and also to find a solution in the two crises, but you know that so far it is not easy in Burundi or in the DRC.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u9	It is good that we are focusing not only on Congo and Burundi, but also on Rwanda. We have also included that point in your approved note on Central Africa. Although Rwanda is located within one area with Congo and Burundi, there are considerable differences in terms of problems. That does not mean that there are no problems or that there would be no need to follow that situation there. I will try to ask you more questions about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u10	Minister, a lot of water has already flowed to the sea when it comes to Russia. My question originally focused on the progress of the reform process, on the implementation of the Minsk agreements and on the situation in eastern Ukraine. That was just after the attack in Salisbury, over which a lot of ink has flowed. It is an understatement that the tensions between Russia and Europe, and especially the United Kingdom, arose at that time. At that time, I asked whether the additional tensions have an impact on the EU-Russia relationship. Maybe that was prophetic, because today is indeed the case. However, I would like your opinion on this. There was also the statement by the Foreign Affairs Council on the attack in Salisbury. Russia was called upon to respond urgently to the questions of the United Kingdom and the international community. European sanctions were also discussed in case Russia fails to do so. Finally, on 7 February, you stated in the Chamber that little progress has been made in recent years on the implementation of the Minsk agreements. Perhaps you could give me some insight into the results of the exchange of views you had in the Foreign Affairs Council? The EU continues to support the policy of non-recognition and implementation of the Minsk agreements. What is the EU's long-term vision on this issue? How do you see the situation in Crimea evolving?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u11	EU policy towards Ukraine is based on the EU's unconditional support for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. The EU condemns the illegal annexation of Crimea and Russian interference in Eastern Ukraine. The EU calls on Russia and Ukraine to implement the Minsk agreements fully and without delay. The EU has a strict sanction regime against Russia to encourage the Kremlin to take a more constructive stance in the conflict. In addition, the EU, including Belgium, places a strong emphasis on the reform agenda in Ukraine. The government in Kiev has already taken important steps, but there is still a great deal of work to be done, especially in the area of strengthening the rule of law. The parameters of this EU policy remain valid. This was confirmed during the discussion on Ukraine at the Foreign Affairs Council on 19 March 2018. During the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg on Monday 16 April 2018, we heard that members of the Normandy format might sit around the table again. France and Germany have tried to do so. So far no progress has been made in implementing the Minsk agreements. The Foreign Affairs Council and the European Council indeed called on Russia to cooperate fully in the investigation into the facts in Salisbury of the United Kingdom and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. However, the rhetoric from Moscow raises doubts about Russia's willingness to register in that process. Today a discussion will take place in The Hague on the technical analysis carried out by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on the chemical substance used in Salisbury. As a member of the executive board of the organisation, Belgium will participate actively in the debate. I have asked my colleagues to follow the same line on the executive board of the organisation. During his intervention, our ambassador will call for respect for the provisions of the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and for the work of the organisation. We cannot accept further erosion of the international standard on the prohibition of chemical weapons. Any additional European sanctions are not dealt with in the current context. This was also apparent from the debate at the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg last Monday. As has been said, we are maintaining the current sanctions, as no progress has been made on the implementation of the Minsk agreements. In addition, the European Union will take steps in the coming months to increase the European Union's resilience to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear risks, including through closer European cooperation. At the same time, the European Union and the Member States will increase their capacity to address hybrid threats, such as cyber attacks. This is the case for all Member States, including Belgium, which had to deal with such attacks a few times already. We need to pay more attention to the security of this sector, perhaps through more cooperation with other partners and not just the other European Member States. Furthermore, there has been no real progress in the Minsk process on the ground in Ukraine since 7 February, either in terms of security or in terms of politics. The humanitarian situation also remains appalling. However, the implementation of the Minsk agreements remains the only way forward. This was also the case at the Foreign Affairs Council on 19 March. There is also unanimous agreement on the European policy of sanctions against Russia for Krimannexation and interference in the Donbass. It will have to be seen whether President Putin's re-election will bring about a change in the Kremlin's foreign policy, but the current context certainly gives little cause for optimism. You have also seen developments following the new events in Syria. Nor was it easy to reach an agreement on this issue at Security Council level. We have had a number of discussions on this in the European Union. As far as our relationship with Russia is concerned, we must continue with the same open dialogue, where, on the one hand, we have a very strong position on Ukraine and a number of other dossiers, but, on the other hand, we should also discuss and cooperate on a possible way out of certain crises, such as Syria, for example in the fight against climate change or in the field of energy. We are always trying to maintain dialogue with Russia. This has now been accepted at European level. I have heard comments on the Prime Minister's and myself's visit to Russia in the preparation of the committee. That was before the events in Syria. At the recent meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, I learned that my Dutch colleague was in Moscow last week for a discussion with Minister Lavrov. My Austrian colleague will now go to Russia for contact with Minister Lavrov and President Macron will go to Saint Petersburg in May for contacts with President Putin. So we are not the only ones with such an approach. In short, we must take a very strong position, while at the same time keeping open the possibility of direct talks with our Russian colleagues. There is often criticism here, as if Belgium were the only country trying to maintain contacts with certain partners. In a few weeks' time, however, it will be possible to see that the Netherlands, Austria and France are following our example.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u12	Minister, Belgium's position has indeed been somewhat different and unique. That is still the case, and we support the way in which the Prime Minister preserves the opening to Russia. It is very important, however, that we should be linked to this. You have also stressed this: Europe is working for resilience. Those who today advocate the dismantling of defence and the reduction of Europe's resilience must live on Mars. This is absolutely necessary. We must also invest in NBC-weasurability, i.e. nuclear, biological and chemical resilience. Belgium must also invest in its defence capacity. A few months ago I visited a hospital in Israel, the Galilee Medical Center, led by Professor Barhoum. Belgium should not be compared with Israel, but there is a fully underground NBC-protected hospital, where even Syrians are cared for. We must be aware that we must work on this resilience, but at the same time we must also keep the door open for dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u13	Mr President, Minister, as chairman of the Belgian-Taiwan friendship group, I sometimes come into contact with Members of Parliament from Taiwan and the representatives of Taiwan in Brussels. It is a subject that may be addressed here. During the National People's Congress in China, President Xi gave a remarkable speech. It was firm and soaked in a sauce of threatening language to Taiwan. President Xi warned that any attempt at separatism would be condemned by the people and punished by history. I hope that phrase does not apply to the Flemish nationalists who are calling for separatism here. He also mentioned the peaceful reunification of the motherland, Mainland China, and the Republic of China, Taiwan, and he said that all actions to divide China would be doomed to failure. So the suspicions have been growing for some time now. Mainland China looks at the policy of Taiwanese President Tsai with argus eyes. I have met both President Ma and President Tsai in recent years, and there is indeed another discourse. There has been a question from the Taiwanese to be a little stricter, to highlight the individuality more. Taipei also feels threatened by Chinese military exercises in the South China Sea and by the unilateral opening of new routes through Beijing in the Strait of Taiwan. Mr President, can you tell me to what extent this worrying evolution is also taking place in European circles? There are many resolutions between Taiwan and Europe. Is this debate alive? Is this what you're talking about? Is this problem also on the radar of European leaders? It's been a while, but how did you feel about President Xi's speech? What is your opinion of his fierce speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u14	Mr President, Mr Luykx, as always, the European Union is following developments in China and in the surrounding region with particular attention to the global strategy for the EU's Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy, and stresses the importance of a strategic dialogue with China at the highest level so that the EU can effectively defend its interests. With regard to Taiwan, the European Union uses the so-called one-China policy, with only China enjoying diplomatic recognition. In addition, the European Union will benefit from controlling tensions in the region, both for political and economic reasons. For example, it is very important to guarantee free maritime passage in the South China Sea. This position is reflected, inter alia, in the annual strategic dialogue between the European Union and China at the level of the High Representative for Foreign Affairs, as well as at the EU-China Summit. In his closing address to the National People's Congress, President Xi Jinping argued in favour of a peaceful reunification of Taiwan with the motherland, but he indeed added that "actions or tricks to divide China into failure are doomed and will be welcomed to the condemnation of the people and punishment by history." President Xi Jinping thus took on a more nationalistic tone than in the past. However, our interpretation is that this message was mainly intended for domestic use. There are no signs that China wishes to sacrifice its economic development for a military adventure. With regard to Belgian policy in that dossier, I can tell you that we are sticking to the reference lines adopted by the Council of the European Union on 24 September 2014. Belgium therefore respects the one-China policy, but at the same time we support the initiatives that promote dialogue, practical cooperation and mutual trust between both sides of the Taiwan Strait. I believe that we should go in that direction. I'm trying to organize a visit to China at the end of this year. We're looking for a suitable moment. We will continue to move in the same direction in our relationship with China.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u15	Mr Minister, I think that the subject of Asia, China and the events there should be a little more attention in our committee. I might mention that we also invited the Chinese ambassador to this committee, as did the representative of the Representative Office of Taiwan in Brussels. In this way we can enter into the debate on Asia and the geopolitical situation there. A lot of new initiatives are being developed on the ground by the US and Europe. I appreciate your position on this matter and the fact that you are putting this issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u16	Question No 24643 by Mr. Van Peteghem is postponed. My question No 24656 has been withdrawn. Questions Nos 24671 by Mrs Jadin and 24885 by Mr Crusnière are deferred. Questions Nos 24671 and 24683 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions, as is Question No 24758 by Mr Blanchart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u17	Mr President, Minister, the second conference on "Supporting the future of Syria and the region", organised by the European Union, will be held in Brussels on 24 and 25 April. This conference, which is a follow-up to the 2017 Brussels Conference, will aim to maintain the attention and response of the international community to the Syrian crisis at the forefront of international priorities, and will encourage the full implementation of the commitments made in Brussels in April 2017. This will include extending support for the process to lead, under the auspices of the United Nations, to a political solution negotiated in accordance with United Nations Security Council resolution 2254, and ensuring that the needs of Syrians, in Syria or neighbouring countries, are met, with the humanitarian aspects to be held at the top of the poster in view of the serious humanitarian emergency prevailing there. The situation on the ground is deteriorating every day; my colleague Stéphane Crusnière will deepen this aspect. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this conference. What position will Belgium stand for? Will health-related aspects also be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you again about the situation in Syria and the potential chemical attacks carried out by the regime in eastern Ghouta, causing dozens of deaths and thousands of civilian casualties. My questions will also focus on last weekend's strikes by the United States, France and the United Kingdom. It is well known that the United Nations Security Council has met on several occasions on the subject, without, however, voting on a resolution on the subject. Has Belgium been informed of the imminence of these strikes and of their implementation. Was a particular request made at any time? What has been the coordination within NATO? What position did she stand for? Do the events of the past few days affect our participation in the international coalition? I believe that on Monday a meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers was held. What was the content of the discussions? Has a common position been defended? What is that of Belgian diplomacy that has been defended within the UN, the European Union, NATO and the coalition against Daesh, in this context, which is more worrying than ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u19	Since the other three authors are not present, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u20	Mr President, I will of course also answer their questions. Mrs Grovonius, Mr Crusnière, as you read in the statement made by the federal government on Saturday on the joint attack by the United States, France and the United Kingdom on chemical weapons production sites in Syria, our country condemns any use of chemical weapons. This is a flagrant violation of international law that the international community cannot tolerate under any circumstances. Belgium understands that its partners have intervened militarily. An international response was inevitable after the blocking of the United Nations Security Council, where Russia has repeatedly prevented, with its veto power, the establishment of an objective and independent investigation. It remains to be seen in the following days to what extent Russia will continue to prevent further initiatives, including that of France in the Security Council. The International, Independent and Impartial Mechanism remains more necessary than ever and can, in this case, play a role in the fight against impunity in Syria, including the use of chemical weapons. Cooperation between OPCW (Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons) and IIIM (Independent and impartial international mechanism) can be useful in this regard. We therefore express the hope that the Fact-Finding Mission announced by OPCW will be able to begin its investigation as soon as possible. Of particular concern is the fact that even the on-site investigation is again delayed in the name of security issues. At the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg on Monday, I, together with my EU colleagues, also adopted Council conclusions which repeat this message. Among other things, specific emphasis was placed on the role that the European Union can play. In fact, next week an international conference on Syria will be organised in Brussels which will not only address the humanitarian problems. Belgium will also argue for an important part to be devoted to the political process. In addition to the general ministerial session, there will also be specific sessions at the conference on the humanitarian situation, including health care and the role of women in the conflict in Syria. We will therefore also address health problems at this conference. After all, it is essential that the so-called Geneva process, led by UN Envoy Staffan de Mistura, be re-launched, for a global and inclusive solution that all parties in Syria can agree with. The pillars of the Syrian regime, in particular Russia and Iran, have an important responsibility in this regard, by calling on President Assad to work genuinely on a political process. That is why our country is also calling for dialogue with those two key players in the conflict to be kept open. After all, these two countries have an important key to enabling a political solution to the conflict. The number of cyber attacks continues to increase worldwide, both states and non-state actors are very active. The risks are therefore pertinent. As far as our own national security is concerned, our security and intelligence services, as well as the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium, under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, are best placed for a concrete current threat analysis. Both within the EU and within NATO, cyber security is already an important focus today, with a lot of work being done on it. I refer, among other things, to the conclusions on a malicious cyber attack, which the European Foreign Ministers adopted last Monday. In doing so, the European Member States sent out a clear and common signal that the use of information and communication technology for malicious cyber attacks is unacceptable. There is good and pragmatic cooperation between NATO and the EU in this area. In 2016, the Heads of State or Government in Warsaw issued a Cyber Defence Pledge, which directs national efforts in the field of cyber defence by NATO alliance members. The direct cause for this was hybrid warfare, as established in Ukraine. The European Council of 22 March instructed Ms Mogherini to intensify work on, inter alia, hybrid threats, including cyber attacks, and to report back to the June European Council. With regard to the strikes carried out by our American, French and British partners, I can confirm what I have already announced. We first received information on the evidence gathered, according to our colleagues, to conclude with near certainty the use of chemical weapons in Duma. Documents were produced by France in particular. Turning back to the strikes themselves, we were warned of the imminence of a decision concerning them; not of the details of their organization but of the fact that the countries were coordinating for this purpose. I myself had, a few days before, an interview with Federica Mogherini and we had the same conviction that before the Council last Monday, these actions would take place, but I did not know when. Within NATO, we have taken a common attitude. It is quite logical for partners in a transatlantic military alliance to support the operations carried out. It is sometimes more complicated for countries with military neutrality, but you will have found that in the Foreign Affairs Council there was also support for all the actions taken to combat the use of chemical weapons. I want to come back to Monday's Foreign Affairs Council. The various elements were recalled concerning the situation in Duma and the reactions of our partners. I'm not going to go back to that, but I'm going to insist on a few things. The strikes were announced as being very targeted, at sites identified by the three countries that intervened, such as chemical weapons production or research sites and with the intention of not attacking Russian installations. This is an important part of the relationship with the various partners. We had on the agenda of the Council the European Union's relations with Iran and Russia. As I said earlier to Mr Luykx, what is important is to confirm the willingness to keep this logic of dialogue open, both with one country and with the other country. Together with Iran, we are calling for the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). To do this, we must try to convince our American colleagues to stay on board. President Trump is expected to announce a decision on this matter on May 12, 2018. It is also a question of putting pressure on Iran in another area, that of ballistic missiles and Iran's regional role, particularly in Syria. In this respect, we have recalled that sanctions exist. We sometimes seem to forget this, but there are four or five different sets of sanctions at European Union level on Iran, whether in the nuclear field, the area of regional role and the influence of a number of actors in Syria, but also, as I mentioned myself, on human rights. We have often intervened on this issue. There are also sanctions and other measures taken at international level in which Europe participates. We want to move forward on these elements, but we also want to have a dialogue to see to what extent Iran can put pressure on the Damascus regime to participate in political negotiations in Geneva on a political solution to the Syrian issue because there will be no military solution - as we have often pointed out - and we must take into account the precedents. It is obvious that what has happened in Libya must lead to reflections on the ability to find a political solution if one really wants to rebuild the country and to develop once again a stable and pacified situation in Syria. As I pointed out earlier, with Russia, this is the same approach. We remain very firm about Ukraine in terms of Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. We therefore remain calling for the correct implementation and implementation of the Minsk agreements. Otherwise, sanctions continue to be applied. Just as there are sanctions on Iran in some areas, there are still sanctions against Russia in the context of the situation in Ukraine. We are also very clear about the need for Russia to participate in investigations into the use of chemical weapons. As I mentioned earlier, there is today a meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. We're on the executive committee. We will therefore ask for Russia's full participation in this investigation, on the understanding that we have obtained from our British colleagues that all information is shared with all members of the Organization, which is an important element of transparency for the events in Salisbury. You will have found that we also ask for complete access from the organisation to the Duma site, in order to be able to check on the place what the situation is. Unfortunately, as I have pointed out, there are rather worrying delays on the spot with regard to access to the site. We would like, as I have recalled, to see a new independent mechanism put in place, as France and others have proposed to the Security Council, to ensure that investigations can be carried out to respond very quickly to any possibility of the use of chemical weapons. I recall that there was a mechanism and that it was the Russian veto that prevented the continuation and extension of the use of this mechanism. We are in a very special situation. Despite all this, it is the same approach. How, then, in contacts with Russia, can we press for Russia to try to convince the Damascus regime to move towards negotiations in Geneva? The reasoning is always the same: the European Union has done a good part of its work, in particular by succeeding, with others, in convincing oppositions to go to negotiations without preconditions. The condition that was often issued was the immediate departure of Bashar al-Assad. We have always said that we must first negotiate with the regime, and that is what we have always done. It's not new. This has always been the case in the Geneva discussions. We are still negotiating with representatives of the Damascus government. This does not remove anything from what I have always said: beyond the transition, I do not see Bashar al-Assad playing a role in the future of his own country. However, negotiations should resume. To that end, we must have a dialogue with Iran and Russia in particular. Indeed, the current blocking point is, as Staffan de Mistura confirmed to me in my interviews with him a few weeks ago, the lack of willingness to share power. As long as the Damascus delegation does not come to a table with a real will to share power, that is to say to think about a Syria of tomorrow where all the communities - Sunni, Shiite, Kurdish, but also Alawite of course - will participate in the management of the country, we will not find a solution. This is not an example to be taken as a model, but the distribution of the roles found in Lebanon, even if it is neither perfect nor transposable, allows at least to ensure a better situation than the situation of open conflict in Syria, which has often been experienced in Lebanon. That's what's at stake here. It is always the same approach: how to be in direct contact? I will not go back to other examples around the world, but I have often said that if I were to follow a number of recommendations that I sometimes hear in this committee, I would be on vacation three quarters of the year. There are so many people you can hardly talk to. We don't have that conviction. Our conviction is that the role of diplomacy, be it European or Belgian, is to go to contact, daring to say what we do not agree with, including, when necessary, by taking sanctions, but also by trying to find common solutions for conflicts. For Syria, it's obvious. At next week's conference, the European Union will highlight its willingness to ensure that alongside the humanitarian aspect, including health, there is real pressure to move towards a resumption of political dialogue. It will not be simple, because if the resumption of political dialogue in Syria was simple, this conflict would not last for almost seven years. But as long as there is not a clear will to move towards this power-sharing, we will not emerge from this difficult situation. I remain convinced that we have a role to play, because the European Union has possible contacts with partners. The Americans will obviously also have to act in this direction, so that the Russians and Iranians use their influence to bring each of the players back to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u21	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u22	Mr Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive elements of the answer. I'll come back to you after the conference to get feedback.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u23	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Like you, like Belgium, I also condemn the use of chemical weapons. I am all the more concerned about the information we have been able to read today about the delivery of chemicals by Antwerp companies. I will have the opportunity to ask you again about this, as I will also, normally tomorrow, with the Minister of Finance, about possible customs deficiencies. It's not an annoyance. We need to be soothed. I will come back to you and to the Minister of Finance on this matter. It is also important, as you said, that we can conduct the investigation. It must take place on the spot as quickly as possible, of course. We must continue to try to establish it through diplomatic channels. After the military offensive, we must now launch, as you said, a diplomatic offensive to try to move forward on this issue. You have not answered about the involvement that this entails in the international coalition; but I think that, for the time being, we are a little blurred too. There is no participation on our part at this time. There could be one, and I said the same thing yesterday to the Minister of Defence. If any changes were to be made to the mandate, or if particular requests were to be made to Belgium, it is important that Parliament is informed and that we have a debate in this Parliament on this matter. For the rest, we are somewhat waiting for the reactions of each other. You didn't talk much about Turkey. It is always difficult to know their position. It's one of the keys. But again, I believe that the diplomatic offensive must continue at the level of the Security Council, the European Union and NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u24	Deputy Prime Minister, on 9 April this year began a week of negotiations at the United Nations Human Rights Council on the drafting of a declaration on the rights of peasant women. In the event of adoption, the text will then be submitted for formal approval to the UN Member States at the next General Assembly, scheduled for September 2018. Let us remember that 70% of the food produced on our planet comes from peasant agriculture. However, 80 per cent of the world's hungry are rural farmers. Industrial production, monocultures, the development of agrofuels, speculation on land or biopiracy lead to the grabbing of the land and natural resources of rural workers, fishermen, shepherds, forest dwellers, and thus to the disappearance of their means of subsistence. That is why I asked the Minister for Development Cooperation yesterday, who also encouraged me to address it to you, which I had already planned to do. It is in this context that the idea of an official UN declaration has emerged in peasant trade unions and other associations, including environmental ones, and has now been discussed in the United Nations cenacles. It speaks of rights to land, seeds, decent income and food sovereignty. The draft text under discussion innovates by highlighting the concept of the common good: forests, grasslands, rivers, fishing areas, on which rural communities depend for their cultural identity, but also and above all their food survival. For the first time, international law would therefore protect the "common" as a collective institution of self-management. While the States of Africa, Asia and Latin America support the project, Western countries are not very enthusiastic. The United States and Great Britain have totally rejected this initiative. And the countries of the European Union – apart from Portugal last year – abstained at previous preparatory meetings. Belgium's role is crucial since our country is still sitting on the Human Rights Council this year. Minister, what position did Belgium stand during the discussions held in Geneva in April 2018? What is your view on the idea of sacralizing, in a universal text, the rights of peasants and, in particular, the concept of "common", new in international law? Is the promotion of equality between women and men, promoted by this draft text, in rural areas not a reflection of many initiatives carried out by you, but also by the Minister responsible for Women's Cooperation on other international issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u25	Mr Hellings, it is a bit of a shame that we are just two more to listen to the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u26	Mr President, I am pleased to speak and welcome the arrival of Mr Hellings. In concrete terms, I believe that the best is always the enemy of good and I will explain it to you in order to give you the position of Belgium and the European Union. In accordance with the resolution adopted at the 36th session of the Human Rights Council, a draft Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other Persons Working in Rural Areas will be submitted to the 38th session of the Human Rights Council. A draft declaration had just been negotiated at the fifth session of the intergovernmental working group on the rights of peasants and other persons working in rural areas. This text is currently under discussion within the European Union. The Belgian delegation's position in the negotiations in this context is in line with the European Union's statements. Moreover, the Member States of the Union abstained, you recalled, in a previous vote in the Human Rights Council on the resolution establishing the mandate for these negotiations. The concern of the European Union, which our country shares, concerns the proliferation of formal human rights instruments. It was a priority that the universal nature of human rights should be upheld and that those rights should be implemented on the ground. This mainstreaming of human rights in our foreign policy is a priority for our country. It is therefore important that we defend and strengthen existing human rights instruments within the United Nations. Like the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union, Belgium is concerned that this initiative of the Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Peasants does not contribute to the fragmentation of human rights, which would have the direct effect of weakening its universality, since any new rights included in the Declaration would apply only to peasant women and peasants. Rather than defining new rights, our analysis is that it would be more useful to focus on the important issue of access to land, seeds, etc. The Member States of the European Union have therefore worked in the course of the negotiations on this declaration to be part of the existing instruments and to focus on how they apply to people in rural areas. I would like to stress that Belgium attaches great importance to respect for gender equality, and embassies do not fail to follow up on cases of abuse and violations of these rights, often in coordination with the European Union. Concrete actions for the protection and realization of the rights of peasant women are also carried out through our development cooperation programmes. Still recently, Belgium has been actively working on strong conclusions at the last session of the Commission on the Status of Women, whose priority theme was precisely the problems to be addressed and the opportunities to be exploited to achieve gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls in rural areas. So it is in this logic that we fit in. As I have said on several occasions, as far as our representation in international forums is concerned, I see no problem in having hearings of our representatives on the spot. Indeed, we must be aware that we really favour the universal nature of human rights. And we are very concerned, as is the case with the members of the European Union, whenever we come with the desire to identify a particular situation, as if it could not benefit from existing instruments for the protection of human rights or as if there was a particular specificity to take into account. As I have just pointed out, it is clear that we are very active in moving also towards the use of existing instruments in promoting, for example, the empowerment of women and girls in rural areas, but within the framework of the universality of human rights. These are the reasons why the European Union – not just Belgium – has a number of observations and remarks against or about initiatives like this one. This is not the substance of the problem. This is the way to approach the latter and the instruments to be used. One cannot constantly claim the universality of human rights and imagine that one can compartmentalize situations alongside one another. The instruments exist within the United Nations. We can strengthen them. We are, moreover, fully prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u27	Mr President, Mr Minister, the question of gender, in any case in the agricultural field, is very much linked to the question of ruralism. Indeed, we are talking about farmers, but, in fact, we are talking mainly about women farmers. I hear your argument about the European Union and the idea of not fragmenting human rights. In that case, it would be an official declaration and not a treaty. The scope of an official declaration aimed at recognizing the concept of "commons" for rivers, meadows, forests and other fishing areas is intended to introduce into the international legal corpus a new concept, that of "commons", by a general declaration and then, if necessary, to amend other treaties. The stakes are as follows: today we are witnessing a proliferation of trade agreements aimed at protecting the rights of investors all over the world – you know something as you follow them very thoroughly – and the European Union is playing an important role in this area. The aim is to protect the rights of investors in relation to other rights. The challenge of the multilateral discussion within the United Nations is to increase the safety of people who have been using and living for tens of generations on forests, meadows and rivers by a principle of "common law" that they could oppose, where appropriate, potential investors who, in a profit-making sense, cannot be condemned, take over these lands, rivers and woods. The challenge is to recognize that the human right to live in the place where all previous generations have lived is paramount in relation to that of a potential investor. In my opinion, there is still work to be done. The European Union is carrying out this work. I hear that Portugal has a dissonant voice in relation to the 27 other countries of the European Union, since it did not abstain but voted in favour. I think we could think about moving in that direction. This subject is extremely interesting and will allow us to go further in a later debate. We won't miss it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u28	Mr President, on 30 March last, a "Great Return March" was organised in the Gaza Strip. This protest movement, which will last six weeks, provides for rallies along the security fence to demand the "right of return" of Palestinian refugees and denounce the strict blockade imposed by the Hebrew State on Gaza. The Israeli army opened fire on Palestinians who had approached a few hundred metres from the barriers. On Monday evening, the Palestinian side suffered 22 deaths and more than 2,470 injuries, including 1,000 by live fire, according to the Ministry of Health in Gaza. There was no injury on the Israeli side. The Israeli army claims to have used live bullets only against demonstrators throwing stones or explosive devices in its direction trying to sabotage the ultra-secure barrier along the border. The Palestinians accuse Israeli soldiers of having fired at demonstrators who did not represent any immediate danger. The Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, as well as the High Representative of the European Union, Ms. Mogherini, called for an independent investigation into the use of live bullets by Israel, demands immediately rejected by the Hebrew State. Minister, can you take stock of the situation? What is Belgium's position on this? Will it also support this request for an independent investigation? Will this be addressed in our bilateral diplomatic relations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u29	Mrs Grovonius, like all those who are committed to peace in the Middle East and to a two-State solution – the only dignified, just and lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict – I absolutely deplore the thirty deaths and the many Palestinian wounded who have fallen since 30 March. We believe that these tragic incidents are dangerously moving us away from a resumption of the necessary dialogue between the parties and merely consolidating the extremist forces on both sides. For the time being, the priority is to avoid the reproduction of such incidents. That is why Belgium and, together with it, the European Union have called on the Israeli authorities to exercise maximum restraint in order to prevent any disproportionate response from their security forces in the days and weeks to come. All parties concerned must also work to stop the escalation of violence and contribute to a return to calm. This also concerns Hamas and the factions that control Gaza. Belgium fully supports, as I have recalled, the request made by the High Representative of the European Union Federica Mogherini and by the Secretary-General of the United Nations Antonio Guterres for an independent and impartial investigation into these incidents. The use of lethal fire against unarmed demonstrators who do not pose an immediate threat to the security of Israel's borders and the lives of its citizens could, if established, constitute a violation of Israel's humanitarian law and international obligations. I also note that there are voices in Israel itself against the policy of absolute firmness that is currently being advocated by the Israeli government against Palestinian protest movements. Through our representation on the ground, as in the case of the European Union, in the various contacts that we will pursue at the diplomatic level, we will return to this situation. The priority is to prevent this dramatic situation that we have been experiencing since 30 March from continuing or renewing and, of course – as in other issues we have mentioned today – from returning to a negotiating situation with a view to a two-State solution. Unfortunately, the latter is losing more and more ground. We have talked about other aspects of this issue, but this is particularly so in view of the dramatic context we have been experiencing in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u30	Minister, thank you. The two-State solution is the one we call for. One way of achieving this would also be for the Belgian Government to recognize the Palestinian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u31	Question No 24829 by Mr Peter De Roover and questions No 24839 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, No 25006 by Mr Benoit Hellings, No 24920 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière, No 25007 and No 25014 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin. Questions Nos 24863 and 24935 by Mrs Fatma Pehlivan are transformed into written questions, as are questions Nos 24937 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and 24979 and 24980 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u32	Minister, "there is no doubt that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. It's clear: point to the line! There is no discussion on this. But today we are in a political context, and Europe sees Jerusalem as part of the negotiations for a two-state solution." It was in these terms that Secretary of State Philippe De Backer spoke in an interview about Jerusalem. However, a few weeks earlier, in plenary session, or in other debates and discussions that we had in the Committee on External Relations, the Prime Minister made it clear that, according to the government, President Trump's statement on the transfer of the American embassy to Jerusalem was not in conformity with international law and threatened the peace process. He told me that he condemned this unacceptable statement by the American president, who was just throwing oil on the fire. It must be noted that the statements of your colleague Secretary of State raise questions. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know whether the position of the government and our diplomacy on the status of Jerusalem and the two-state solution are called into question by these statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u33	Mrs Grovonius, I can be very brief: the answer is no. The position of the Belgian Government on the question of the future status of Jerusalem and on Belgium's support for a two-State solution, as a dignified, just and lasting outcome to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, has not changed. This is not the scope of the Secretary of State's statements. We continue to believe that Jerusalem is intended, as I have already said before this Committee, to become the common capital of both the State of Israel and the future State of Palestine, once negotiations between the parties have reached a balanced agreement, providing a satisfactory solution to all the crucial issues of this complex equation. There is no change in the government's position on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u34	Minister, I am reassured, although I am still waiting for the government to recognize the State of Palestine. Nevertheless, I find it troubling, if not unacceptable, that a member of this government can afford such statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u35	Madam President, Minister, on 20 March the European Union created a broad international donor coalition to provide drinking water to two million people in the Gaza Strip, creating the largest infrastructure project ever implemented in these occupied territories. Thus, this desalination plant will provide no less than 55 million cubic metres of drinking water per year, thus meeting the enormous health needs of the local population. Today, two million Palestinians in Gaza depend on the coastal aquifer as a source of water. The capacity of this table is insufficient to meet local needs, especially since its quality is far below WHO standards, which is a risk to the growing population of Gaza. In addition to the installation of desalination, this project also includes power supply facilities to meet energy needs – even 15 per cent renewable – as well as the construction of an aqueduct to allow the distribution of drinking water throughout the Gaza Strip. Minister, what is the total amount raised at this conference organised by the European Union in Brussels? Apart from the countries of the European Union, what are the other donor countries? There was already a water treatment plant in the occupied territories. Is it still functional? In the past, some members of the European Union had also participated in the construction of Yasser Arafat International Airport. Barely inaugurated in 1998, it was demolished by Israeli aviation three years later. Who can guarantee that this new water treatment plant will not suffer the same fate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u36	Mr Flahaux, at the conference organised by the European Commission on 20 March in Brussels, the total amount of pledges was EUR 456 million, which corresponds to more or less 81% of the total estimated cost of this project aimed at the construction of a central seawater desalination plant for the Gaza Strip, as well as the construction of an underground water distribution line connecting the two ends of the enclave in a north-south axis. This important project, which has been under development for several years and is designed to provide a sustainable response to the water needs of Gaza's two million inhabitants, is led by the Palestinian Aquifer Authority, the European Investment Bank (EIB), the World Bank, the Quartet Office and the Union for the Mediterranean. I can give you details of the promises of support that have been made by the various actors, multilateral and bilateral. Given the scale of the pledges, the European Commission considered this conference a success and paved the way for the implementation of the first phase of the construction of the facilities under the aegis of the EIB, which is to launch a first round of tenders around 15 April 2018. We must not hide that concerns remain, on the one hand, about the actual liquidation, over time, of the promised funds – some promises are conditioned – and, on the other hand, about the implementation of the project on the ground, which remains a risky undertaking given the circumstances of the blockade of the Gaza Strip. The 42 delegations present at the conference, including those from Israel, Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, expressed their support for the construction of this infrastructure, the largest ever envisaged in the Gaza Strip. The future will tell us how each of the parties will fulfil its commitments. The most important thing is that the international community has been able to mobilize for this humanitarian cause, and this, on the initiative of the European Union – I welcome it. It remains the largest provider of humanitarian aid and assistance to Palestine, if the efforts of the Union and those of the Member States are combined. The issue of access to water that meets WHO standards for Gazans is a crucial issue for the long-term sustainability of the enclave. For this reason, Belgium had already contributed to the rehabilitation of the North Gaza desalination unit amounting to €6 million out of a total budget of €59 million. This unit was inaugurated in the presence of Palestinian Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah and a representative of our consulate in Jerusalem on 13 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u37	Thank you, Minister. I hope that, since Israel was also present at this conference, it will not come to his mind to demolish this desalination plant, as was the case at the airport. Human beings have the right to use water. I hope that will be so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u38	Madam President, Minister, on Thursday, February 22, the NGO Transparency International unveiled its ranking on the state of corruption in the world. The results show that two thirds of countries have a score below 50 - a low level of flattering - and that efforts to combat this practice are generally declining. Corruption is probably one of the worst scourges a State can experience. The direct result of poor governance is precarious economic situations, persecution, environmental destruction, non-respect for press freedom, etc. It should be noted that our country is in the sixteenth place in this ranking, which is honourable but which must still encourage us to make progress in this area. Minister, what actions can we take on the international scene to encourage states particularly affected by corruption to continue and strengthen their fight against this practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u39	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, corrupt practices disrupt the functioning of a society because they undermine the people's indispensable confidence in the legitimacy of institutions and authorities. The social contract cannot therefore be established and the general interest may remain in the background. The FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation therefore welcomes the contributions of NGOs, such as Transparency International, in their fight against corruption. Corruption and, more generally, the importance of strong institutions and the proper functioning of the rule of law are points of attention of Belgium's international policy. In order to combat corruption on a large scale, Belgium must enter into partnerships at the international level. These not only provide a sound international legal framework for good governance, but also monitor the effective implementation of anti-corruption measures. A number of international organizations therefore provide important added value in the fight against corruption. I am thinking of the OECD, FATF, UNODC and GRECO. The Belgian contribution to these supervisory bodies has recently concentrated, with the Netherlands, on the establishment of synergies between these organisations with regard to the management of international anti-corruption conventions operating under a peer review mechanism. Closer cooperation between the secretariats concerned would allow for the exchange of good practices in order to develop a common strategy, in the event that a participating country does not implement or insufficiently implement anti-corruption conventions and, ultimately, strengthen the multilateral framework for the fight against corruption. Belgium remains convinced that a multilateral approach is the best guarantee for a sustainable outcome. We also contribute on the ground, in a practical way, to the operational capacities of the most affected countries. Our country participates, among other things, in various capacity-building missions within the framework of its missions. Participating countries shall, inter alia, ensure the strengthening of key national anti-corruption institutions, such as centres for the seizure of goods of criminal origin. The strengthening of judicial and police actors in the countries concerned is crucial to overcoming corruption. The complexity of the fight against corruption requires a multidimensional approach to this issue. Intense coordination between the various anti-corruption instruments — diplomacy, development cooperation, justice and economic interests — ensures that political initiatives are harmonized and mutually reinforcing. In this context, mention should also be made of the Cotonou Agreement between the European Union and the ACP States. The fight against corruption is also part of the overall partnership with these countries. I shall conclude, Madam President, by thanking Mr Flahaux for wanting to fight this scourge with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u40	I thank the minister for his legendary humour. I also note that, in general, the higher the standard of living a state has, the more so its anti-corruption standards. The Scandinavian countries are a good example; some countries in Africa and Latin America or Asia are bad. The level of development there is low and corruption has been one of the morals for thousands of years. Your sensitivity shows that Belgium wants to be a good example as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u41	Minister, I recently asked your colleagues Marghem and Van Overtveldt about the ivory trade. This is, in fact, a problem that I am particularly interested in. I am addressing you today following a new element in this dossier. In mid-March, at a summit in Botswana devoted to the protection of elephants and the fight against their poaching, some 30 African countries once again called on the European Union to close its ivory market. The petition signed by these states believes that the European Union is "the world's largest exporter of legal ivory", with "1,258 defences exported in 2014 and 2015, more than in the previous eight years". As a result, in ten years, nearly 20% of elephants have disappeared. As you can see, the situation is particularly challenging. The European Union has advised its members to limit themselves to the ivory trade already worked and not to trade in raw ivory, which we have been doing since July, but that cannot be enough. Minister, can you take stock of this situation at European level? Is there a global position on this issue? How do you explain that the European Union does not go further in banning the trade in ivory, as is the case in most other countries? Is it possible, in your view, that more than 30 African countries have launched this call to move this issue forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u42	I was wondering if you adopted an elephant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u43	They're making a huge mistake!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u44	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, in recent years elephant poaching has reached very high levels. The European Commission estimates that between 20 000 and 30 000 African elephants have been killed every year since 2011. The Commission also considers that, in parallel with this increase in poaching, the illegal trade in ivory has intensified as a result of increasing demand for ivory, mainly in Asian markets. This situation is particularly challenging and is increasingly worrying to the public. In response to this problem, the EU has already put in place a strong legal framework. For more information, in particular on its application, I would refer you to my colleagues Mrs Marghem and Mr. Van Overtveldt, competent in this field. I also note that several civil society organisations, as well as third countries, continue to call on the European Union to step up its efforts. They called for an end to the domestic trade in ivory, an end to all exports of ivory and support for efforts towards a total ban on the trade in ivory. The petition you are referring to, launched by the online movement Avaaz, has already been signed by more than a million people. At the Giants Club Summit held in Botswana from 15 to 17 March, the presidents of Botswana, Uganda and Gabon also signed the petition. A total of 32 African countries have already subscribed to it. Such signals are not negligible and the European Union must pay the necessary attention to them. The key argument of this demand, that re-exporting ivory from the European Union can increase the demand for illegal ivory in Asia, requires further reflection. I would also refer you to my two colleagues for more information on concrete measures that could be taken. With regard to the European level, I am pleased that the European Commission has taken up this issue and launched a public survey on ivory trade in the European Union between September and December 2017. The results of this survey are being analysed. It seems to me logical that these results should feed into the rest of the debate. I believe that we will have the opportunity, at European level as well as here, to go back to the additional measures to be taken to try to further strengthen the fight against these ivory traffickings, but of course, beyond that, the fight against the ongoing extermination of African elephants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u45	I thank the Minister for his answer. Indeed, if this continues, soon, the only elephants we will see will be those of Pairi Daiza and other animal parks. This is obviously not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u46	Minister, in April 2015, former French President François Hollande undertook to open the archives of the Presidency of the Republic covering the period 1990-1995, in which information on the role played by France during the Rwandan genocide can be found. Nearly three years later, the reality shows that access to the entire archive is still difficult, as the senior official in charge has deemed the contents too sensitive. Our country, too, is concerned with this tragic episode – and I would remind you that Prime Minister Verhofstadt took a very clear position – and I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Are you considering an easy opening and/or access to our public archives covering the Rwandan genocide, and under what conditions? Do you think that such a proof of transparency would encourage a strengthening of our relations with Rwanda? Would such an initiative contribute to the memory work of all the victims of this tragedy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u47	Mr Flahaux, concerning access to the archives relating to the genocide of the Tutsis in Rwanda in 1994, I am of course in favour of the greatest possible transparency. It is quite normal for genocide survivors and Rwandans in general to ask to know the whole truth about this tragedy that is not so far away. Moreover, Belgium has very quickly chosen the option of transparency. I refer you, for example, to the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Rwanda in 1997. It is of course possible for Rwandan researchers to access the Belgian archives on genocide. However, in order to do so, documents should be declassified in accordance with the legal framework. In terms of access to archives, the FPS Archives Department Foreign Affairs is based on the Archives Acts of 1955 and 2009, which provide access to archives over 30 years old. For the most recent, as would be the case here, the Act on Publicity of the Administration of 11 April 1994 makes it possible to derogate from the thirty-year period. It was then the Diplomatic Commission, composed of diplomats and retired officials from the FPS Foreign Affairs, which took the decision to declassify the files after analysing them. I have no doubt that we will soon receive requests for access, as I have seen the interest of several Rwandans in our archives. This work of memory is indispensable, and I wish to contribute to it. We already have an excellent bilateral dialogue with our Rwandan partners. This issue of archives is regularly on the agenda of our discussions. You will have understood that, if requests were to be made, I would like the orientation to be as wide-ranging as possible. There would, of course, need to be specific reasons for refusing declassification. In any case, in such a case, the basic principle would be to make the best possible use of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic870x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer, which fully satisfies me.
