ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the chambers of business in difficulty have an important role to play in monitoring the situation of firms in difficulty and in safeguarding the continuity of their activities. In this context, I have already asked you a question, particularly with regard to the exchange of information when carrying out the tasks of chambers for firms in difficulty. After all, exchange of information with private organisations assisting companies in difficulty, such as the Dyzo association, is important. Earlier this year, I questioned you in particular about Article XX.27 of the Code of Economic Law. In accordance with that Article, the court may, in accordance with the procedure laid down by royal order, exchange the information collected for the exchange of information with the public institutions or private institutions designated or recognised by the competent authority in order to accompany undertakings in difficulty. However, the royal decision to allow this exchange of information was still lacking when I asked you that question. In reply to my question, even before the summer, you replied that the absence of the Royal Decree was due to the lack of a cooperation agreement between the federal state and the various regions, which are responsible for the prevention of bankruptcy. You said that you would consult with the relevant regional ministers in the very short term. Now, Minister, I would like to remind you of these questions and to have a state of affairs. What is the status of the consultation and lack of a cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Regions on this exchange of information? What timing do you provide for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, as you point out, there is so far no royal decree implementing Articles XX.21 (3) and XX.27 of the Code of Economic Law, which allows the exchange of information between chambers for firms in difficulty and certain public bodies, in particular private bodies designated or recognised by the competent authority to accompany firms in difficulty. Since the practical implementation of the supervision of firms in difficulty falls within the competence of the Regions, the provider of such guidance and guidance in itself will be regulated in different ways in each region. Consequently, my policy cell analyses the organisations involved in obtaining this information, how the exchange of information can take place and what safeguards should be entered in the Royal Decree, so that, for example, professional secrecy is not compromised as a result of the sharing of the information in question. In the meantime, my policy cell has contacted the three relevant ministers and asked them to consult on the framework within which this information exchange could take place in the near future. A first consultation took place with the cabinet of Flemish minister Muyters. My cabinet will consult with ministers Gosuin and Jeholet on the royal decision to be taken before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which shows that there is little progress in this matter. I hope, however, that more progress will be made quickly. I therefore encourage you to continue your, hopefully good, contacts in this area with the regions and to develop as soon as possible a system for the exchange of information, which will benefit not only the firms in difficulty but also the institutions concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u4	Questions No 27135 by Mrs Lambrecht, No 27145 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, No 27176 by Mrs Van Cauter and No 27241 by Mrs Onkelinx are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u5	Mr. President, Minister, four families active in the Citizen Platform for Refugee Support were the target of searches on Sunday, October 7 between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m., in Nandrin, Saint-Gilles and Watermael-Boitsfort. While in two cases the search seemed to be aimed only at the migrants who were hosted, in two other cases the women hosting the search themselves were arrested. All of these searches were carried out under a warrant issued to interrogate persons in an irregular situation staying with individuals. These searches were carried out by forcing doors and locks at dawn. Sometimes with the unacceptable use of physical violence. It would appear that the mandate was obtained on the basis of an analysis of the use of telephones and SIM cards that would have been offered by the hosting companies to their hosting companies. While the bill says "home visits" will probably never be voted in the House – which I am pleased to hear – it would seem that the prosecution and the police are relying on the recent law making it impossible for SIM cards to be anonymous in criminalizing the accommodation of migrants in transit. However, the anti-terrorism law was designed to combat the most serious crimes, not to criminalize the initiatives of a citizen movement. Article 77 of the Act of 15 December 1980, known as the Aliens Act, punishes aid for illegal residence, but specifies that it does not apply "if aid is offered for mainly humanitarian reasons". Article 77bis of the same law criminalizes trafficking in human beings, while specifying that this offence is only constituted when it is committed "in order to obtain, directly or indirectly, a property benefit", which you confirmed to me during an exchange in the House this summer. Do you therefore consider these arrests justified? Do you intend to share your astonishment at a forthcoming meeting of the College of Attorneys General? What contacts have you made with your colleagues in charge of the Interior and the Asylum in this regard? Knowing that the hosts concerned were notoriously not human traffickers, what inspires you the possible mobilisation of the law "Anonymity of SIM cards" by the Public Prosecutor's Office to conduct such violent investigations and then searches? Does the public prosecutor's office, in your opinion, make proper and proportionate use of this law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u6	Mr President, Mr Hellings, first of all, I would like to make it clear that this is a judicial inquiry, under the direction of an investigating judge, and under the supervision of other judicial bodies. The public prosecutor in Brussels was able to tell me: "The Federal Judicial Police in Brussels dismantled an alleged gang of Sudanese-born human traffickers, who appeared to be recruiting in Maximilian Park. On the morning of October 7, 2018, some 50 investigators burst into a few addresses, where the alleged traffickers resided. Nine suspects were deprived of their liberty and a tenth person was deprived of his liberty for acts of rebellion against the police. At two addresses, the investigators found two and six illegal residents, respectively. They are probably victims awaiting imminent transport. The persons concerned were handed over to the Aliens Office. The survey focuses on persons suspected of passing other people into the UK in a precarious situation or providing the necessary assistance. This is an investigation into trafficking in human beings in which the investigating judge issued search warrants at several locations where there were suspicions of being able to get hold of human traffickers. The woman who was arrested for acts of rebellion was released after her hearing. Of the nine persons brought before the investigating judge, seven were placed under arrest warrant. These are seven men charged as perpetrators or co-sponsors of trafficking in human beings within the framework of a criminal organization. The other two persons were released by the investigating judge after the hearing. They weren't charged. No further comment may be given while the instruction is under way."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I hear that the seven arrests concern real human traffickers. It's one thing. But still, it is also about women who have been molested. They are indeed hosting women, pursuant to Articles 77 and 77bis, which I mentioned earlier. There was no reason to stop these people, who don't get rich at the expense of the people they house, and who didn't have a better chance of doing so. On the contrary, it costs them. It is extremely challenging to see that these hosts have been apprehended or even arrested. As far as the investigation is concerned, I understand that you cannot speak on an ongoing investigation. That's normal. The independence of justice is a fundamental value. However, the investigation is clearly based on the requirement to give its identity in order to acquire SIM cards of prepaid cards. However, the law on the termination of anonymity of SIM cards was justified in the name of the fight against the most serious crimes and against terrorism. Obviously, this net was thrown around human traffickers. I agree that this is an extremely serious prevention, but not as serious as terrorism. If it turns out that this law, which we have voted for good reasons, so that terrorists cannot work with impunity, is used against less serious crimes or crimes, that would be extremely challenging. We will therefore not hesitate to re-examine you once the investigation has been closed, but a law that has been passed for anti-terrorism reasons should not be used for other purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u8	Question No 27180 by Mrs Carina Van Cauter was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u9	Minister, I would like us to discuss the means available to justice in our country. While our judiciary, in all jurisdictions, continues to denounce the lack of resources available to it by your government, the European Commission for the Effectiveness of Justice (CEPEJ), which reports to the Council of Europe, published on 5 October a comparative study of the state of justice in European countries. In this report, the Commission notes that, in recent years, Belgium has reduced by 8% the budget allocated to the operation of its courts and tribunals, the Public Prosecutor's Office and legal aid. Of the 33 countries analysed, on the basis of the same criteria in this study, which shows everywhere else a continuous increase in the budgets of judicial systems, Belgium would be the country of Europe where their decrease is the largest. You will understand that I am concerned about these findings, at a time when appeals for the help of an exsanguinated judiciary are no longer counted. The state of disrepair of justice in Belgium is now in line with that of its palace in Brussels. Mr Minister, how do you explain that we are the only member of the Council of Europe to have reduced the budget allocated to the judiciary, while our neighbours have increased it? There is also a decrease in the number of professional judges. Should it eventually read a willingness to revise the frameworks - or their equivalents - downwards? In your Justice Plan, you state, on page 23, that "effective savings are possible, insofar as justice can focus on its essential tasks and produce fewer units". In view of the widening gap between the ordinary citizen and the justice system, as well as the significant decrease in the number of cases introduced, particularly in terms of legal aid - without any improvement in terms of social peace - are you still convinced of the relevance of your decisions on this matter? What hopes can we have for the last few months of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u10	Dear colleague Onkelinx, the report you are quoting illustrates the situation in 2016. According to this report, the budget allocated for the operation of courts and tribunals, the Public Prosecutor's Office and legal aid has decreased by 2.8% between 2014 and 2016. The report thus combines two different budgets, the budget for the operation of the Judicial Order and the budget for legal aid for the most deprived litigants. First, with regard to the budget for the operation of the Judicial Order, the report provides an incomplete picture. In the 2016 budget, all the means of operation and investment foreseen for information technology within the Justice FPS were brought together under a common budget line. As a result, unlike 2014, the ICT budget for courts and prosecutors is no longer included in the separate budget division of ordinary courts. In this respect, this amount amounts to €36.5 million for 2014, i.e. 4% of the Judicial Order's budget. Leaving aside this amount, there is a question of an increase in the budget compared to 2014 and not a decrease. Secondly, as far as legal aid is concerned, access to justice as democratic as possible is a top priority. That is why we have considerably increased the actual budgets allocated to the legal aid system during this Parliament. Since 2015, expenditure has increased to 88 million euros in 2017 and 102.9 million euros in 2018, compared to 86.3 million in 2014. So we went from 86 million to 102 million. It is true that the number of legal aid cases has decreased, but a logical explanation can be provided. As a result of the reform, a designation now covers several benefits, while a designation previously covered a benefit. In addition, the budget has been further harmonised with these procedures for pro deo aid. Thanks to better control, in particular, of the applicant's financial situation, abuses have been avoided and the means invested for those who need them most. You know that the budget is not a limiting factor for the number of applications. If a justified request for legal aid is made, it is honoured. Where you quote my Justice Plan from the beginning of the legislature, I remain convinced that we need to continue this exercise of efficiency in order to devote maximum resources to priority projects and objectives. In summary, since 2016, the budget for the Judicial Order and Legal Aid and their operation has continued to increase. The overall budget for 2017 was €943.2 million. After adaptation, the 2018 budget amounts to €958.5 million. For 2019, the proposed initial budget is EUR 1,013 billion. To your question as to whether further steps would be taken during this legislature to improve access to justice for citizens, I would like to refer you to my vision document Court of the Future, which contains the various lines of action and concrete projects aimed at closing this gap tirelessly and giving everyone the opportunity to effectively assert their rights. During this legislature, projects will be implemented on the ground. I think we are all pursuing the same goal of establishing a more effective and accessible justice for everyone. During this legislature, we will have taken important steps to that end and built the foundations for doing more. Nevertheless, the work will never be completed. We can only continue to do our best at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u11	Mr Minister, do not tell me that you justify all the Council of Europe's observations, in particular on the budget and operating costs, solely for computer reasons. That's not possible. This element certainly comes into play, but not on the whole. On the other hand, as far as legal aid is concerned, we know what is happening. You introduced a moderator ticket. There has been a significant decrease in the number of cases, simply because people do not know how to pay those 30 or 50 euros. At one time, we really fought for the justice budget. I remember that I had refused to be Minister of Justice if I did not get 4% increase in pre-negotiations. I knew the situation. Under this government, it was said that spending on regal functions should be reduced, like all public spending. You've been following this movement. Here or there, we're reinvesting. There is a problem of terrorism, we are quickly reinvesting in this small pocket. But overall, you have not financially supported the needs of our system. We will discuss this again during the budget review, which is scheduled for very soon. We will try to see how the issue has evolved since the beginning of the legislature. In any case, I regret the lack of willingness to favour a department that is obviously worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u12	Mr Minister, we have recently learned that after the extension of the Homegrown Terrorist Fighters (ex-FTF) database to the far left and the far right, the database would, this time, be extended to an even more volatile category: "potentially violent extremists" (EPV). Six criteria are established to determine whether they pose a risk: ideology, intent, capacity, social contact, history and mental health. The objective is to give priority attention to individuals for whom there is evidence that they pose an increased risk of violence, in the absence, however, of serious indications that they could act or undertake steps to act. When I heard this news, I thought I was in 1984 from Orwell: Big Brother is with us! Indeed, we are witnessing a witch hunt directed against anyone who thinks a little outside the norm. Minister, how do you justify this extension, at a time when we are forced to find that our services are experiencing difficulties in gathering information about people who are already committing an offence with a view to committing even more serious offences? How do you justify this extension of the database in the light of the principles of legality and predictability of criminal law? How do you justify this extension and reconcile it with privacy? What is the real purpose of this new category? How will it be constituted? Who will have access to it? Who will feed and by what means? Finally, if this new category is created, how can a person who will find himself mistakenly taken back from it be removed from it? The question is obviously not anomalous, since the registration in such a database can disrupt the daily lives of the people registered in it. Mr Minister, the fight against terrorism is of course of crucial importance, but it alone cannot justify the removal of all the beacons that constitute our rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u13	Mrs Onkelinx, in recent months the intelligence, security and police services, as well as the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis, have been working within the framework of the activities of the national working group on local task force, on more effective monitoring and exchange of information, including radicalised detainees, persons convicted of terrorism and radicalised individuals likely to commit violent acts. These various services have recently made a proposal in this context to expand the common data bank and have forwarded this proposal to the Minister of the Interior and myself. We're looking at it. The common data bank has proven to be a tool for monitoring and exchanging information. Of course, including a person in this database is only possible if the person meets strict criteria on the basis of an independent and local assessment. There are also rules to correct material and content errors. It should be recalled that this is only about defining the criteria that make it possible for a person to be monitored and to share specific information between the services. The fact of being included in the data bank does not imply any intrusive action against the person. There is, a fortiori, no criminal measure resulting from the presence in the common data bank. These proposals, whose definitions, criteria and modalities are still to be discussed, confirm that no decision has already been taken. In this regard, as required by the legislation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GRDP) and sections 44/11/3ter of the Police Function Act, the views of the Data Protection Authority, the Police Information Management Control Body and the R Committee should be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u14	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I may ask for a discussion on this matter in Committee R. I think you don't realize what it means to be included in a data bank. You're saying there's not necessarily criminal follow-up when it's the case. But try to get a visa! Try to go for a ride to the United States when you're in a data bank based on criteria that go, if you go in the direction I've described, considerably expand the spectrum! So you're telling me that all this is not yet done, that discussions are still under way. I would like to draw your attention to this point: of course, the security of our country is an essential matter with which there is absolutely no need to compromise! But on the other hand, the other side, no less important, is the protection of individual freedoms and privacy. I therefore ask you to pay your attention before it is too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic979x.u15	This concludes our work this afternoon.
