ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, in February 2018, the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) published an opinion on the future of its secretariat. I would point out that this is not an administrative secretariat; on the contrary, it is collaborators who, under the name of secretariat, analyse and instruct the files so that the bodies of the CSNPH can take an informed position. The importance of this work should therefore not be questioned. The "secretariat" of the Council must remain at the exclusive service of its management bodies and completely independent, in its political functioning, of the administration. This is due to its credibility vis-à-vis the CSNPH's interlocutors. If it becomes an administration, it will be neither the same function nor the same mission in relation to current issues. According to this opinion, the members of this secretariat who have left DG PH or are about to leave it should be replaced by staff of the same level of competence and driven by the same motivation. It is true that all administrations are subject to budgetary difficulties which have consequences in terms of staff. If such administrations welcome administrators who are completely unaware of the subject matter to be dealt with, the quality of the work carried out so that the Council's organs can act will be considerably less. Madam Secretary of State, have you read this opinion of the CSNPH? Do you confirm the statement of the Director of DG PH that the Council Secretariat will remain within the DG, keeping its current independence there? Do you intend to replace those members of the secretariat who have left DG PH or who will leave it shortly to replace them with staff of the same level of competence? Maybe you've already done it. If this is not the case, when will you do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, I have finally been able to read the opinion of the CSNPH on the future of its secretariat. CSNPH is an important advisory body with which my strategic unit is continuously in consultation. I therefore share the concern of the Council. I can confirm that the Council secretariat will remain within DG PH. Its independent position within the latter will be guaranteed, even after the reform of the Social Security SPF and the announced merger of the SPF and the Social Integration SPP. With regard to the replacement of members of the secretariat who have already left DG PH or will do so in the near future, I can tell you that we have found a solution, in cooperation with the Council of State. I would also like to stress that this has required a particularly complex balancing exercise. Indeed, DG PH, which is by definition characterised by high financial outflows, has been particularly affected by the linear economy. This is one of the sources of the operational problems the DG is currently facing. In concrete terms, two out of three secretariat staff members will be replaced upon departure. Subsequently, a current member of the secretariat will be given the function of coordinator. In this context, we are currently analysing the possibility of premiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u3	Madam Secretary of State, your answer is reassuring with regard to independence. We will see in fact whether it is not simply an independence in words but a full, real and complete independence. As far as the replacement is concerned, since the CSNPH has sent you its opinion, have you already informed him of this partial replacement of two out of three members, plus the coordinator with a possible overprime? Do you have an agreement with CSNPH? Are things serene? Does the CSNPH consider that it is in a position to carry out its missions with a reduced secretariat and replaced in time and time? You're telling me that, yes. So I guess that's the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u4	I saw the people involved in the cabinet last week for a meeting. Then we've communicated it to them so much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u5	And is there an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u6	There was an agreement and they were also satisfied, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u7	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I therefore hope that they will be replaced at the time of their departure. That is, in any case, the commitment you are making today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, more than a year ago, I already addressed the problem of parking card abuse. You recorded the problem yourself. You wrote in your policy paper that you wanted to do something to prevent the abuse of parking tickets. You would examine whether it was legally possible to give Community guards the power to establish such offences. You also examined whether the increase in the penalty rate is possible or desirable. In addition, you mentioned that an app would have been developed at the beginning of December 2017 and that a website would be launched in the spring of 2018 to easily determine the validity of parking tickets. I have also asked Minister Jambon questions about the problem, because he is responsible as Minister of the Interior. In his answer to a question I asked him back in 2017, he stated that he was in the process of amending the law and therefore the legislative framework. Since then, however, I have not heard anything about it. Since you are competent for persons with disabilities and are consulting with the minister concerned, I would like to hear from you when we can finally expect the legislative amendment. I assume that the community guards will be able to deal with such violations afterwards. What specific powers for monitoring the use of parking cards will be assigned to the community guards? What is the state of play regarding, on the one hand, the app and, on the other hand, the website? When can we expect the launch or are they already in use? What specific features will the app and the website contain? Who will be able to use the app and website? How will that work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u9	Mrs Lanjri, together with the Minister responsible, Mr Jambon, we are indeed planning to extend the powers of the Community guards so that they can also identify mixed infringements. Some articles of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 should be amended accordingly. The legislative changes were incorporated into the law on various provisions. The interkabinets working group for a second reading of the legislative amendments is scheduled for the next few days. Preparations for the app and web applications have now been completed. The application for authorisation to publish the app in the app stores will be discussed today in the Sectoral Committee of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. The app is primarily intended for police and parking guards, but, if the authorisation is granted by the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, it will also be accessible to citizens. In the app, each user will be able to enter the parking card number or scan the QR code of the parking card. After a few seconds, the app shows whether it is a valid or an invalid parking card. Personal data are obviously not available. The only thing one finds out is whether it is a valid or an invalid parking card. Opening up that information is similar to what is happening with the public database for the status of FPS Mobility and Transport license plates. On the web application the functionality will be limited to entering a number of a parking card and nothing more.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, it has taken a long time, but I am very glad that in the end the bill is ready to give community guards and parking guards the power to act against abuses. The app and the website are still in preparation and you mentioned 2 May. But from when exactly will both be able to be used?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u11	I'm told everything's ready. Today we await the outcome of the sectoral committee of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. As soon as the committee gives the green light, everything will be put into effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u12	So that won't take months?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u13	No, unless we got word from the Sectoral Committee that there would be some changes to be made. I'm assuming that's something for the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u14	Then the app is useful for police and parking guards, but not yet for the citizen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u16	Does the Privacy Commission still have to give her consent to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u17	It is represented on the sectoral committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u18	The approval of the sectoral committee is therefore also an approval of that committee. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u19	I note that many people submit questions, but are not always present when their question needs to be asked. I saw the Secretary of State has a presentation ready. Of the first nine questions, three can be asked: one from Mrs Fonck and two from myself. Those questions can be asked, and I note that you have a power point presentation of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u20	No, the powerpoint presentation simply contains the most recent figures we have received from the administration. I have a very detailed answer. There are, of course, a number of answers to the questions put by Mr Delizée and Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u21	That's no problem at all, Madam Secretary of State. I suggest that Mrs Fonck asks her questions first and that I simply agree. Then you can answer these questions. For Mr Delizée and the others, it is good that they also receive an answer to their questions. Their questions may fall away, but your answer may of course remain as you have prepared. I suggest that you quote the most important data from the PowerPoint presentation and that we get the rest in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u22	Madam President, it is said that the absent are always wrong. It's life! Madam Secretary of State, this is not the first time that we have dealt with this issue together. We have discussed the management of disability cases several times. My point is not to insinuate that people working in DG People with Disabilities are not doing their job. But it is important to remember that people with disabilities sometimes have to wait a very long time for their files to be managed and answered. I'm from the province of Hainaut. I can assure you that we are being reported on a number of concrete cases. In particular, people whose incomes are already particularly low, who hope in a transitional way to be able to rely on the CPAS and to do so carry out a whole series of administrative procedures, introduce applications for allowances, have to wait very long, if only to receive compensatory sums, which themselves take months to reach them. It's not right. It is unworthy of a State like ours that in a number of cases the management of these cases is inadequate. I'm on this side. I'm not on the other side, that is, the administration. I do not know the exact causes of these problems. They can be diverse. Answers to simple questions by e-mail sometimes remain pending. Sometimes there are answers, sometimes not at all. I can measure that on the administrative side, staff are subject to a significant amount of working pressure. We were talking about savings a moment ago. I wonder if, in the end, it is not the savings imposed that are responsible for the situation in which the DG finds itself today. Behind these are not files, they are not figures but people, who are particularly vulnerable because of their disability, because of their socio-economic situation and, for some of them, because of their isolation. The Conseil Supérieur has given you an opinion. I'm not going to read it to you. You know him and everyone can get to know him on the site. He's implacable. He speaks of an objectively disastrous situation and all the more worrying as the calls, reminders, arrests and alerts do not date today. Madam Secretary of State, in addition to the findings, I would like solutions to be found for people with disabilities. In order to do so, I would like to see answers given within a reasonable period of time, mandatory answers within that period, correct answers and not dossiers which remain on the side and more so, when it comes to allowances which are for some the only income. There is a real need for effective management of these files. We know the findings. You know them. They're not from today. The situation is not improving. What are the solutions? How can we respond more effectively to the councils but far beyond, to all the disabled people involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, I join Mrs Fonck's question with two questions on the operation of DG Persons with Disabilities (DG HAN). For the application of a disabled person to be treated by DG HAN, all medical information on that patient should be available. The FPS Social Security will contact the patient's treating physician. If the doctor has provided all the necessary data to the FPS on paper or electronically, the evaluating physician of the FPS shall, on the basis of the documents provided or by means of an examination, verify whether the person with disabilities meets the conditions for eligibility for the requested product, for example, a premium, a benefit or a disability card. The working visit to DG HAN once again showed that a long period of time has elapsed before a person concerned can visit the evaluating doctor for that examination. This is partly because medical evaluations to be eligible for assistance to the elderly are also carried out by the FPS Social Security Office, although this matter is actually regionalised. The time limits for research also vary from region to region. The figures show that an applicant must wait 12 months in some regions before he or she can visit for an examination. That means waiting a year for the investigation, but it does not mean that the person concerned will be asked to do so. In other regions, for example in East or West Flanders, the waiting period is four months. In the province of Antwerp the waiting period is nine months. The differences between the regions are therefore large. At DG HAN, staff exchanges are already taking place between regional teams if the delays in one regional team are greater than in the other. That is good, but apparently not enough, otherwise the figures you submit would be better or more uniform. Madam Secretary of State, during the work visit I made some proposals, which I hope you have been able to think about. My proposal, which I made at the time of the work visit and which I would like to repeat now, is whether it is possible for persons with disabilities, if they naturally agree and wish to do so, to be allowed to undergo a medical examination by an evaluating doctor in a region other than the region from which they come, if this can shorten the waiting period. For example, people from Antwerp or Brussels might as well go to East Flanders to have a study conducted there. I believe that people should be given the opportunity. If the waiting times are too large, one should be able to offer himself to another team. One has to make the move, but I think that people with disabilities would rather spend an hour in the car or on the train to go to another doctor in another region than have to wait a year to see a doctor in their own region. Would you like to make that possible? I hope so. What other measures will be taken to eliminate these regional differences in treatment periods? I shall then come to a second question. As part of our work visit on 6 March, some future actions were proposed to optimise the operation of DG HAN. In the course of the first and second quarters of this year, more efficient core processes would be developed with more efficient staffing and a more uniform approach. I would therefore have liked to ask you the following questions. What concrete measures have already been taken to improve the effectiveness of DG HAN? What are the initial results regarding the period of processing of the files? What about telephone and digital accessibility? If possible, I would have liked to receive the figures for the months of January to March 2018. I have not yet looked, Madam Secretary of State, whether you have included those figures in your powerpoint presentation. I'll check this out later. What measures will be taken to improve efficiency? When will these be rolled out? I share Mrs Fonck's concern that it is very important for the weakest target group, namely people with disabilities, to ensure that our services are accessible. We must ensure that they are given what they are entitled to. They should not only be given what they are entitled to, but this should also be dealt with within a reasonable period of time. Any yes may not come a year after an application. If one can only undergo a medical examination after a year, then everything is delayed and precious time is wasted. I think you agree with that and that you will have to make much more efforts to resolve the problems in the disability DG. The visit was very interesting, but that has not solved the problem. People expect solutions from politicians in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u24	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Fonck, first of all let me say that I agree with the analysis. I am now responsible for DG HAN for about a year and two months. I have forwarded the figures to you and I have to say that despite all the measures taken last year, the result is not what it should be. I mean the good service that every citizen has the right to, but especially the disabled. This morning I heard another poignant story. I note in the Federal Ombudsman's report that 580 complaints have been received: that is quite a lot! The number of complaints to DG HAN in 2017 was 448. Then there are the e-mails that you arrive at the cabinet or the representatives of the people. Add that to that. I have talked to the Disabled Council about their advice, which I largely agree with. That too has not been touched, but I want to be very transparent about this with Parliament. The trade unions filed a strike notice a few months ago. In a number of their demands, I found myself largely or completely reflected. We consult with them on what they asked for, for example the extended employment for the 38 additional recruited people, security until 2019, promoting A2 to A3 and, more importantly, evaluating and questioning the current organisational structure and the model used. Finally, the creation of a call centre. These are four very specific issues that were asked by the trade unions. I will come back to that later, but as I said, I was largely in agreement with that. I now turn specifically to your questions. As far as the operation of DG HAN is concerned, you all know that the major crisis was caused by the introduction of Curam, the computer system that was not really adapted and up-to-date, which caused a lot of problems. It entered into force on 1 January 2017. There were also insufficient recruitment. What did I do in that year? First of all, I would like to say that we will have to do more, otherwise we will not get there. In that year we took back to Tetra. We have extended that system to 2021, which involves an investment of EUR 4.5 million over those four years. Curam's being investigated right now. We will have an audit at the end of June. In addition to returning to Tetra, and its extension, we have recruited 38 staff. In the meantime, they have gone through a training pathway. In September 2017, it was completed, but that does not prove sufficient. That's why I want to go over the latest figures with you guys. The telephone accessibility did increase from 40 % in October to 67 % in February 2018, but in April 2018 the figure fell to 52 %. One explanation for this is that DG HAN recently made the decision, without our knowledge, to increase the number of available telephone lines from 40 to 50. However, the number of employees available to answer the phones was not increased. As a result, people do get into DG HAN, but there is not enough staff. There are more phone lines, from 40 to 50, but if there are no people to control those extra phone lines then that has no effect and the callers get frustrated. The delay in the file is still considerable, if you ask me. In the case of the files IVT and.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In April 2018, there were still 7 924 files. In October 2017, we had 8 598 files. That's a slight drop, but I don't think that's enough. Same story for the treatment period. This fluctuates between seven and eight months for the files-IVT and -IT. In April 2018, the average treatment period was 7.7 months for the first applications and review applications, compared to 6.93 months in October 2017. I think that's even going backwards instead of forwards. There are also major regional differences. This does not mean that one works harder in one place than another. This is the result of the organizational structure, which the trade unions have also mentioned. There was the decision of the management to allow all staff to choose a working region themselves. The management applied that decision in a motivational HR policy, but did not take into account a balanced distribution of expertise across the regions when implementing it. In addition, the management also does not provide a comprehensive working framework and support for the regional base teams. All these elements together have led to differences in the regional approach and consequently to different regional treatment periods. The difference between the waiting period in East and West Flanders, where it is four months, and the waiting period in Brussels, Hainaut, Antwerp or Limburg, where it is nine to twelve months, is very large. A year ago, I made additional human resources available. I've given time, too. I am not the manager in the end, but I could provide more staff and additional resources for the Tetra software application. Mrs Lanjri, you suggested sending files to a region with a shorter waiting period. For telephone applications, we have been applying this proposal since January. For the doctors, we've been using it for three weeks. However, I do not think that we will be able to make it through this proposal alone. We can talk about a small stabilisation, but if we really want the treatment period to be reduced and the delay in the files to be eliminated, then I think we will have to step up a little bit, or even a lot of teeth. During the past year, the advisers have been very intensive in this context on the path of constructive consultation. For example, weekly consultations are held between DG HAN's Executive Board and the Cabinet. My employees have also screened all processes and tasks. However, we are bumping into a wall. That is why I believe that a different approach is required. To be honest, I can't explain it anymore. An additional fact is that DG HAN has been regionalised, as you know. Since 1 January 2016, 98 staff have been transferred to Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders. The regions needed time for this reform. After all, they were not ready to take over the THAB files. At present, DG HAN still provides the full THAB service for Brussels and Wallonia, although this is regionalised matter. However, the staff has already been transferred to the Länder, so we no longer have those staff. However, the THAB files are still being dealt with at the federal level. From 1 January 2016, everything has been transferred, including the staff. For Flanders we still do the medical research, although that is also regionalized. Of course, we can keep doing that, but at some point we can't do that anymore. Ninety-eight people have been transferred. If we keep doing those files with the people we have, we'll end up in a bottleneck. It is quite clear to me that the problems in DG HAN were not only caused by the aftermath of the IT problems. That's a problem. There is also the problem of state reform and the 98 staff who are gone, while we are still doing the service and actually everything. That's a second cause. I understand DG HAN. They say it's hard for them to abandon those people. So they keep doing that. Yeah, I get that. A third reason is the organizational structure which is not efficient enough to ensure the necessary services. That is why I have chosen the path of constructive dialogue that we have followed over the past year. We have very often raised the points of pain, weekly, which today have led to too few effective and efficient actions. Not only the patience of the unions, but also that of the Disability Council, of yours and of mine, is running out. The basic pain points need to be addressed. Therefore, in May, tomorrow and other days, I plan consultations with the management of the Social Security Office, the management of DG HAN and the three trade unions present. My intention is that these talks should lead to an effective and concrete action plan, not just a measure, but a global and efficient action plan with clear targets, performance indicators and timing. I will, of course, provide the members of the committee with this action plan and will inform them about the progress of this plan. It must be clear that if the willingness and openness are not sufficiently present or if the results are not forthcoming, I will not hesitate to take decisive action. With regard to the questions on the staff of DG HAN of Mrs Jiroflée, who is present here in the meantime, I will make the necessary proposals for the maintenance of the 38 additional people in the context of the 2019 budget. That's also a question from the union. I'm assuming this will work out for 2019. In any case, I will formally submit this question to the budget. The further staffing needs of DG HAN are analysed, taking into account the ordinary budget available for the staff envelope of the Social Security Office for 2018. The main priority at present is the recruitment of additional statutory doctors. I believe this is necessary. At present we have 24 statutory doctors and a small 130 designated doctors, but the latter do not work full-time. Further priorities are legal support and also a telephone process operator. In addition, the statutory doctors currently in A2 will be promoted gradually, within the envelopes available, in A3. To eliminate the inequalities between doctors. This too was a point of the trade unions. Finally, I would like to stress that the employees of DG HAN, who are working very hard in spite of the difficult working conditions and the great political and social pressure of the past year, have continued to work. Thank you for that. Without their commitment, we would have had even greater problems. As I have already said, I believe that we will not be able to do so only with last year's measures. We're gonna have to move on. I'm really openly questioning the organizational model. I dare say this after the two cabinet advisers have been working for months to get a complete picture of where regional differences are coming from and how certain dossiers are not being finalised. You know that the new organisational model entered into force on 1 April 2016, i.e. a year ago. I can see that from the peaks in the number of complaints that came in. This was also a question from the trade unions. The strike commitment was aimed at ensuring that additional staff would certainly be provided and that the doctors would be promoted. The organizational structure was also questioned by the trade unions. We made the exercise in the cabinet. So it is that I, too, openly question the organisation. But of course, I'm not a manager. I'm not a Director General. I can see problems, I can say that we want to draw up an action plan with concrete measures. It is not a problem to ask for more money for this. I would like to give that, but first I would like to have specific action points in order to be able to go to the Council of Ministers and ask for the necessary resources. DG PH is having difficulty recruiting new doctors, which is a problem. The increase in the attractiveness of the medical-advisory profession and the change in the status and function are discussed in a committee of the National College of Medicine of Social Insurance on the issue of incapacity for work. The federal public services concerned, as well as the main players in the occupational group, are involved in this reflection. The commission is still only at the beginning of its mission. We will certainly not know its first recommendations before the end of 2018. In the meantime, DG PH is already taking steps to address the consequences of the lack of medical consultants. She hired four additional medical assistants last year. In this way, physicians receive support in the management of medical records and in the preparation of medical assessments, allowing them to focus as much as possible on medical checks. In relation to the impact of delays on the social tariff concessions for gas and electricity, I can confirm that the delays have an effective and unacceptable impact on the citizens with disabilities. I therefore fully endorse the recommendation in the Ombudsman's annual report that the social tariff for gas should be granted retroactively from the date on which the person concerned is entitled to a concession. But the final decision on the access rules to the social tariff is not with me but with my colleague responsible for Economics. I am therefore planning a further consultation with the Peeters' Cabinet in the near future to discuss this matter further. Then I come to the question of possible recovery of undue amounts. First of all, I would like to say that this is a very complex matter. The administration tells me that the review decision will start at the date on which the situation changed, i.e. with retroactive effect. This rule applies the principle of legal equality. This principle requires equal conditions of fact to be governed by equal rules of law, irrespective of the time when the administrative decision is taken. I think this was a question from Mrs Jiroflée. In order to ensure this legal equality for all concerned, I do not therefore consider it appropriate to amend the legislative amendment. However, I would like to take a fair approach with specific attention to precarious situations. Specific rules shall apply to beneficiaries of benefits who take up temporary or part-time employment. In some situations, the concession of a beneficiary may be temporarily reduced or even discontinued. A cessation not only leads to a loss of the concession but also to a loss of social and fiscal measures, such as the cost-effective gas and electricity tariff. Indeed, these rules and their impact are not always clear to the entitled parties and can therefore also constitute a threshold for a temporary resumption of work. In order to better inform the beneficiary concerned, an informative brochure has already been drawn up in this context. In addition, my policy cell is currently examining the legal possibilities to reduce these thresholds. With regard to the exchange of information with the Regions and the automatic granting of rights, DG PH already exchanges information spontaneously and automatically with virtually all federal and regional institutions which grant rights to persons with disabilities recognised by the Social Security FPS. As part of the "Harmonised Social Status" project, DG PH collaborates with the Bank for Social Security, before extending the scope of its exchanges to the local authorities. I now turn to the possible development of a system of automatic granting of rights. I do not intend to automate the recognition of disability. Such recognition must continue to depend on an express request made by the citizen on the basis of a free choice. Not all persons concerned wish to be recognised as persons with disabilities. In line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we are guided by the principles of autonomy and self-determination. Every citizen must retain the right to make this personal decision. Secondly, a feasibility investigation is necessary to determine whether the legal conditions are met for recognition. We need more and more staff to make people aware of their rights. The Law of 11 April 1995 establishing the Charter of Social Security requires, in particular, all institutions of social security, including DG HAN, to provide on their own initiative any additional information necessary for the examination of the application for rights or the enforcement of rights. In this context, changes to existing procedures are being considered with a view to proactively informing the beneficiaries concerned of their rights. This will result in automatic review of cases where the development of a situation can positively influence the rights of the person concerned. Finally, as my various answers show, there is a great deal of work on the table to ensure a smooth and high-quality service for the disabled. The coming weeks and months will therefore be crucial in order to find a structural solution in this area. Of course, I will inform the committee about the progress of these actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u25	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, this is a complete failure on two fronts. First of all with regard to the dossiers and the persons concerned, i.e. persons with disabilities. In my view, the responsibility for quality service lies with the state, and therefore with the federal government. This high-quality service, which the federal state has jurisdiction over, is currently not delivered. I find it unworthy and unacceptable! You quoted the numbers. I should like to recall that, for the people concerned, these figures are averages. Which says average means Gauss distribution law. This certainly means that some benefit from shorter deadlines. But if the average is 12 months, you can be sure that for others, the deadline is at least 18 to 24 months, and I weigh my words. This is totally unacceptable! There's a second record of failure when I hear you. While this government has been in place for four years, you are only now imagining an action plan. Excuse me, but it requires crisis management! You've been in this position for four years. You've been here for a year and two months, as you said earlier. But your colleague N-VA was in the position before you. And you're just thinking that you should write an action plan. Frankly, I think it's an incredible admission of disability...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u27	Wait! I listened to you for 20 minutes without saying anything. It was very long, for an answer to two questions. Now, respect the Rules of the House and listen, as we listened to you earlier. Madam Minister, I would like to tell you that you must wake up. You're not a manager, but your responsibility here is fully committed. I weigh my words. I'm astonished to hear a member of the government say, "I'm going to consider an action plan." It's unbelievable! What should we wait for? You're waiting until now. There's still nothing more than, "I'm going to consider an action plan." You have recalled many observations. Your answer was complete on the findings. But as regards the content of the action plan:niks! I didn't hear anything and I really have a problem with that. I remember proposing penalties. Indeed, penalties could be provided for undelivered service. We often attack the private sector. I note, for my part, that at the level of a service which must be carried out by the public sector, one lies below the minimum one is entitled to expect. In doing so, financial penalties should be provided for in the Head of State in case of delay. Finally, you repeated three, four, five or even six times...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u28	Madame Fonck, me permettez-vous d'intervenir?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u29	Allow me to conclude my speech, Madam Secretary of State. Mrs Demir, you have mentioned on several occasions the fact that it is the reform of the state that is responsible for this situation and that 98 people have joined the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u31	Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Fonck has the floor. You may replicate, although that is not the custom, but let Mrs. Fonck explain her first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u32	In the powers that are those of the federal state and, therefore, yours, you obviously have to be able to manage. The insistence with which you referred to the sixth reform of the State seems to me unhealthy. Do you manage faithfully or does it help you that it doesn't work? This would then allow you to justify regionalisation. After hearing you and since it is not today that you are being questioned that a solid plan of action should have been put in place for these disabled people, who are among the most vulnerable in our society (with sick people), this dossier should be able to be debated for a state of affairs every month. I ask that the figures be sent to us, in committee, every month, that the action plan, which is not yet on paper, be submitted to us as a matter of urgency; it should have been done yesterday and even the day before yesterday. I can no longer answer those who ask me that there have been delays, computer problems and so on. It's too easy. I was a minister. I know what it is. When you're a minister, you assume it's easy or not. Your responsibility is engaged. If the files were on paper, such things could happen. The administration can also encounter difficulties, there may still be imponderables, but if at every new inquiry we are told that nothing is moving – because you still dare not call the finding into question – it is no longer possible! I no longer tell people with disabilities that these are acceptable things. Nor do I tell them that this will be settled within a reasonable period of time. It is now the responsibility of the entire government, including the Prime Minister. You really need to move on to another management, including another management of your skills as Secretary of State! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u33	I agree with Mrs Fonck's analysis. I, too, want a solution. I've found a catastrophe. I did not order Curam at the time, nor did I spend EUR 11 million on it: those were my predecessors. One applies the program and it doesn't work. You say I haven't done anything for the past year. Excuse me, we've cleared with the government the resources to deploy Tetra again until 2021. I could have decided until 2019 and left it to the successor to decide what would have to happen. We've recruited additional personnel. People complain that the organisational model I introduced a year ago is not working. We must give at least a year's time to this model, which has been run with the best of intentions. After a year, I find it doesn't work, and that's why I'm consulting. Mrs Fonck, I will take note of your comment and I will talk to Wallonia and Brussels to tell them that we will no longer be dealing with the THAB files. You say that it is not only a problem of regionalisation, but that has partly to do with it. The staff is transferred to the Länder, but our officials carry out the work for these powers day in, day out. Then there will be a problem in the long run. I note that, Mrs Fonck, and, following your criticism tomorrow, I will send the message to the regions that it has been enough, that they must take over the powers, as they already have the staff and deal with the THAB files of their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u34	I'd like to replicate for a while. People with disabilities do not have much use for bickering politicians; it has to improve in particular on the ground. We all agree, and you also said it: we cannot be satisfied with the figures we have before us. We can't, because we don't see much positive evolution there. Of course, you are not the CEO or the manager, but you are the competent Secretary of State who can and must direct the case. Unfortunately, we have to establish that there are a number of causes. The switch to Curam and back to the old Tetra system certainly has some to do with it. When you took up the position of Secretary of State, about a year and three months ago, it was already clear that Curam wasn't working. You also decided to switch back to the old system. Should it be more than a year before we see results? I believe that it could also be adjusted in time, and the route route, if you see that the programme is not satisfactory. After all, you get the figures every month. In this sense, it is perhaps a pity to note that last year's package of measures appears to be insufficient. There will now be another action plan. However, this should be followed closely. The waiting period for the research is now one year in some provinces. Before the person concerned obtains the application, it may expire for a total of two years, while the person concerned is simply entitled to it. We can't afford that, can we? We must give what they are entitled to. It's about the most vulnerable people. We should not make a game of this between majority and opposition. We need to ensure a close follow-up. Mrs Fonck, I don't think anyone would mind putting the issue on the agenda every month. This can be done on a monthly basis through oral questions, although I note today that not all the questioners can be present in good time. There are only three Members present today, or we ask the chairman of the committee to raise the matter on a monthly basis, so that it can be dealt with in a different way than with oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u35	Mrs Jiroflée, allow me to say the following as chairman of the committee. At the beginning of this sitting we waited 15 minutes to see if there would be any more members. We have already dealt with the other oral questions on the agenda, so that you and other colleagues had the opportunity to come. In the end, we started questions under item 1 half an hour after the beginning of the committee meeting. In principle, the questions of the absentees lapse. I did ask the Secretary of State to answer all questions according to her prepared answer. So you will be able to read in the report that your questions have also been answered. In principle, I can't, but I'm going to allow you a reply. Then I shall also give the floor to Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u36	Madam President, first of all, I apologize for being rather late, but I cannot be in two committee meetings at once. So I did try to be here in good time. It has nothing to do with a lack of attention to matter. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the figures we have received on paper. I have heard you say that you are considering structural changes. In addition, I would like to make a plea for the whole automatic allocation of rights to be included immediately, if structural changes are to be made to the system. During our visit I was shocked because in that FOD there is only work with what the applicant explicitly asks. I wanted to ask whether there were automatic or spontaneous referrals, but I was afraid to do so when I heard that even at the federal level, the treatment of an application is limited to what the citizen explicitly asks. I have also heard you tell me about the recovery of the amounts, if a measure starts later than the decision to do so. There are legal arguments to keep it that way, but I think we should let it be fair. You said yourself during the visit that you would deal with it fairly when such a dossier ends up on your table. I think so, but I think that we should be able to find a way between legal considerations and fairness in the normal handling of the dossiers. It's not normal for those files to end up on your lap every time. We must ensure that fairness is included in the general, regular treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u37	Madam Secretary of State, referring this back to your predecessors is a terrible confession of weakness on your part! Your party has been in the government with this portfolio for four years. My faith, when we've been here for a year in a government, still passes. Four years later, having to go back to history to justify what is happening today is pretty amazing. So I will not go back to just one word of what I said earlier. Madam President, if we have a debate every month, as we have been in circles for a number of years now, we risk continuing to go in circles. If my information is correct, statements are made every month. Perhaps not the first of the month, but there is in any case a statement of the deadlines for each month. Can I therefore suggest that we be sent to the committee the statement of the previous month of the average overall deadlines and the deadlines by Region? Then we would like to get to know your action plan quickly, as soon as it is drafted. We could then, through questions, discuss the action plan that you will put in place. I feel like this is the best solution. This will not prevent us, depending on the information we have, from asking additional questions. As a first step, we would begin this way. I hope, however, that we will have an action plan before the end of June, but I do not know if a deadline is set.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u38	Mrs Fonck, with regard to the action plan, you and everyone are free to return to it at some point, for example next month. You also asked for the numbers to be automatically forwarded monthly. A written question may be submitted for figures, which is the normal procedure. Madam Secretary of State, if you would be so kind as to make the figures available at regular intervals, we are happy to receive them. The data may be transferred to the committee secretary, who in turn will forward it to the committee members. This avoids an influx of questions about figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u39	Madam President, I would certainly like to do that. I think I've always been very transparent and very open in everything, even if it doesn't go well. I have no problem delivering the figures to the committee secretariat, which they will then deliver to the committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic886x.u40	Thanks for that.
