ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u1	Mr Laaouej asked whether he could ask his question No 26531 at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u2	Mr President, contrary to Mr Gilkinet's assertion, it was not to fly to St Petersburg that I asked to ask my question now. I don't accept this kind of accusation. Having said that, I thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you are aware of the reform of the Régie des Bâtiments undertaken by your colleague Minister Jambon. Beyond the reform itself which concerns us and which we are following very closely - I am thinking in particular of my esteemed colleague, Mr Delannois - I would like to ask you about some of the tax aspects of this recast. For the time being, the services provided by the Régie are provided by means of an allocation paid to it. If the Régie were to become a public limited company, the services provided could be billed to users. What about the VAT treatment of these services? For material services (maintenance, carpentry, electricity), would VAT not be due? With regard to the rental of real estate itself (currently exempt from VAT), what will be the consequence of the application of what was decided at the Council of Ministers on 30 March 2018? Will this additional VAT not entail a significant additional cost? On the other hand, what about the corporate tax aspects? Will the new reform result in the public limited liability company being subject to corporate tax, which will replace the Régie?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Régie des Bâtiments is a public institution covered by Article 6 of the VAT Code which establishes a non-taxable regime with certain exceptions, in particular with regard to real estate leasing operations and the constitutions, assignments and surrenders of real rights relating to immovable property by nature covered by the exception provided for in Article 44, § 3.1B. In accordance with Article 93bis of the Code concerning professional secrecy, neither my administration nor myself can enter into the details on the current tax status of the Régie I refer you to the VAT Circular No 42/2015 concerning the VAT liability of bodies governed by public law. If the change in legal form to a public limited liability company would lead to more transactions subject to the tax, the related VAT will be borne by the final consumer. In return, this would result in an additional deduction right for the new entity that will be subject to VAT. With regard to the future optional VAT-submission scheme for certain business real estate rentals, it should be noted in particular that it will cover only future and therefore non-current real estate projects. In principle, it will not apply to public authorities. In these circumstances, it is not likely that this future regime would entail additional costs to the public authorities. In any event, it is for the time being too early to comment on the impact of the Régie's activities. It goes without saying that my administration remains available to answer any questions that may exist in the head of the Régie and his successor. The question of corporate tax liability is also premature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u4	Mr President, I am absolutely not satisfied with the answers that have just been given to me. Minister Jambon made a number of very specific statements indicating that he wished to move forward on the transformation of the legal status of the Régie des Bâtiments to a public limited company. We're not under assumptions. We are in a political project that is under way. I hope that the Minister of Finance and his cabinet are involved in the discussions that currently exist within the government. If this is not the case, it may be time to remedy it. Clearly, it is now a question of whether the VAT liability of the public limited liability company to replace the Régie will generate or not invoicing with VAT. It is a matter of making it clear that, for the tenants of the Régie, there is not going to be an additional VAT rate to bear. The Minister gave an indication that, in principle, it is final consumers who support VAT. But if at the same time these end consumers are entities that do not deduct VAT, it is an irretrievable and definitive cost. I am not looking at the current tax status of the Régie. Minister, you're talking about professional secrecy. That's not the point. What will happen in the future? Is not what we are presented with as a major reform really going to entail an additional budgetary cost for the entities using the services of the present Régie, or even for this Régie itself? Another point is corporate tax liability. I regret, but again, this is not an ethereal project. It's a concrete project. My question is, therefore, the following. If the Régie becomes a public limited company, will there be, yes or no, an additional tax cost to corporate tax? Mr. Minister tells me it's premature. I wonder if the minister is well aware of the evolution of the issue within the government. I am absolutely not satisfied, and it is imperative that the minister come back with more precise answers within a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u5	Mr President, Minister, on your proposal the Council of Ministers adopted a draft royal decision on the scope of the attack system applicable to legal constructions. The press release following the Council of Ministers states that, as regards companies established in a Member State of the EEA, the Cayman tax will not apply once the income in that Member State is actually subject to income tax. I would like to hear from you in concrete terms what this results in a particular possibility. If a company would be subject to a real rate of 2% or 3% in the country where it is established, does that mean that the caiman tax does not effectively apply to the income of that company?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u6	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, this question concerns a draft royal decree which seeks to extend the scope of the European Economic Area, the EEA. It was passed on to the Council of State for advice. Within the EEA, the scope of the browsing tax was more limited from the outset in order to avoid a breach of European fundamental freedoms. In addition to a generally defined category of hybrid entities and of certain institutions held by affiliated persons, the current Royal Decree regulating the scope of the viewing tax within the EEA explicitly lists four legal forms which are deemed not to be subject to income tax. The new design replaces these four legal forms with a general definition. This makes the design more widely applicable. From now on, not only the four explicitly mentioned legal forms will be subject to the tax system, but all other legal entities which are not effectively or hardly subject to income tax will also be included in the scope of application. Moreover, the other categories of the Royal Decree are adapted as regards the constructions not covered by the above definition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u7	Mr Minister, your explanation indeed concerns the draft royal decree but, of course, does not answer my question. From the fact that you are not answering my question, I can only conclude that my question is answered in the affirmative. Companies or by extension legal persons who pay hardly any tax elsewhere therefore do not pay any tax here either. The expansion of the Cayman tax, as it is sold here, in practice means that companies that pay hardly any taxes pay hardly any tax in Belgium. I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u8	Question No 26300 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I will return to my question of March 2018. You told me at the time that you were unable to answer my question because it required some research. That is why, four months later, I ask again the question of the number of full-time equivalents in the BBI on 31 December of the last four years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u10	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, I have an answer with a number of tables, which I will not read out, but I will give some verbal explanations. The number of recruitments by the BBI was 93 officials in 2015, 20 officials in 2016 and 13 officials in 2017. These are new recruitments that do not concern internal shifts or internal mobility. The increase in the number of effectives in the BBI is due to the government's decisions. In the case of unchanged policies, indeed, there would have been a sharp contraction, but I asked my colleagues to strengthen the BBI with people and resources. The recruitment of 100 officials, as envisaged by the government, has therefore also been achieved effectively. I am very pleased with that. In addition, a relatively recent decision was made to replace the control functions within the FPS one by one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u11	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I'll take the figures and see if any of this has actually meant a reinforcement of the BBI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u12	Point 5 will be discussed later, since Mr Flahaux is still at another committee meeting and Mr Deseyn has been excused. As soon as Mr Flahaux is finished in the other committee, he will be asking his question No. 26360 come to couples.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I asked this question once, both orally and in writing, but the answer was not available. That is why I now take the opportunity to ask the question again and more clearly following a cross-party open letter calling for the unique art collection of Belfius to be anchored in Belgian hands, which will also be the bank's future. I assume that you have also read the document in question, all the more so because your party colleague and art historian, Mr Swinnen, was one of the co-signators, together with the directors of the Flemish museums. Besides, we have now received the signal that many directors of federal museums also support the call. We have not expressed our opinion on this or that option for the future of Belfius. In fact, the majority still does not know how and when they would go to the stock market. Following the political agenda of the majority, there is a call, as de facto owner of the collection, to ensure that the art collection is protected from a possible sale and can therefore remain in Belgian hands and in Belgium. What are the government's concrete plans for the art collection of Belfius in the event of partial privatisation, and separately? What is the government's view of the future of that national heritage, of which several are listed in the Flemish Community's art decree? It concerns more than 4,000 pieces that offer a steel map of Belgian art from the founding of our country to the present day. Based on the philosophy of Belgian art in Belgian hands, three banks have built up this collection over the years. What is the estimated value of the collection? Many questions have already been asked about it, but it concerns a large number of works of art, including works by great masters. Hence my question about its value. Who estimated it? When's the latest estimate date?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u14	I will not repeat everything that Mr Almaci has already said; I share her concerns. The collection is very spacious. What would happen to it if Belfius went public? In a first phase it may be a partial IPO, but it can't hurt to look ahead. Is the art collection still being developed or is it rather a standstill collection? What is the share of national artists in the collection? Is there a difference between Belgian and non-Belgian artists? Have agreements already been made or will the fate of the collection be made when the government would no longer be a majority shareholder?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u15	Of course, I have also read with attention the piece of opinion that appeared a few weeks ago. Despite the fact that the art collection is owned by Belfius and only indirectly by the Belgian government, I can assure you that Belfius, the government and myself have clearly noted the concerns not only of the authors of the document but also of various other interested parties and will take into account further considerations and policy considerations. The Belfius Art Collection comprises 4 300 works of which some 500 works have museum value. The collection is actively managed through loans, with an ever-changing selection of more than one hundred museum pieces derived from museums or art-oriented projects. In addition, an ever-changing selection of works is made public through the exhibition in the buildings of Belfius. The art collection is part of the assets of the Belfius bank and is therefore on the institution's balance sheet for an amount of 18 million euros. The general belief is that the market value is much higher. The most widely mentioned amount is around EUR 150 million. However, this value is difficult to estimate and is certainly subject to fluctuations. The collection is largely composed of works by Belgian artists. There are also a limited number of works by foreign artists. The intention is to dispose of these works, as the opportunity arises, and then to reinvest the funds acquired in works of art by their own young artists. There is therefore an active purchasing policy, but with a closed money bracket. In the event of a partial exhibition of Belfius, special attention will be given to the fate of the art collection with a view to a solution that also preserves the interests of our cultural heritage. At least it is foreseen that the rights of the Belgian State will not be weakened with regard to the art collection if the State becomes a minority shareholder. From the beginning of the discussions on the partial IPO it was clearly agreed that as long as the State retains a 5% stake, it has the decisive vote on the fate of the art collection. In view of the fact that the technical discussions on all aspects of the IPO and therefore its consequences for the art collection are still ongoing, it is not possible at the moment and, moreover, too premature to explicitly put matters first. In any case, these concerns are guarded every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u16	Mr Minister, I do not really know what to think of it. I lived on hope, because the call was so clearly widely supported. I have a very cautious positive response, but it will not surprise you that, in my opinion, that is too cautious. First of all, I do not agree with the statement that we have an indirect interest in the art collection. That is where our views differ. In 2011, to avoid worse, we became the owner of Belfius by our rescue from Dexia. When you now say that we are indirect owners, you actually minimize the role you can play. It is therefore a question of whether there is the political will to play the full role in relation to the bank. You say very clearly that you do not want that. That's the first sentence you started. The bank is not indirectly owned by the Belgian government, it is 100% owned by the Belgian government and the collection is therefore also owned by the Belgian government. With that unique opportunity, I expected you to answer today that under no circumstances will you give away the art collection and close every door to it. As far as I am concerned, this is not a question of negotiation, but of choice and political will. The Belgian collection of sequestered from the bank can already be done perfectly, before you enter into further negotiations. With your statement that you are looking for a solution to the cultural heritage, if the Belgian government might become a minority shareholder, you may have said a little more than you wanted about the plans you have with Belfius. At least I hope it never comes to that. To say that it is now too premature and that we should have the debate when Belfius goes to the stock market is incorrect, given the cultural historical importance of the collection, of which we own 100 percent. This is not only a statement from myself, but also from Minister of State Mark Eyskens, Bert Anciaux, Johan Swinnen, Jean-Jacques De Gucht, colleague Georges Gilkinet and all the directors of the Flemish museums. We own 100 percent. You can write history on the Committee today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u17	Do you really not know the distinction between a company with its assets and liabilities and naked property?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u18	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u19	Mrs. Almaci, you're really raving around here right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u20	You are minimising your role as minister, and you do so on several occasions in the relevant dossier. I would therefore ask you to look very actively for a solution to this unique collection with a huge cultural and historical importance, and not to let you play it down in a way that I find too cautious. Play your part, seize the opportunity you have, Minister. Don't be so careful. You are right that the market value is much higher, which is why I have also estimated the demand. I have the impression that there is no recent estimate, otherwise you could give more precise figures. You weren't very clear about that, but for our country, that collection is invaluable. This is also evident from the value we give to it in our Flemish art decree; this is evident from the fact that the collection is now being opened one Saturday to three under pressure from public opinion, which is far too little. We now have a unique opportunity. Please don't let that one go. I decide. My appeal to you, Minister, is to abandon your caution. Take advantage of the full weight you have, strengthened by public opinion, cross-party, to play your role as minister, with more aplomb than I see at present. After all, you have made me more concerned than reassured me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u21	Mr President, do I have a minute to reply, like my colleague? However, I will not need it, because Mrs Almaci has heard of everything that has not been said. She does give her insight into the functioning of the economy. She says we should just dispose of the bank's assets. We own the bank, and so we should just take something off the list of assets. Maybe we should do something with the deposits, too. Then we might be able to find EUR 8 billion for the budget. (Protests from Mrs Almaci) That is literally your reasoning, Mrs Almaci. I let you finish, even if I didn't agree with you at all. Do the same for me. I did hear the Minister say that the collection is in safe hands. As long as the Belgian State retains a minimum of 5% of the shares, it will retain full control of them. I do not know of any plan today that says that 100 % or 96 % of the bank would be privatised. In that respect, I am very reassured today. I think that's a very positive message. If I agree with Mrs Almaci on one matter, it is that we must retain the collection, but the spectacle policy she is pursuing, while it was said that we retain control of it, is another way of communicating. Minister, I have heard very good news. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u22	I didn't hear anyone mention ARCO's 150 million euros. There's something to be said about that. That will give rise to a lot of discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u23	Mr President, I would suggest giving free tickets to all ARCO savers to view the collection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u24	I do not think they would be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u25	Minister, if my information is correct, a new preventive agreement on double taxation has been concluded with Germany. The German authorities allegedly initialled such a document on 15 March in Berlin. On the Belgian side, however, nothing is announced. The FPS Finance website, which was consulted on 25 June, provides a timetable for negotiations with Germany, the timing of which remains to be determined. That's surprising! You will understand that this makes access to information somewhat difficult. Minister, can you confirm that a new agreement has been concluded between Belgium and Germany? What is the content of this? What aspects have been changed and what are the main innovations? Finally, what is the date of its entry into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u26	Mr de Lamotte, I confirm that a new convention on double taxation was initialled in Berlin on 15 March this year. This agreement is the culmination of several rounds of negotiations that began in 2009. The negotiations of an international treaty are always conducted in the strictest confidentiality, which is respected until the document is finally signed. In view of the tribulations of the German government, the work took longer than expected. I hope that the convention will be signed as soon as possible. Upon signature, the document will be forwarded to the federal Parliament and will be published on the FPS Finance website.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u27	Minister, thank you for your clarification. Do you have any idea the date of publication?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u28	I hope it will be as soon as possible, but the date of signature depends on the German government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u29	Minister, thank you. You see that my information is accurate and that many people are impatient!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u30	That's, in case the Brexit continues, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u31	We have to wait and see, Mr President. Minister, in an opinion of 25 June 2018, the European Banking Authority shares its concerns about the post-brexit future of the European banking sector. EBA is particularly concerned about the lack of preparation by financial institutions to manage the risks at the departure of the United Kingdom. In particular, it refers to the possible scenario of a no deal, which is the situation in which no withdrawal treaty would be concluded and no transitional provisions agreed. It has put forward a number of issues, including a proposal to provide additional management staff, to carry out risk analyses and to carry out analyses. In any case, it is recommended that financial institutions inform their customers of how they may be affected by a no-deal scenario. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, can you give an update on the negotiations with the United Kingdom on the financial sector? Secondly, I have three sub-questions. Can you explain the situation with the Belgian financial institutions in their preparation for the Brexit, possibly even in the case of a no deal situation? Is there an effective lack of preparation and risk analysis? If so, has the National Bank of Belgium pointed out this defect or will there be a signal from the government? Thirdly, will the government take the necessary measures to prevent and reduce risks in the event of a no-dealing situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u32	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, I would like to make a preliminary remark. The answer I will give you has been prepared for Mrs May's recent proposals. They are currently being studied. Apparently, there are also a few specific issues about banking conditions. However, I would prefer to examine this in detail before commenting formally on it. For the record, therefore, I would like to say that the answers are pre-May. In reply to your first question, the European Union is negotiating a withdrawal agreement with the United Kingdom. That's obvious. Certain parts of that agreement are already subject to political agreement, such as the need for a transition period. It would start after the formal departure of the United Kingdom at the end of March 2019. Only after further negotiations and ultimately the ratification of the withdrawal agreement will there be complete certainty about the transition period. Until then, the chance of a hard Brexit unfortunately remains but of course. In addition to the withdrawal agreement, a political statement is being prepared on the framework for the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom, particularly during the transition period. The details and negotiations will only take place after the formal departure of the United Kingdom. Therefore, there are currently no specific negotiations with the United Kingdom on the financial sector. The European Council of 29 June 2018 concluded that the preparation of the political statement on the framework of the future relationship should be accelerated. The European Council also stressed the need for greater clarity in the United Kingdom, which has taken place in the meantime on a number of points. In addition, the European Council calls for the United Kingdom to come forward with realistic and workable proposals on the position of the United Kingdom in relation to this future relationship. This may be more problematic. The United Kingdom would publish a white paper on that future relationship, which has already happened. Previous speeches by the British Government show that the United Kingdom is aiming for a special arrangement in financial services. This has also been clearly demonstrated by what has been presented, although the specificity appears to be more complex. European negotiators, on the other hand, rely on the inclusion of cooperation in the field of financial services in the free trade agreement, without prejudice to the fact that both parties can continue to enforce their own financial regulations fully autonomously on their territory. A future framework, of whatever kind, must ensure financial stability in the Union and, of course, respect the Union system of regulation and supervision, as well as its standards and application. As for your second question, the follow-up to the Brexit will be closely monitored by the European Central Bank for Belgian credit institutions under its direct supervision. For the other Belgian banks, i.e. non-systemic banks, this is done by the National Bank. This national supervision is followed over and over by the ECB, but as far as strict supervision is concerned, this is the responsibility of the National Bank. The NBB shall monitor the preparations closely and shall examine proactively the ability to undertake the necessary analyses and measures for the consequences of a hard Brexit scenario, i.e. of a UK departure from the EU without a ratified withdrawal agreement in March 2019. For example, the NBB expects institutions to thoroughly identify the risk channels and the resulting risks and legal consequences. More specifically, financial institutions should assess all potential risks and implications listed in EBA opinion and take appropriate measures and provide for an action and emergency plan. These aspects are also explicitly included in the stress test. Based on an analysis of its previous survey, a number of institutions are closely monitored and encouraged by the NBB to further preparatory work, all in function of the nature of their specific transactions, relationships and existing services by, or to counterparties in the United Kingdom. Finally, your third question. The government takes the necessary steps to reduce the risks of a hard Brexit scenario and monitors the actions taken so far in the financial sector, with a view to reducing and keeping a close eye on the impact on financial institutions and their customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u33	Mr President, Minister, the questions are indeed quickly dated. If it goes on like this, it's likely to happen a few more times. That is an advantage, because then we can ask a lot of questions about it. Thank you for your answer. What is particularly important is that we prepare ourselves, especially within the financial institutions, for all possible scenarios, including those of the no deal, but I hear from you that the National Bank and the ECB are working on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u34	Mr President, Minister, within the framework of the tax shelter system for the audiovisual sector, in particular Article 194ter, Paragraph 1 (5) of the WIB 92, it is possible, under certain circumstances, to consider expenditure incurred within six months prior to the signature of the framework agreement for the eligible work as eligible expenditure, provided that the Community concerned has recognised the work and that the production company can justify why it was necessary that these expenditure should be incurred before and not after the signature. This exception to the general rule that expenditure is only taken into account if it is made from the date of signature of the framework agreement was motivated by the fact that, due to certain exceptional circumstances, there may be a difference between the time when the funds are collected and the timing of the productions, which are usually seasonal. In the FAQ of 13 September 2017, the administration specifies under which conditions expenditure incurred within six months prior to the signature of the framework agreement can therefore be taken into account as an exception to the general rule. It also states that the production company could also invoke other exceptional circumstances not mentioned in the FAQ. The impact of the corporate tax reform of late December 2017, in particular the modified advance payment scheme and the fact that the companies investing in the audiovisual sector generally have their financial year per calendar year through the tax shelter regime, would currently cause problems in this sector. Indeed, many companies and their advisors are still waiting for the concrete impact of the reformed corporate tax, which in practice encourages many advisors to wait for a tax shelter investment until there is a clear view of the impact of the reform and their taxable base. In addition, for the first time, companies are faced with the renewed rules on advance payments. For many companies, this means that they have to re-analyse their internal financial performance, which means that investments such as in the tax shelter are more likely to be transferred to the last quarter. Several producers and intermediaries face a shortage of funds to finance current productions during the first two quarters of 2018 due to this exceptional circumstance and also have negative prospects for the third quarter. This could have a significant negative impact on the sector and could even lead to bankruptcies for certain smaller production companies and intermediaries. In this context, can the corporate tax reform at the end of December 2017 and the related amendments be considered as an exceptional circumstance within the meaning of Article 194ter, Paragraph 1 (5) of the WIB 92, which can justify that expenditure incurred within six months prior to the signature of the framework agreement can be considered eligible expenditure during the first three quarters of 2018? Minister, this is a long and technical question, but it is important for the sector concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u35	Mr Klaps, the expenditure relating to the production and operation of a certain recognised work, which is done within the six months prior to the signing of the framework agreement, may be considered eligible expenditure where appropriate, provided that the production company provides sufficient justification for the expenditure to be incurred before the signature of the framework agreement. The special circumstances of the corporate tax reform and its amendments to the pre-payment scheme for taxable periods starting from 1 January 2018 may, as regards expenditure incurred in the first three quarters of the financial year 2018, be considered as exceptional circumstances within the meaning of Article 194ter, Paragraph 1 of the WIB 92. As regards subsequent quarters, that justification will no longer be accepted, given that the next stage of the corporate tax reform is sufficiently foreseeable for the following quarters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u37	Mr President, Minister, I apologize for my delay. We were receiving the Swiss Ambassador in the Committee of Opinions on European Affairs. Mr Minister, initially I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs this question. After three programmes of financial assistance from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, Greece is seeing an end to its financial crisis. The twenty-eight finance ministers of the euro area, meeting in Luxembourg with IMF patron Christine Lagarde, decided to leave Greece from the last current aid plan and thus from the quasi-truth of its creditors. On 21 June, the euro area finance ministers endorsed a final payment of EUR 15 billion. This is the last of the payments made to Greece, the first of the three consecutive financial assistance plans that began in May 2010. In total, the European Union and the IMF contributed a total of 273 billion euros. On 20 August, Greece will finally emerge from the financial supervision linked to these programmes, since it has had to carry out profound reforms, such as VAT, pensions or the salaries of civil servants, in return for the aid. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I'm losing my voice. However, it is necessary to hold until the end of the World Cup. I'm wearing a Hazard family t-shirt because the Hazard brothers are from my hometown, Braine le Comte. In fact, the Prime Minister and Minister Ducrame will be there tonight for the occasion. In the face of the astronomical level of public debt, at 178 per cent of GDP, debt relief measures were also introduced with a ten-year extension of the duration of loans and delays in repayment of interest. Mr Minister, what is Belgium's reaction to this agreement signed at the last Eurogroup on the Greek financial crisis? Are there still monitoring measures by the European authorities and the IMF on Greek finances? Can the fairly sharp increase in Greek GNP over the past year, particularly through tourism, continue? Can this increase be sufficient to avoid the current aid plan? Minister, thank you for your answers and the follow-up you will give to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u38	My colleague, Belgium and all the other euro area countries welcome the successful completion of the financial assistance programme for Greece and the agreement reached at the Eurogroup meeting on 21 June. This agreement, together with the budgetary and structural reforms implemented in recent years by Greece and the commitment to continue to undertake reforms, will enable Greece to exit positively from the financial assistance programme and ensure the sustainability of Greek debt. With regard to monitoring measures, each Member State which has benefited from a macro-economic adjustment programme of the European Stability Mechanism shall, when exiting from this programme, be subject to post-program monitoring. Taking into account the special economic and financial situation of Greece and the amount of financial aid granted to Greece, the European Commission intends to activate, in the coming weeks, the so-called enhanced supervision procedure, an approach which has also been supported by the Greek authorities themselves. This monitoring is described as "reinforced", as the development of the Greek situation will be assessed through quarterly reports that will allow for closer monitoring of the economic, budgetary and financial situation as well as post-programme political commitments made by Greece. This enhanced monitoring will be in place until 2022 and normal post-program monitoring will continue even after that date. As far as the growth of Greek GDP is concerned, I remain convinced that the growth of Greece can continue in view of the significant efforts made in recent years – unfortunately not done before – by Greece in terms of structural and budgetary reform and the commitment made to continue and finalize the implementation of all the key reforms adopted in the framework of the financial assistance programme. The financial assistance and debt relief measures that Greece has already benefited, coupled with these reforms, from prudent fiscal policies and an ambitious growth strategy are the essential elements for maintaining Greek growth. I come to your last question. The current aid plan, as well as all the measures to alleviate Greek debt, have been absolutely essential for Greece to be able to cope with its serious economic, budgetary and financial problems, if not social ones. Without all these efforts by the euro area Member States, the Greek economy could not have been revived.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u39	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. The extremely difficult period since 2010 has made it possible to correct what had not been done either by the Greek Government or by the European authorities when it was accepted that Greece should enter the euro area, although it was clearly not prepared for it. At the time, this had been done for political reasons. I think things are actually getting better today. It is quite symptomatic to see that young people who had emigrated elsewhere in Europe are beginning to return. I believe that this is really a very interesting sign, which is also observed in Spain. I would almost tend to say that to help Greece, beyond the institutions, many Europeans would have to go there as tourists. This obviously helps to boost employment and Greece in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u40	Minister, I asked the Prime Minister a question in plenary a few weeks ago about a separate budget for the countries of the euro area. Merkel and Macron advocated a kind of separate budget. This would free up billions to absorb shocks in the euro area and ensure greater economic convergence between Member States in the euro area. I read in the Dutch press, because little has been said about this in the Belgian press, that the Dutch Finance Minister Hoekstra is opposed to this budget for the euro area. He could have warmed up 12 EU countries to write a critical letter to Mr Cento, the Portuguese President of the Ecofin Council. There are many questions about this budget for the euro area. They say that they do not know what it is going to lead to, that they do not know their statute, that they are wondering whether it should be paid through a European financial transaction tax and what the implications are for a joint investment programme. In short, many questions remained open. The following concerns me, however. I believe that this dossier is not yet 100% mature and that there is still much to be discussed about the implications of such a budget for the euro area, regardless of the general budget for the EU. It says, however, that you would have signed that critical letter together with 12 countries. I was told by the Prime Minister in plenary that he was actually a great supporter of this and that he was on the line of Merkel and Macron to make that happen. He also said in his reply that it all had to be drawn out very precisely. Did you sign that letter or not? If so, on whose behalf did you sign that letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u41	Mr President, I can actually be brief. You refer to a critical letter addressed to Mário Centeno, the President of the Eurogroup. That's how it got in the press, I can't deny it. However, there has been no letter of any kind. Here's what happened. We have had a long discussion in this famous Eurogroup about a budget for the euro area, in what way, under what conditions, for what amounts and so on. At the end of the discussion, Mr Centeno gave a summary of the discussion. Turned out what? He clearly had a whole series of arguments, pro and versus, not included in his summary. We have said with twelve or thirteen countries that it was not possible to give a summary as chairman of a meeting, leaving out half of the discussion. We sent an email to Cento with twelve or thirteen finance ministers, of the most diverse plumage, and pointed out to him that, for the sake of completeness, he felt that he should include additional elements in his communication on the discussion that had taken place within the Eurogroup. It is by no means the case that I or the other eleven or twelve endorse all these points. We simply pointed out that these points were included in the discussion, but were not included in his note verbale. That's what happened. I'm gonna stand behind that. If a meeting president summarises a discussion, I can understand why he overlooks two or three details. This is peculiar to a summary, but it was not evident to a large number of people present that he was able to agree with or disagree with a number of important points. For the rest, as the Prime Minister said, there is still a great deal of thought to be given to this euro budget. How will it be organized, with what mechanisms? There is no such thing as a budget in itself. A budget consists of the things that are put into it and that can work as a budget. Those are things that still have to be filled in. We must be careful not to create gratuite flows of money, in any direction, which are subject to insufficient control or discipline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u42	I am also in favour of the principle of a separate euro budget, in that there are mechanisms for contributing to economic convergence and for certain countries which cause certain shocks in the euro area. However, I agree with you that its impact is not clear. It must not be a new circuit of aid to countries that are in difficulty. It must be centred on the euro area, on the currency itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u43	It is indeed inevitable and necessary that there should be an increased form of risk-sharing between the Member States of monetary union. The question is just how it is best organized to increase cohesion within monetary union and to prevent profit-making.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u44	Following the migration crisis, this issue will undoubtedly remain at the heart of the European Council, but there are other concerns at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 26472 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u46	Mr President, Minister, my first question concerns start-up measures. This government has already taken several measures to support start-ups. It concerns the tax shelter, the exemption from the transfer of company tax and so on. The definition of starter means that it is a company up to four years after its creation or a single-man business up to four years after its registration in the FBO. From the practical point of view, the question of possibilities of interpretation and what the concept of "starter" means. In a normal situation one starts up and is a starter. These are, in particular, situations where there is a start-up of a company or an independent activity which is subsequently discontinued, taken over or declared bankrupt, and where a new activity or a continuation of the previous activity takes place thereafter. For many start-ups, this is an important question, because it concerns the legal certainty that they have about whether or not they can benefit from the support measures in question. In addition, it appears that when it is completed by the administration, it may depend on regional management to regional management, and even from the controller to the controller, how that continuation is completed. Again, legal certainty is important here. It is important that we know exactly what will be covered by the legislation. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First, how can the notion of "start-up company" be filled in in situations where an undertaking or self-employed activity is discontinued within four years of its creation or registration and after which another undertaking or self-employed activity is operated at the same location? What criteria do you think should be used to determine whether that other undertaking or self-employed activity is new or whether it is a continuation of the previous undertaking or self-employed activity? Secondly, can you confirm that when an undertaking or an independent activity is terminated, whether or not by bankruptcy, within four years of its creation or registration, and subsequently operated at the same location, another undertaking or an independent activity is new, if that undertaking or an activity is not established with the previous undertaking or activity and focuses on another market and clientele? Is your answer different if the other company or activity is related to the previous company or activity and thus focuses on the same market and the same clientele, which means that there is a continuation? Thirdly, can you clarify the consequences of that distinction between these two situations for the preservation, withdrawal or re-application of the given support? These are some technical questions, but I think they are important to different companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u47	Mr Van Peteghem, on the exemption from withholding tax for interest on loans concluded through a crowdfunding platform, it is stipulated that the borrowing company has been registered for a maximum period of 48 months in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises or in a similar register in a Member State of the European Economic Area. There is no change in activity, although the legislator has stipulated in the parliamentary documents that some situations are excluded from the measure, but in that case the general anti-abuse clause is of course applicable. With regard to the tax reduction for the acquisition of new shares of start-ups and the exemption from the transfer of company advance tax, the notion of continuation of an activity may play a role in assessing the 48-month period. The criteria for calculating that time limit differ for both measures. In addition, the tax shelter for start-up companies must be investment in a company, while the exemption from the transfer of a company advance charge is intended to cover employers' natural persons or companies. In order to determine whether or not there is a continuation of an activity, a thorough examination of all factual circumstances specific to each case is required and therefore it is difficult to make general statements on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u48	Minister, there is a need to clarify this. Take the following example of a company in bankruptcy that is being taken over. These two starters have nothing to do with each other, but the new starter naturally wonders whether he is still entitled to support measures. It is necessary that the answer to that question is not dependent on the controller, but on the situation in which one finds himself. There should therefore be more legal certainty than is the case today. Perhaps we can work on that in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u49	Mr President, Minister, who started as a self-employed person is, of course, confronted with VAT obligations and will therefore have to include VAT on the goods and services he or she sells, with a deduction of input tax for the VAT paid for the own purchase of goods and services. The deduction of input tax is of course not insignificant for the cash flow of the starting company or activity. In this context, it is often argued from the point of view of practice that the refund of the VAT paid must be delayed too long. The waiting period may sometimes be up to six months or more, with the start-up company, which often has a low financial level, having to cover that period, which is not always easy. Invoices sometimes amount to tens of thousands of euros, which puts a mortgage on their survival. Therefore, the government could further support start-ups by speeding up the reimbursement of the VAT already paid so that entrepreneurs can better control their cash flow. That is why I have the following questions. Mr Minister, are you prepared to instruct the administration to refund the VAT paid to start-ups more quickly so that we can better support them? If not, why not? Is it true that, in some cases, repayment should be postponed to more than six months? Can anything be done about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u50	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, I immediately acknowledge the problem. It is true that the current payment periods of VAT credits, in particular for start-ups, can frequently raise a problem with the cash flow available. In other words, there may, of course, be unintentional cash flow problems in those entities. I therefore have a measure in preparation, which is that for both monthly and quarterly operators you know that in certain circumstances both may be provided for an accelerated VAT refund in the period of 24 months after the start of the VAT activity. In concrete terms, according to the new provision, monthly providers will also receive their VAT balance back monthly. For quarterly contractors, this will be bimonthly. I hope that we will be able to implement the measure as soon as possible, which is really the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u51	Minister, that is a very good proposal, which I fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u52	Minister, many frontier workers have concluded supplementary health and life insurance insurance in Germany. Recently, they found that their invoice was increased by around 9%, with the reason given for the imposition of this type of insurance in Belgium. The German insurance companies refer to judgment C-243/11 of the Court of Justice of the European Union for the reason of this tariff increase. They pass on the tax they owe to the Belgian tax authorities to their Belgian policyholders. Mr Minister, can you confirm that the taxation provided for by the Belgian State concerns both health and life insurance? Moreover, it appears that German citizens residing in Belgium and working in Germany would not be affected by this tax. Can you tell me if this information is correct and, if so, why would it be so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u53	Mr de Lamotte, Article 173 of the Code of Miscellaneous Duties and Taxes provides that life and non-life insurance contracts are subject to an annual tax where the risk of the insurance operation is deemed to be in Belgium. At the end of that provision, the risk of the insurance operation shall be deemed to be situated in Belgium, in particular where the lessee has his habitual residence there or where the lessee is a legal person, where the establishment of the latter to which the contract relates is situated in Belgian territory. The Court of Justice of the European Union ruled in its judgment of 21 February 2013 for a dynamic interpretation of the concept of residence and concluded that "Article 50 of Directive 2002/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 November 2002 on direct life insurance must be interpreted as meaning that it does not preclude a Member State from levying an indirect tax on life insurance premiums paid by natural persons who are habitually resident in that Member State, where the insurance contracts concerned were entered into in another Member State in which those policyholders had, on the date of subscription, their habitual residence". Since Belgian legislation takes the policyholder's residence as a place of risk, both for life and non-life insurance contracts, the dynamic interpretation accepted by the Court of Justice of the European Union also applies to sickness insurance. This judgment of the Court of Justice, which ruled on the fate reserved for the annual tax on insurance operations in the event of the transfer of residence of the policyholder in the course of the life insurance contract, and which followed a preliminary question referred by the Court of First Instance in Brussels, therefore also applies to German citizens residing in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u54	Mr Minister, are German citizens residing in Belgium and working in Germany subject to this tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u56	You confirm! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u57	Questions Nos 26488, 26489 and 26491 by Mr Roel Deseyn have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u58	Minister, the social contributions of a national resident subject to personal income tax are calculated on the basis of his or her professional income. A national resident who is covered by the self-employed status and who obtains income taxed exclusively in Belgium may deduct his social contributions in full from his occupational income. However, if the selfemployed person acquires, in addition to his Belgian professional income, foreign exempt occupational income, the tax administration may apply a proportional allocation of social contributions as actual professional costs by law under Article 7 (4). The article states that "actual professional costs common to different professional activities or which at the same time have a bearing on income obtained in different countries shall be redistributed in a responsible manner." In some cases, for the taxpayer, social contributions paid in Belgium have to be allocated proportionally to the exempt occupational income. This is a disadvantage for the taxpayer because the deduction applied to exempt income no longer confers a tax advantage. This contrasts with the total deduction a selfemployed person receives if he acquires only professional income taxed in Belgium. Can such an application of Article 7 (4), where proportional allocation is also made to exempt occupational income, also be regarded as "a responsible way'? Can the application of Article 7 (4) on social security contributions be maintained following the recent judgment of the European Court of Justice in Bechtel-Finanzamt Offenburg of 22 June 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u59	That judgment is clearly of great importance to the problem you have outlined in detail and correctly. The administration's running the arrest all the way now. A circular will then be drawn up immediately to make clear the implications of that judgment. However, we are not ready for that today. I hope that it can be done quite quickly, because it must be clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope I get the documents as soon as they're ready, without having to ask again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u61	Mr President, Minister, with the reform of corporate tax through the Law of 25 December 2017, the capital reduction scheme was amended in Article 18, second paragraph of the WIB 92. Thus, the rules for the charging changed. From 2018 onwards, a company will no longer be able to choose how the capital reduction is charged. You will remember our brief speeches on this subject. After all, we were not happy with this measure. The reduction is now automatically charged pro rata on the paid-up capital and on the company's reserves. As a result, part of the reimbursement on the reserves becomes a distribution of dividends and thus taxable. In the past, in the event of a capital reduction, the company was free to choose on which item the capital reduction was charged. However, the nature of the capital subsidies is unclear. With a view to the correct application of Article 18, can you clarify the nature of capital subsidies in the context of the pro rata calculation of the capital reduction?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u62	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, if the accounting provisions are complied with, the amount of capital subsidies included in the account is regarded as an exempt reserve and is, in principle, not eligible for the application of the said charge. On the other hand, the part taxed is a taxed reserve which is, in principle, eligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u63	So capital subsidies are excluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u64	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u65	Mr Minister, I apologise in advance for my rather technical question. Following a very extensive discussion in Parliament in 2008, a new law was introduced which provided a new tax regime for sportsmen and women's professional income and, of course, a new code in the tax return, namely code 1273. The declaration form shall indicate the ordinary remuneration of the sportspersons obtained under an employment contract for the performance of their sporting activity, irrespective of whether the debtor of the income belongs to the public sector or the private sector. Minister, is that article being used? Who's using that? What is the average amount declared? I realize that it is a question of statistics, but I asked them orally to know the result quickly. Of course, I am also happy with the answer to paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u66	Mr Van Biesen, I have here a table of figures for you. In 2010, there were 5 000 declarations for 125 million euros of income, an average amount of 25 00 euros. This increased in 2016 to nearly 16 000 declarations for an amount of 190 million euros. This means that the average amount falls, more or less evenly, from EUR 25 000 to EUR 12 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u68	Minister, a press article published in Le Vif on 8 March reported the disappearance of more than 10 billion euros from Libyan funds, controlled by relatives of Gaddafi, of accounts opened at Euroclear Bank Belgium between 2013 and 2017. This disappearance is as worrying as it is incomprehensible since, following a decision by the United Nations, these funds – which come from a total of 16.1 billion euros in accounts – have been frozen since 2011 and Belgium has never authorized the thawing, according to the SPF Finances. This disappearance was discovered following the seizure of an investigating judge who would not have found all the amounts frozen, but only part – 5 billion. As is well known, a judicial investigation is under way and a delegation of the United Nations Security Council has reportedly come to Brussels to investigate as well. Minister, without asking you to comment on an ongoing judicial investigation, do you confirm that members of the UN have come to Brussels to investigate this disappearance? Did you meet them? Are there any new elements that we might be aware of?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u69	Mr Minister, on the basis of the same article and following the questions I have already asked you on this subject, it does indeed appear that a United Nations delegation, composed of three experts, was sent to Brussels in mid-May to investigate this issue. According to Le Vif, the three delegates visited Alexandre De Geest, deputy head of the Treasury (SPF Finance). Minister, can you tell me if you confirm that a UN delegation has visited Belgium to investigate the Libyan funds file? Do you confirm that this delegation met with the deputy head of the Treasury? What was the purpose of this meeting? Following this meeting, should the deputy head of the Treasury provide additional information to the UN? Which ones? Did the same delegation meet with other members of the FPS Finance or members of your firm? Which ones and why? Are you aware of the reasons behind this UN investigation in Belgium? Can you give us the results of this investigation? Do you confirm that this UN delegation must return to Belgium to continue this investigation? Does it need to meet with FPS Finance members in this context? Which ones and with what object?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that no frozen Libyan assets have disappeared since 2011. I am formal on this point. With regard to the visit of the United Nations panel of experts, it took place, like any other visit of the other committees, in accordance with the resolutions and not within a specific framework. That is how I also received the visit of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights. Mr. De Geest, deputy head of the Treasury, was also present at this meeting. Visits of committee experts are coordinated by the FPS Foreign Affairs. Members of my administration are invited to participate. I confirm that this was the case for Mr. From Geest. With regard to the issues relating to the dispute, I can confirm that a judicial procedure is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u71	Mr Minister, on foreign affairs, I think that questions should also be put to Mr Reynders. Nevertheless, according to Le Vif, the Belgian authorities have stopped an asbl founded by Prince Laurent from recovering millions of euros of damages from the Libyan State. These accusations are very serious. I hope that this is not the sole basis for the Prince's downsizing. The question is asked. If some have become specialists in cropping, you may have to ask the number one of cropping not to be the wrong target.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u72	Minister, I regret that in this case you consistently gave only half-answers and very difficult statements to verify. I asked you specific questions about the funds, about the interests of the funds. You never answered me. Nevertheless, there are real questions. The same applies to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. He's playing hide-and-seek. I had put a question to him. He was supposed to be here this afternoon to answer questions, but he is obviously in St Petersburg, as part of a more media project than providing answers to questions within the framework of democratic control by Parliament. I'm sorry. You confirm that a court case is under way. It certainly requires some discretion. Because you don't say anything specific about this case, you let the suspicion go. I believe that Parliament has the right to obtain more precise answers than you give. I will therefore continue to ask you questions based on the elements that the press is gradually updating.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u73	Minister, as on several occasions, I will try to take stock with you of the federal government's plan to introduce a share of Belfius' capital on a stock exchange, even though this subject has already been addressed in part by my colleague Meyrem Almaci's questions about the Belfius art collection. I have already expressed to you all our scepticism about this hypothesis and our conviction regarding the 100% public nature of Belfius as an opportunity for the development of a different banking model. At the time of the presentation of the quarterly results at the end of 2017, the CEO of Belfius had specified the envisaged scenario, i.e. the disposal of 30% of the capital in "May-June 2018", which is now exceeded. In view of the importance of this dossier for the Belgian economy and the federal government's finances, I would like to obtain some clarification on the state of play of this ongoing process and on the possibility of putting it in the fridge. Minister, is the Belfius OPI still in place or has the government changed its option? If so, what is the new timetable? Confirm that this entry on the stock exchange is politically linked to a solution in the Arco file, in the form of compensation from the co-operators or an authorization to visit the Belfius collection on the fourth Saturday of the month, as proposed by Mr. Van Peteghem? What is the status of this compensation for Arco's co-operators? Has the European Commission been asked to agree on this operation under the competition rules? What is his opinion on this? Among the business banks commissioned to prepare this file, which global coordinator was appointed? Which business banks are involved? Under what procedure have these designations been made? What has been done so far and what will be the cost of these benefits? What is the result of the market test performed? What preliminary studies have been or will be commissioned, including the impact on its operation, risk-taking and long-term vision of a bank's presence on the stock exchange?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u74	Mr Gilikinet, I confirm that Belfius' partial IPO is still on the agenda. The choice of this privatisation method was based on a study by the consortium Bank of America Merrill Lynch/Eubelius/KMG. The explicit mandate to the consortium was to propose a privatisation technique that would not only be financially optimal, but would also safeguard the social role of Belfius in employment and the Belgian economy. This resulted in the Summer Agreement of 2017 until the choice of a partial IPO, the recommendation of the consortium and also of the management of Belfius itself. In the meantime, the technical preparations have been launched. Nomura and Clairfield were appointed as financial advisors. Freshfields has been appointed as legal counsel to the authorities. As required by this type of transaction, a trade union of business banks has also been designated. It consists of international banks such as Citibank and Belgian players such as KBC, Belfius and Fortis, who have a good knowledge of the local market. The criteria used in their selection were based, among other things, on quality, experience with stock exchange introductions, knowledge of Belfius and valuation. So far, the costs for consultants have been around 2 million euros. The total cost of the stock exchange introduction should be around EUR 10 million, if that introduction is still taking place in 2018. Since confidentiality in such a process is essential, I cannot go into other financial aspects at the moment and certainly not timing. It is a fact that bank shares have fallen in value since April, which of course does not facilitate any IPO. As for the questions relating to the Arco case, I refer you to the Prime Minister, who, as you know, has the lead on this specific issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u75	Minister, thank you for making the point. I will make three comments in reply. This project is not lost for everyone. You mentioned the fees that have been paid, or will have to be paid, to some operators, which are one of the Big Four, a well-known law firm (Eubelius), different business banks. Here's my second remark. My confidence in these operators is, I confess, limited. Not that they do not have skills, but they sometimes use them poorly. I would like to repeat my third point. The government took a bad start by choosing Belfius's stock market rather than developing a development bank from Belfius, as it exists in Germany and other countries. Starting from 100% public capital, it could finance the real economy, local communities, and the transition from the economy to a low carbon model. The fact that a state has a lever like this is not an anachronism. It is rather a form of modernism to which you turn your back, and I regret it. My only hope is that this IPO will not succeed, perhaps for the reasons you mentioned, or because of the decrease in Belfius' capital value compared to the beginning of the year. I hope we can one day beat the cards with another majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u76	Is that a wish?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u77	It's hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u78	Mr President, Mr Minister, I have been asked very recently by two interlocutors - an SME and a Namibian BSA - who have told me how they are dealt with by VAT services and the rules applicable to fines which are sometimes a little quick vis-à-vis good-faith interlocutors who are useful to the economy or to the social link. In the meantime, you have announced a relaxation of the rules. That's why I'm asking you about this. With regard to VAT, the legislator has provided for several possibilities for sanctions, namely fiscal fines and criminal sanctions. The penalties for VAT are set out in articles 70 et seq. of the Code. First of all, in the event of non-payment of VAT, article 70 of the Code provides that, for any breach of the obligation to pay the tax, a fine shall be incurred equal to twice the tax evaded or paid late. On the other hand, the Code does not differentiate between taxpayers who have properly submitted their VAT returns and have not honoured them for various reasons, sometimes legitimate and understandable, and those who simply did not submit their VAT returns. Sometimes the delay in payment of VAT is simply due to a cash flow problem, delays in payment of customers (including when it comes to public authorities) or an exponential development of a company's activities. Sometimes it is a simple distraction error, for example if a taxpayer has transmitted VAT data from a previous year rather than the current year, whereas it is easily corrected by a simple reminder. This is the case of the ASBL that I was seized of. In this context, tax fines are particularly difficult to accept, or even, given their rate, can be a brake or a stop in the development of activity. That is the case with the inquiry that I received. It may be questioned whether differential treatment between the delay of pure payment and the absence of VAT declarations and better criteria for differentiation between taxpayers of good will in temporary difficulty and those who are negligent, or even fraudulent, in the context of VAT carousels should not be applied. Minister, in L'Écho of this Friday, June 29, 2018, you refer to your intention to relax the rules on VAT fines for defaulting taxpayers. This can be an interesting perspective depending on the criteria used. Could you give me a quick explanation of the current rules on late payment of VAT? Is a distinction made between the taxpayer who has not filed a return and the taxpayer who is late for payment? Is a distinction made between a taxpayer who has not filed a return and a taxpayer who has made a material error, for example, by submitting a return for a bad period of time? Is the fine automatic or does the taxpayer have recourse capacity, in particular if he/she is temporarily a victim of cash flow difficulties due to objectivable payment delays or if it is a mere distraction? What exactly are the easing measures you have given for the VAT administration to apply? Will they take the form of an internal directive or an amendment to the law? In general, and although it may be difficult to formalize, should we not afford ourselves the means to make a greater distinction between taxpayers in good faith and those who try to defraud? Is there a structured dialogue between the FPS Finances and taxpayers' representatives, such as the UCM and Unizo? Would it not be useful to organize it? I recently met with UCM officials who told me that they found it a pity not to have the ability to dialogue with the FPS Finance, not on specific cases, but on general issues such as the comprehensible nature of the forms used by the FPS Finance. Sometimes dialogue can make things easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u79	Mr President, my colleague, legally, the deposit and payment of the periodic declaration must always be made, not later than the 20th working day of the month following the period concerned. A distinction should be made between late payment of a periodic declaration to VAT, late filing or non-deposit of that declaration. A taxable person who has failed to comply with this payment period shall not receive a fine, but shall be liable for a delay interest of 0,8 % per month. However, if special account is to be taken for failure to pay or for regular delay in payment, the taxable person shall be fined, in addition to the above interest, an amount equivalent to 10% of the VAT due resulting from the declaration. Please also know that my administration is working on a reform of the interest on late payment on the basis of the principle of good faith of the taxable person. A taxable person who late files his periodic declaration is liable to a fine of EUR 100 per month of delay, with a maximum of EUR 1 000. Failure to declare is punishable by a fine of EUR 1 000. The administration has always shown tolerance, especially during holiday periods, but not only, towards taxable persons who are only a few days late for the filing and payment of their periodic declaration. With regard to tax fines, the VAT Code provides for fines both for non-filing of periodic returns and for material errors relating to filing. However, the scale of fines for material error is significantly lower than that for non-filing. With regard to VAT, fines and interest are automatically due, with the exception of purely fortuitous infringements. These are irregularities due to ignorance of errors or omission and for which there can be no doubt about the offender's good faith. For all other infringements, the taxable person may always, as the case may be, submit a reasoned request for remission of a fine on the basis of the Regent's order of 18 March 1831, to the General Tax Administration, or for remission of interest on the basis of Article 84a of the VAT Code. Measures emanating from the principle of good faith of the taxable person in the processing of applications for remission or reduction of fines for a first infringement have been explained to the competent departments through an internal investigation. On the other hand, there is of course no easing of any cases of fraud or anyone acting in bad faith. Various clear guidelines have been given, both on the one hand for those who are confronted with a case of force majeure and on the other hand for cases of fraud. My administration has communicated the entry into force of these measures to the representatives concerned and to the Federal Ombudsman. More generally, it has been some time since discussions with the sector were under way on the issue of VAT fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u80	Minister, thank you for that clarification. My constant impression in this matter is that there is a great difference between theory and practice and a tendency to hound on some interlocutors - I would say easy preys. I am not the one who will challenge the usefulness of good tax collection and the fight against fraud. I would like to ask you regularly about the matter. Clearly, taxpayers in good faith and useful to our economy feel that they are victims of a little bit of speed on the part of VAT services. I hope that the new instructions you have given will make it possible to make a better distinction. I can only encourage a dialogue, by regional management, with local economic interlocutors to try to remove elements of misunderstanding, or even to change practices or the law where possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u81	Mr President, Minister, excuse me for returning to a case on which I have already questioned you on 22 May. These are the fiscal difficulties encountered by various Belgian teachers who have been active in Belgian private schools in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi. They acted in all good faith and served as teachers under sometimes difficult conditions, for a salary equivalent to that which they could have received in Belgium. However, they are being claimed significant tax supplements. As a follow-up to your answer, which I communicated to the people concerned, I was questioned by other teachers. I have documented myself on the matter. It appears that the problem arose only for the 2012-2013 school year's income and that not all the teachers concerned were treated in the same way, some of whom were taxed, while others were not. I am not arguing that everyone should be subject to a tax supplement. Of course, it's the other way around. In this case, the workers concerned seem to me to be victims of a situation which they did not want and for which they are not responsible. On the one hand, their employer did not pay the occupational discount for them. On the other hand, the existing tax treaties between our country and the Democratic Republic of the Congo were not valid for that period, but came into force shortly thereafter. At the very least, this is an uncomfortable situation for people who are ill-rewarded for their commitment to a form of development cooperation, in the service of education, under ungrateful wage, social and security conditions and who are victims of poor information or even because their employer has not taken responsibility. Minister, if you have been able to collect additional information, do you confirm that the problem is only for the 2012-2013 school year? How many teachers are involved? Do you confirm that the treatment of these revenues by the tax administration has been different according to the regional directorates? What justifies such a difference in treatment? What about the responsibility of the employer of these teachers with respect to the payment of the professional discount for this period? Has the FPS Finance, if any, undertaken a collection initiative against this employer? Given the unfortunate and exceptional nature of this case, to what extent, in your capacity as minister, can you act for conciliation in order to treat these remunerations in the same way as previous and subsequent years for the teachers concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u82	Mr Gilkinet, the problem concerns the period 2012-2014. However, it does not affect all teachers in the same way. A total of 28 of them were checked. Fair and identical treatment for each case was imposed on all services, taking into account the specificities of each case. The persons concerned have actually been subject to tax in our country on the basis of these particularities. Only in circumstances specific to certain teachers implies that the professional discount will be due. The employer is obliged to detain him only if he has been informed. As a result, the FPS Finance has not taken any initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic948x.u83	Minister, let us simply try to put ourselves in the place of those interested, sometimes young, who have accepted a position in another country for a salary equivalent to that which they received at home. They believed in good faith that their wages were prepaid or that they benefited from a tax treaty such as their net was equivalent to what they received here. Then, when they return, they get taxed on their net, as if it were the crude. They worked for a year for a salary of 1,000 euros a month, which is not the remuneration of a teacher, even if it is not high enough in our country. When they find that according to criteria established by the tax administration, their colleague in the neighbouring class was not subjected in the same way, they obviously cannot understand it. You tell me that there are 28 cases and that three years are involved. The amounts recovered by the Federal State are therefore minimal in view of the extent of tax evasion. Moreover, it is not this phenomenon that is referred to in this case. I do not understand that your administrator does not adopt a finer and more understanding approach to the issue and that it does not encourage employers - in this case, NSOs - to take their responsibilities in terms of discount. This situation is absolutely unjust. I regret that they cannot be the subject of any form of conciliation or exceptional intervention on your part or by any other means. Clearly, those involved are in good faith.
