ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u2	Following the attack in Liège on Tuesday 29 May 2018, the National Assembly of the State of Kuwait expressed its condolences. On the occasion of the deadly attack in Liège on Tuesday, May 29, 2018, I received a message of condolences from the National Assembly of the State of Kuwait.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u3	The general discussion has resumed. The general discussion was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate you because you have managed to achieve unanimity against you. I am not talking about political unanimity. I am, of course, talking about the unanimity of the actors concerned in the main in all the sectors of activity - and they are very many - covered by this bill. The representatives of the employers, the representatives of the workers, the self-employed on both the side of the market sector and the non-market sector, all expressed strong reservations or even frank opposition to your project. To have almost unanimity at this point is obviously a real feat. It is true that some of you, at the time of the hearings - I am referring to the parties of the majority of course - were still particularly embarrassed at the roundabouts in front of all the critics. In the majority, some said and I repeat them, since I had noted some elements at that time, that it was absolutely necessary to learn the lessons from them because the hearings were terribly critical. Some had said that there was indeed a big problem, that safeguards were not sufficient and that they should therefore be strengthened. It was hoped at that time that there would be some space for dialogue and, above all, a return to something more effective, more limited and which, therefore, avoided all the perverse effects denounced by the actors on the ground. That was obviously not the case. It was just wind in front of the actors concerned, since you didn't change anything. It is true that at the method level, from the beginning, the dossier had started badly with a clear lack of consultation with the sectors directly concerned. From the beginning, you wanted to mark the blow by announcing your willingness to move into force at the end of last year. Months have passed. These months could and should have allowed this project to evolve. With the reservations relayed as much as possible from the ground and with this important mobilization of civil society, we have tried to force this dialogue, but neither have you marked any openness. The same applies to consultation with federated entities. Although it was carried out, it was only a façade, while a large part of the activities covered by this bill concern sectors directly within their jurisdiction. The story may be reborn as you have announced a correcting law. It is not yet known whether it will be a real correcting law or a riquiqui, arch-minimalistic law. It is totally surreal to vote on a bill today, which is known, moreover, that the coming into force will be retroactive for several months and which we do not know how long, but certainly not before 21 July, corrective measures will therefore also come into force perhaps one year before its adoption. It's work backwards! For a government that had called itself "good management", the least we can say is that it is not really good management! And yet, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of starting out might have been interesting because it was a question of responding to a specific need of the amateur sports sector and, possibly and why not, of the cultural and artistic sector - for example, the performing arts - by creating a status that would lie between volunteering and professional work. On that, we could have followed you. But the project, after this initial announcement, was extended, far beyond the sports sector, to a whole series of activities. It is difficult to find sectors that are not directly or indirectly concerned. The list of sectors is extremely broad and activities are even more extensive. Your other idea of starting out was your desire to reduce black work and fraudulent work. I quote you, Madam Minister, from the parliamentary documents from the preparatory work: "In the voluntary sector, it is often more than just a payment to people, which turns volunteering into work in the dark." An unsubstantiated statement, without figures or demonstration, insulting the vast majority of volunteers and the organizations that use it. But more fundamentally, it is far from certain that black work will decrease with this project. Benefits will be exempt up to EUR 6 000, but work in the black may continue beyond EUR 6 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u5	Are you asking for another amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u6	No. Such a mechanism will not prevent work in the dark, which will not disappear, despite your statements. That's only what I'm saying here. I will come to the aspect of the controls later. At the end of the race, an idea clearly confined to one or two particular sectors has turned into a new status or rather a new "structure" for a multitude of disparate and often imprecise activities. Under outdoors that may have seemed sexy at first, this device with attractive appearances revealed, in the analysis, many perverse effects. Who doesn't want to round his end of the month without social security contributions and without taxes? The perverse effects relate to unfair competition with professional or regular workers, deprofessionalisation of entire sectors of the social economy, risks to the safety and quality of services for beneficiary users, and lower revenues for public finances. I will not go back to all the issues, but to three main issues: unfair competition and the shift of professional work towards this new status which I call this new "truth", which concerns non-marketers and finally volunteerism. I come to unfair competition and to the shift from professional work to associative work and services between citizens. How can regular professional work be prevented from moving in part towards associative work and services between citizens, or even towards collaborative platforms? How can we ensure that voluntary work or work between citizens does not absorb part of the activities currently carried out by workers under contract of employment or by self-employed persons? That's the big question. In this connection, we heard earlier from Mr Clarinval with his famous "garde-fous". He had already told us in committee. In the safeguards, you say it's a limited list of activities. Wrong! It is an extremely broad list of activities that includes almost all sectors. You say that, as a guard, compensation is capped and time is limited. And then, you say there's a series of prohibitions. Basically, you prohibit unfair competition. Prohibiting is one thing, especially in the device you've planned. Do we have to remember that, for many, we are in the register of the private sphere and that you are obviously not going to send social inspectors into the private sphere? Therefore, in terms of control to ensure that there is no unfair competition, this raises a number of questions. The CNT also denounced "the lack of effective control for services which are essentially regulated in the private sphere, which leads to a very high risk of unfair competition for companies, organisations and self-employed workers who indeed respect the rules of the game and for companies in certain sectors which are linked to certain rules on authorisation or other sectoral regulations". It's nice to tell us that there are safeguards. But when you put safeguards, they have to be effective. However, from the moment we are in the private sphere, I repeat, you obviously do not have the opportunity to have sufficient safeguards. Minister, you have been asked to give us an example. The one mentioned by my colleague, Meryame Kitir, particularly struck me in committee. In essence, it was sufficient to distinguish between certain types of activities. The minister said: "If the electrician simply replaces a fuse, or any other occasional DIY, which has jumped from his neighbours, then this falls within the scope of occasional services. On the other hand, he will not be able to accept, as such, a work consisting, for example, of replacing the electrical installation of those same neighbours. Nor will he be able to make benefits for his employer. The border is obviously tenuous. Indeed, between changing a fuse and changing an electrical installation, there is a significant difference, but for all the interventions that lie between the two, the possibility of making a distinction is anything but simple, Madam Minister. How can we ensure that the worker will not indirectly compete with his employer by offering to a potential employer's client? This will also not prevent employers from using employees from other companies to perform some of the current activities of employees as casual services. Again, this constitutes unfair competition. Your safeguards are therefore not safeguards worthy of this name. Besides, you've always looked at things with a strictly micro vision. You try to put tags at the level of the individual working relationship, but you absolutely do not take into account the macro effects of this project. The collective impact of free time benefits is not taken into account at all. However, several compensation activities amounting to €6,000, which appear to be marginal in isolation, can have and will have significant cumulative impacts. The fact that each provider can only be paid up to a maximum of EUR 6 000 per year will in no way prevent competition between the activity of a professional and harm regular work, either because the user will employ several providers or because the professional activity will consist of a series of services of limited scope, but with several users. In doing so, and I believe this is the first fundamental criticism of your project, you are creating totally unfair competition with regard to self-employed workers and SMEs. This is a genuine intra-Belgian dumping. And what is deeply shocking is that you create zero-cost work compared to high-cost work. Is it worth recalling here that Belgium is in the top of the countries where the burden on work is among the highest? You are already struggling to solve all the issues and effectively combat European dumping, and you are doing worse by creating, within Belgium, dumping, i.e. intra-Belgian dumping. 90 per cent of the small self-employed earn less than €6,000 a year. The CNT recalled that 166,000 self-employed workers are now earning less than EUR 5,000 per year. They obviously have expenses and contributions. Besides this, they will have a competitive system with amounts of the same order, or even higher, but which will be deficalized and deparafiscalized. The NIS reported that while the number of complementary self-employed has increased in recent years, this is likely the latest increase. Indeed, the €6,000 defiscalised will have an impact on the number of complementary self-employed. What would it do for these independents to be subject to various tax and parafiscal charges when it is possible to earn higher amounts on average without being taxed or parafiscalized? As UNIZO says, you create a parallel circuit. How can we prevent an SME employee from competing with their boss? The beacons you're referring to are not going to be able to handle anything. These are activities of the private sphere. There are a large number of sectors at risk. That is the heart of our main criticism of this bill. Let us now turn to the issue of job creation and quality in certain targeted sectors. I'm going to focus on the non-market, but the trading sector is also concerned. Let us acknowledge that professionalization efforts have been made in both sectors. In the non-market sector, the aim was to recognize certain trades, but also to improve the quality of services to users. The National Labour Council also rejected the de-professionalisation induced by the scheme "in particular for activities subject to qualification conditions, quality standards, approvals, safety and protection rules for workers, consumers, the environment and customers, both for the commercial sector and for the social and public services sector". As far as non-marketers are concerned, this project really raises the question of the quality of care in areas such as early childhood care, the reception and accommodation of persons with disabilities, youth support, home care and assistance, especially for seniors, socio-professional integration, socio-cultural and social action, and I am moving on. The quality and safety of services are not guaranteed. I find this all the more serious as it concerns benefits for vulnerable people: children, the elderly and people with disabilities. I had raised this point at length in committee when you first introduced the "big" bill, which was a comprehensive package. It is true that the risks I am referring to here are expressed particularly in those sectors which fall within the competence of the Communities and the Regions, as the Council of State has clearly pointed out. The Council of State strongly recommended that you organize a consultation. We know the following: you "fibbled" in the list of activities – you basically added them – and then you came, when you turned this part of the bill and transposed it into a bill, adding an article to it. This article is Article 48. Even if you are aware of the fears of the non-market sector and of the long list of those I have just mentioned, especially in the Communities and the Regions, you have said that, basically, it was true: there are risks in relation to these vulnerable people, children, the elderly and the disabled. You then decided to add an article 48 to provide that the quality standards and requirements laid down by the Communities and the Regions, and the rules of ethics and accreditation criteria laid down by the competent legislator, remain applicable for the activities covered by this bill. This is an article that was not submitted to the Council of State because it was not included in the original draft and arrived at the time of transposition into the bill. I understand how you tried to bring things to life. It is indeed to be feared that, for example, where childcare is to be taken care of by qualified childcare workers, who are subject to continuing training obligations and meet definitive standards; or by independent welcoming women at home; or, in the context of out-of-school care, these activities may tomorrow be carried out by non-society workers, without necessarily being subject to the required qualification rules. You are going to tell me that no, because of Article 48, which obliges us to comply with the rules, standards and requirements of the Communities and Regions. But does Article 48 offer guarantees? I had doubts. I have therefore tabled an amendment to amend Article 48. It was referred to the Council of State in order to in some way oblige the Council of State to rule on the content of article 48. The return of the Council of State is very interesting. This is what he says about this famous amendment to amend Article 48: "With regard to regulations concerning the jurisdiction of entities other than the federal authority, the latter is not competent to determine the scope of those regulations." You are therefore not competent, Madam Minister. This article 48 was supposed to give you guarantees. You added it at the last minute, being aware of the risks that this project would entail for the sectors of activity that affect these vulnerable people (children, seniors, people with disabilities). Patatras, the Council of State does indeed consider, with the return of our amendments, that you are not competent! It is therefore for the federated entities and for them alone to ensure that the standards of quality and qualification of the staff are met. This therefore nullifies the guarantees that you have tried to bring. As I recall, your project comes into effect retroactively in February 2018, partly in any case. It will be released in July 2018. This does not, of course, leave time for the federated entities to check whether each of their laws, regulations, each of their decrees, adopted, allow them not to run a risk, or possibly to adapt them. It is obviously not possible in the Walloon Region and the French Community to adapt these laws in a few days. This is all the less so as your project comes into effect in February 2018. There is no guarantee that the EUR 6 000 exempt scheme will not affect the quality of the services rendered. This is problematic for many professionals who provide very good services and who are subject to a range of obligations, rules, standards, etc. This is all the more damaging because of the benefits offered to vulnerable and vulnerable people. For the CDH, this is the second big problem to report in your bill. The third point I would like to raise with you is the shift from voluntary work to occasional services between citizens and to voluntary work. You have come to explain to us that it was the High Council of Volunteers that had advocated for a specific status to be conferred on small missions carried out in the sector for social benefit. However, intellectual honesty leads me to answer that the Higher Council of Volunteers has never defended a regime that, as your scheme does, competes with volunteerism. He never advocated a fee-for-service voluntary service that was exempt from any charge. How are you going to allow small ASBLs, without great financial means, to find volunteers if they are unable to pay them? Of course, it is to be feared that several volunteers will do everything possible to be compensated through this new scheme, to the detriment of non-profit organisations with reduced resources. Each organization will choose the best status to optimize its system and maintain its appeal. Similarly, every volunteer will try - and it is quite legitimate - to benefit from this new system. In addition, non-market NSOs do not already receive much funding to carry out their missions under ideal conditions. I can assure you that having to go tomorrow to finance and reward volunteers to continue to benefit from the major contribution of volunteering will be extremely complicated, if not impossible. The commitment of volunteers will be made more difficult. The erosion of free volunteering is strongly to be feared. It is a project which, at the societal level, endangers spontaneous services of free assistance between citizens either by reducing the supply of free services or by putting pressure on beneficiaries, whose means of paying for the service are more limited. During all these debates and from the beginning of the work in committee, we came with alternatives. In the first phase, we have proposed limiting this mechanism to sport and possibly to part of the cultural sector and, at the same time, to have the sector-by-sector impact analysed in advance in order to examine the potential perverse effects and consequences of the application of your system, before considering any changes in the list of activities. As far as we are concerned, we would have made positive progress if the project had been strictly limited, in a first step, to the sports sector and part of the cultural sector. It is also a way, I think, of moving forward that could have been supported by the federated entities. This was rejected by the majority. We proposed it. We tabled it in the form of an amendment. We are tabling it again today in the form of an amendment. Of course, I don't have a lot of illusions. I understand, after your various speeches here in the gallery, that you want to continue with the whole list. It becomes a kind of flag-bearer of a party of this majority, even if in the backstage, eminent members repeat to me how true it is that this system will generate unfair competition and that it poses a real problem on the ground. It has become somewhat a form of ego struggle to say that no, we cannot start with a first step by introducing a positive dynamic, prior examination of the impact, sector by sector, with the social partners and analysis of how such a mechanism can or cannot be extended. For all these reasons, you will understand, we have too many fundamental objections to all the provisions of your bill. Your project would have been reduced intelligently in one or two sectors, so yes. But a project like this, with such unfair competition, with such risks for the non-market sector, with an approach to volunteering that I find extremely mercantile, we will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, at first glance your project may seem very nice. The aim was to enable workers and pensioners to earn €6,000 of tax-exempt supplementary income per year. The activities are also fun because they are intended to serve individuals or communities in the non-public or private sector. It will be possible to make small-scale services for remuneration without imposing sanctions for work in the dark, at least under certain conditions and within certain limits. But the critics quickly hit the press, in committee during the hearings and in the mailboxes, because we received many letters about it. On the francophone side, the representatives of the associations gathered in a platform entitled "Fifty shades of black", to denounce all the perverse effects of this project. You are accused of wanting to launder work in the dark by making it legal at the expense of traditional work. Experts expressed reservations about the financial impact of this project. Your firm has estimated that the measure will generate €10.7 million of social contributions in the self-employed (because 5,000 people who have not yet the independent status will access it), €55.8 million of additional indirect tax revenue and €25 million of tax and social revenue if the income threshold is exceeded by €6,000 per year. However, the FPS Finance concluded that there was a loss of social security contributions of EUR 109 million, assuming that the current 40 000 self-employed would use this provision and withdraw from this status, and a loss of tax revenue of EUR 42.5 million. In the last budgetary adjustment, the Court of Auditors again expressed reservations that the working assumptions were not verifiable. So you are embarking on a fiscal adventure, while in other areas, such as public health, you have imposed very drastic savings. But the fears are not just about the budgetary aspects. This project will deregulate entire parts of our economy. It has also been the subject of a unanimous negative opinion by the social partners, which is still quite rare. We've got to report it. At the hearings in committee on 18 December 2017, we heard that the employment of workers in the commercial, non-commercial, private and public sectors was threatened. We can easily understand that. If it becomes more interesting to work at 4/5th time with challenging extra work, it will motivate full-time workers to reduce their regular working time. We too want to reduce taxes on labour but through an ambitious tax reform and not in this way! This distortion of the labour market will undermine both the interests of our companies and the financing of social security. The volume of activities will decrease for the self-employed and for employers because it will move towards these other forms of work which do not contribute to the financing of social security. The representatives of the independents are particularly concerned about the risk of unfair competition. The National Union of Independents (SNI) and the Union of Middle Classes are not mistaken. Following a survey by the NIS of 504 independents active in these sectors, it appears that 93% are very concerned about unfair competition. Your project also competes with volunteerism. As early as International Volunteer Day, on December 5, 2017, the Francophone volunteer platform strongly criticized your approach. There was a requirement for volunteer representatives to make a clear distinction between this new status and volunteerism. They believe that acts of solidarity, so far free of charge, cannot now be traded. They therefore asked for a low tax on associative work. You did not follow them and they concluded that "you deny the added value of volunteering", as if it were just cheap labour. Competition may also be organised by collaborative platforms whose objectives will no longer have anything in common with occasional services to neighbours or friends. The parliamentarians of the majority of the French Community Commission, including those of DéFI of course, opposed this draft and even put a motion in conflict of interest. Both the COCOF and the Brussels Region have embarked on a concerted approach by proposing, Madam Minister, that you work constructively, both on the method of consultation and on the substance of this bill. It must be noted that neither the conflict-of-interest procedure nor the return of the file to a consultative committee between federated entities have led to concrete progress. The late consultation with the governments of the Communities has fortunately made it possible to correct some aberrations, since your initial project did not take into account the quality and accreditation criteria developed within the framework of the competences of the federated entities. Sometimes it only took account of the legislation in force in Flanders. By tabling amendments in the plenary of the House, and by seeking the opinion of the Council of State on these amendments, the opposition allowed the debate and the vote to be postponed in the hope that you would still be heard. We are still trying today to put two of them to the vote: Amendment No 43 and a new version of Amendment No 44. We wanted to put ourselves in a constructive dynamic to try to at least convince you of the need to limit the scope of the law to the only sector that is clearly seeking such a development, that of sport. However, we wish to provide for the possibility of extending the scope of application by royal decree to the other sectors of activity mentioned in article 24, but on two conditions. The first is that the extension must be the subject of social consultation, and the second is that it cannot generate unfair competition. We believe that social consultation is essential, in particular in order to check whether there is a real demand from the sector and to assess the impact on regular employment, since neither employers nor workers in the sector have an interest in reducing the employment in place. We have revised our amendment No 44 to take account of the opinion of the Council of State. We are therefore presenting you with a new version of this amendment. Amendment No. 43 introduces the notion of unfair competition into the bill in order to address the concerns of existing service providers. We define it as a practice contrary to the regulatory framework in force in the sector concerned and causing harm to one or more competitors. This may result, for example, in a significant decrease in turnover. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many of the reforms carried out under this legislation have been the subject of serious controversy, but here we are witnessing a real lifting of shields. It is with great conviction and on the basis of many arguments that if our amendments are rejected, we will vote against the draft which will de-professionalise many sectors. This law, which is intended to be restorative, is, in fact, absurd because it will never hold the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u8	Mr President, the 500 euro monthly defied are quite emblematic of this government's obstinacy to create precarious employment. As several colleagues have pointed out, the opposition to this project is very broad. One wonders where to find, outside the benches of the majority, people who favour it. A broad platform of the voluntary sector launched the initiative "Fifty shades of black" against this project; the Council of State and the Court of Auditors strongly criticized the measure; the CNT gave a negative opinion; UNIZO referred the matter to the Constitutional Court, etc. In short, the opposition is virtually unanimous outside the political world of this country. Why is this provision a bad thing? Firstly, because one million pensioners are on the labour market, in competition with employees, workers and self-employed. This will put pressure on social protection and wages. In many cases, this will be a situation of social dumping. Second, those who already work at 4/5th can compete with those who work full-time in the private sector. The Council of State considers that this is discrimination in that full-time workers cannot benefit from this measure. What prevents an employer from converting full-time contracts into 4/5th contracts? In addition, volunteer work will be put under pressure. Because who wants to volunteer, if you can win 6 000 euro defiscalized per year? In addition, instead of regulating digital platforms like Uber or Deliveroo more and making sure that workers get a decent social status, you do the opposite and prefer the extension of precarious work. Moreover, workers who perform debilitated benefits do not enjoy social rights. This goes beyond the social security system. Finally, these defi-calized benefits also go beyond the union framework. Since the persons concerned do not enjoy the status of employee, they risk being deprived if they are to be defended by trade unions. In short, it is clear that the PTB will vote against this untapped bill, an untapped bill that legalizes black work, an untapped bill that deregulates the labour market, an untapped bill that undermines social security, an untapped bill that organizes competition between workers, an untapped bill that organizes competition between workers and pensioners, an untapped bill that threatens volunteerism, an untapped bill that puts downward pressure on wages, an untapped bill that increases precarious jobs. But of all this, we are already used to it by this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, 500 euros per defied month, what a good idea! However, I note that you allow the benefit of this provision to employees, self-employed persons and pensioners. I am surprised and regret that you have not thought about including people with disabilities. The legislation on allowances for persons with disabilities takes account of the income of the disabled person or his or her spouse, which results in the reduction or even abolition of the allowance, as if, for a disabled person, the act of working removes his or her disability. Work is an important means for the disabled as part of their social integration. It is for this reason that I have tabled an amendment No. 57 to allow disabled persons who benefit from an allowance granted by the SPF's Directorate-General for People with Disabilities to benefit from this provision without any reduction in their allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be curious to see how far your sense of social will go! Minister, you had already excluded them from the first job provision. By supporting my amendment, you would give them hope and dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for all your comments. This law is important for the objective of enabling more socially useful work for which the current voluntary scheme is not sufficient, the so-called grey zone in the report of the Supreme Court. This grants a financial bonus without contributions, both tax and parafiscal. We give clubs and associations the opportunity to appeal to qualified persons. We also oppose the improper use of volunteering. Volunteering remains voluntary work, without remuneration. Therefore, I have no problem with the Red Cross saying that it remains voluntary work for them and that they do not intend to pay people for it. Nevertheless, we were asked to get rid of this grey zone. This is about making it possible to do limited tasks for which no one can be found on the regular market. Many examples have been given in committee. We know that the new system consists of three pillars: services provided by citizens to associations, services provided by citizens to citizens and the sharing economy, services provided through a recognised platform. Several comments have been made by members, including on the quality of the work carried out. Mr Vercamer and Mrs Fonck spoke about this. The Council of State states that the competent minister determines that quality. We have therefore repeated this in almost every article, that this concerns the competence of the Länder and that nothing will change the quality. I believe that this is enough to guarantee that quality. There was also the question of why this does not apply only to sport and culture. The Council of State says in its opinion on this point, and I quote the second part, Mrs Fonck, that this cannot actually be settled at KB for the other sectors and that it would probably also be discriminatory to limit this to sport and culture. There were also questions about the insurance. When Mr Van Quickenborne spoke, there were many questions and many examples. In the case of association work, there is in any case an additional insurance against accidents and physical damage. They already have associations. For occasional services there is the additional insurance for the tort. It is indeed a question of third party insurance. If you want to have your own damage covered, you have to provide for it yourself. I have been asked, among other things, by Mr Laaouej, how much such a policy costs. It comes in addition to family insurance. It would be a few tens of euros, certainly not of that kind, to subsist the 6 000 euros per year. Mrs. Kitir asked about the tool. I've been told that Sunday will be online. So you're gonna have to work Sunday. I assume this is provided for in your collective agreement. The tool will be downloaded via PC, tablet or smartphone. Associations are best able to log in via the RSZ or the FPS Finance. They must enter their national register number, the beginning and end of the contract of the person who wants to work, the remuneration that will be given and the insurance. After the transmission of the data, they will immediately receive an answer showing whether or not the work can be accepted as such work. Also for occasional services, any citizen can sign up via the eID and will be checked immediately after entering the beginning and end of the performance, the amount and the user. The user will therefore know in advance whether the work is covered by this legislation. Everything's electronic. They asked how that would be controlled. Control is possible. Controls are possible via three channels. First, all data are available in the central data bank. Targeted controls can be performed by a datamining device. Social inspection may also take place, for example on construction sites, and there is the possibility of lodging a complaint with the point of contact for fair competition. Mrs Caprasse, I do not want to deny volunteering. With colleagues, I introduced this law in the House in 2005 and I did not change my mind! I have already answered the questions about the limitations of the activity. Quality must also be monitored. In order to avoid unfair competition, there are sufficient thresholds and controls, as Mr Vercamer said. As with the flexi-jobs, we will not check after a year, but and route the route will monitor our services if there are any shifts. For example, we also need to check whether there are shifts from self-employed workers in the secondary occupation to the plus jobs. To this end, we organise a constant monitoring. The introduction of flexi-jobs also warned about derailments. So far we have seen the opposite, because there are only more jobs and the amount of activity is increasing. Probably some people deliberately choose to work four fifths to perform a flexi job. We see a shift of activity of less than 25 % and from 25 to 50 % to four fifths of activity. All in all there is a lot of resistance, as colleague Van Quickenborne mentioned. Any new status or intermediate status that gives greater flexibility to the labour market is incredibly resistant. That seems normal to me, because a change or reform without any resistance will hardly be worthy of the name'reform'. Mr. Van Hees, you said that... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u11	All right? Good! But for my part, I am really relieved that he will not vote in favour of this bill, otherwise it would have shocked me greatly! For the disabled, Mr Carcaci, it is true that I have not been able to find a consensus. There is also the possibility of requesting a tailor-made reintegration route, where it will also be possible to get back to work gradually. I intended to give them the opportunity, but I did not find a consensus on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for these answers. They are not, however, likely to overturn my deep conviction of the content of the draft, but you have provided some clarification and I thank you for that. You rightly recalled that you were a co-author of the 2005 Volunteer Rights Act. It happens that I was also there, and I remember that at the time we had long debates. Already, this law took five years to be passed. At the time, we had consulted a lot, thought about it, before we started any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u14	Five or six years... between five and six years, that's right. I remember that the debate then focused on the grey zone, particularly in sport (but not exclusively), and you were radically opposed to the amendments proposed to raise the ceiling for the permitted payments to EUR 5,000, or even EUR 2,500. And the philosophy of the authors of the law was at the time to define the rights of the basic volunteer, the one who works voluntarily, who devotes his time, his energy, his knowledge to the benefit of others, in the interests of solidarity, with a lump sum payment that compensates for real costs, but in a lump sum way. But here, with this project, you have evolved in the other direction since, compared to what you refused, now a good dozen years ago or a little more, you are now going much further. Finally, it is not abnormal that one can evolve according to a specific context. In my view, the need to address the grey area issue should not be confused with the objective of this project. As others have said, we are quite prepared to work on this problem, but what is being proposed to us today is much broader in scope. We have said everything that should be, both in committee and at this sitting. So we're not going to repeat it. On the merits, no argument has been able to convince us of the merits of your approach. Secondly, I would like to point out that both the voluntary bodies and the social partners are unanimously opposed to this project. Indeed, it will cause a lot of practical confusion between the true volunteers - who work for free -, those who benefit from a small payment as provided for in the law on volunteers and those who could become the casual workers mentioned in the text. Similarly, this could create a great deal of tension in associations, as some could pay more than others. This will probably discourage a lot of volunteers, while the trend is to make less use of them in small associations and sports clubs. On the socio-economic front, the problem of unfair competition with small independents and companies has been denounced by all. For all these reasons, he will not surprise you that our group will maintain its opposition to your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u15	Mr Delizée, I remember the discussions very well. I even remember where we were when we were talking about sport. It was Mr Alain Courtois from football, who then made the proposal. I don't know the football well, but I've learned a lot. I remember that then a colleague of former Minister of Social Affairs Onkelinx... I no longer knew the name of the employee at the time when the ceilings were not in favour either. It wasn't about 2 500 euros then, it was about well-paid jobs. She wanted much higher ceilings. That would have been an unemployment trap. We then held together to the amount presented by Mrs Onkelinx's colleague, Minister for Social Affairs. I was loyal back then, too. After all, I was not in favour of having such huge sums paid out to sports coaches or whatever is needed in the football business. I remember when Mr Courtois left very angry and slammed the door shut. Mr President, there may be a question and an answer for the new amendments tabled. It would be wise, given the particular situation and the period in which the legislative text ended up here, to vote on an article by article. This will also be clearer where appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u16	Madam Secretary, I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u17	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u18	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2839/18) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2839/18) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion". The draft law contains 191 articles. The bill has 191 sections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u19	• 30 – Evita Willaert cs (2839/20) Art. 12/1 (n) • 26 – Frédéric Daerden (2839/20) Art. 23 • 43 – Olivier Maingain cs (2839/20) Art. 24 • 31 – Evita Willaert cs (2839/20) • 22 – Frédéric Daerden (2839/20)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u20	• 55 – Benoît Dispa cs (2839/21)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u21	• 56 – Benoît Dispa cs (2839/21)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u22	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments tabled and all the articles and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and all the articles reserved as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u23	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and all the articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u24	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u25	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u26	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u27	Mr Thiébaut, you are also registered to speak on behalf of your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u28	Mr. Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a word about this bill. I'm going to go to the essentials. So I will not go back to the many technical changes that go through it, and with which we have no problem. The most important thing for my group is three points. First, section 4 allows home search in case of serious and imminent danger. This is not the first time this government has been interested in the possibility of entering people's homes for administrative police reasons at any time of day and night. That's still what we're planning to do here. This is certainly done under a better pretext than when dealing with people hosting migrants, but it is done with, in our view, and finally in the sense of the institutions which have given an opinion, too limited guidance. This is done by leaving all responsibility to the officer facing the situation, without even providing for the formal possibility of obtaining the consent of the occupant. And it is done by leaving the possibility of judicial review of the situation only a posteriori. That is, when the harm is done, and provided that the victim of an error of appreciation goes to justice. That is why we tabled amendments in committee, which aim to narrow the scope of this provision to the best possible extent. We are going to reposition them today, hoping that in the time of reflection, the majority will measure the extent to which it is an essential guard, while the minister announces that there will be no circular to frame the provision. Secondly, it is articles 15 and 16 concerning incompatibilities for the police. The text of the current law is clear. The principled position is that of a regime of incompatibility which is laid down by law. We have heard some reassuring comments in committee about the fact that it will remain impossible for a police officer to stand for election. But for the rest, we are still moving towards a situation of uncertainty as to whether or not to combine authorized functions. In this context, officers need legal certainty. The system you propose leaves the door open to the arbitrariness in the head of the hierarchy. This does not seem desirable to anyone. Thirdly, the question of the intervention of foreign special units in our territory. As has already been said, we can fully understand that, in exceptional circumstances, the use of support for foreign services can be justified, even if it is indispensable. It is appropriate that this possibility should not be used as an excuse to limit the means necessary for the proper functioning of our own DSU throughout the national territory and as soon as possible. We deeply regret that oversight bodies such as the P Committee have no discretion as to the possible controls of operations carried out by foreign agents on Belgian territory. In this regard, responses to courts and tribunals do not satisfy us. For these reasons, my group will not support the bill before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u29	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u30	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3089/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3089/4) The draft law has 34 articles. The bill has 34 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u31	• 6 - Eric Thiébaut cs (3089/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u32	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u33	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 4 and 31. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 5 to 30, 32 to 34.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u34	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u35	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nahima Lanjri, Franky Demon, Veerle Heeren.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u36	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Katja Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u37	Mr President, I will focus on the chapter of the peacekeepers. For us, peacekeepers are not meant to fill the police shortage. They are not meant to be sub-police officers, police officers at the discount. They are a front-line corps whose main mission is defined as follows on the site of the Interior: "Peacekeepers have the task of increasing the sense of security of the citizen by their dissuasive presence in the neighbourhoods. They are the relay between the municipality and the population and inform the competent municipal services or the police of the problems they are facing." As such, we must challenge ourselves with everything that would allow the slide that I have just denounced. The challenge here is to tighten the conditions for access to this function, which is not wrong. Some skills are needed to fulfil their role, but the question is how to establish them. As is well known, the Court of Auditors, in a report on the selection tests in the Federal Police, stressed the questionable nature of personality tests. It will also be recalled that almost 50% of police candidates fail these tests. The relevance of these tests can therefore be questioned. In any event, it also seems to us that we remain hungry as to what justifies the introduction of these tests at the entrance and that we are not provided with statistics on complaints of possible inappropriate behaviour in the occupational category concerned. A condition is added to the public policy profile while there are already requirements for the absence of a criminal record. The question that arises seems to us to be the following: do we wish to exclude certain social categories from this profession of security? Do public services feel so unable to train their own agents that they prefer to put barriers to entry rather than strong training for candidates? In the area of training, would it not be appropriate to have trade unions sit in examinations and tests as observers, in accordance with the 1974 law? This provision is therefore a real source of concern and the organisations representing workers have not failed to criticise it in remarks made on the common front. I would also point out that there is still no uniform status for peacekeepers! For all these reasons, my group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the good aspects of this draft law. The creation of an agency for volunteers in the fire zones is a good thing. The input and influx of volunteers and cooperation with professional firefighters are important factors. In the past, I have intervened on several occasions during discussions on this matter in the Committee on the Interior. This is a step in the right direction if we want to maintain a sufficient influx of volunteers and keep them on board. After all, the combination of professional career, private life and contribution as a firefighter volunteer is not evident. The volunteers deserve all the support they can get. However, the amendment of the law of 8 June 1998 on radio communications is a missed opportunity. The problems with the ASTRID network following the attacks on 22 March are well known. The draft law provides for an additional obligation in the form of an opinion of the Security Committee on cover in the case of large construction and infrastructure works. In the light of the finding that nothing changes on the substance, the additional obligation on the part of the builder is regrettable. ASTRID is the general communication network and its high cost currently prevents some services from joining it. The Minister may point out that much has already been done in the meantime to improve the ASTRID network, but I continue to receive conflicting messages on the ground. As far as the provisions on Community guards are concerned, it is good that there is more clarity and uniformity. As regards the identification of traffic breaches, given the nature of the task, for example the power to determine and the possible conflict situations, it is also good that additional conditions of morality are laid down, but our group regrets that this means that police work is being outsourced again. It is also a good thing that this is done in relation to the Crisis Centre, provided that the necessary resources are made available. The same applies to the measure of shortening the deadline for the strategic analyses by the OCAD. It is important that these bodies are able to cope with the additional workload and that resources are provided for this. This is why our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u39	Mr President, as part of the discussion of this draft law, we would like to pay particular attention to the importance of volunteers in the fire services. Our group is particularly pleased with the government's initiative to make volunteers within the fire zones part of the organisation through the operation of an agency for volunteers in the fire zones. This will lead to a structural representation within the area of the important voluntary service. Over time, it should be assessed whether the role and operation of this Agency should or could not be extended. In any case, it is an acknowledgement of the work of the many volunteers in our fire services. In any case, we hope that it will be an incentive for voluntary work which, as we all know, will be put under considerable pressure in many areas. Today, the media reported a serious shortage of voluntary firefighters. As in other sectors, we see that in this group, too, the ageing of the population has an impact on the outflow of the current workforce. They must, of course, be able to be replaced and those places filled, taking into account the higher demands made by the new statute for those people, is not a simple quest in our view. The combination of work, family and volunteering is not an easy task either, but many people do it with a lot of surrender, passion and duty awareness. The creation of the volunteer office should allow those involved to participate in the organisation of their area of assistance. We hope that this will benefit the involvement of the volunteers, but also the awareness in the corps leadership that these people are an essential link in their corps, so that they will in future take even more account of the specific needs of them. We must also work towards a good dialogue between employers, workers and the government in order to give more breathing space to the combination with this particular volunteering. We therefore call on the social partners and the government to strengthen the dialogue on the combination of work and volunteering.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u40	Mr President, I too would like to highlight a point in the draft law before us which contains various provisions. The fire department consists of more than 12,000 volunteers. It is no secret that volunteers were given an underrated role in the initial firefighter reform of years ago, while no one should underestimate their unconditional commitment, the experience they often bring from their other profession, their local commitment and the fact that they often have a passion for this work. Today they are recognized. From today on, they get a loud voice. Each aid zone will set up a permanent office for its volunteers. They will be given extra support by that agency, something for which the FVO has been pursuing and advocating for a very long time. Mr President, that will not only attract new volunteers, new candidates will also be accompanied in obtaining their federal fitness certificate. This agency will even intercede between the volunteer and his employer. The chairman of the Association of Flemish Firefighters and some colleagues are here to experience this moment. I would also like to thank them for their perseverance, their constructive participation and their unwavering commitment. They're always looking for new motivated people. By the way, on the website www.ikwordbrandweer.be you will find all the information. It gives me enormous confidence, in addition to our professional firefighters, to always be able to count on these priceless volunteers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u41	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u42	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3127/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3127/3) The draft law contains 71 articles. The bill has 71 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u43	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u44	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Ine Somers, Dirk Janssens, DamienThiéry, Yoleen Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u45	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2474/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2474/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u46	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u47	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u48	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u49	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Siegfried Bracke, Peter De Roover
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u50	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u51	Mr President, like my colleagues, I am referring to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u52	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendment very briefly. We believe that the text is missing. The legislation on the deontological committee is amended, but no right is granted to a third party to inform the committee of possible breaches of deontology and ethics or of conflicts of interest by public operators. This seems to us to be a gap in the context of ethical accountability. That is why I have tabled an amendment. It is largely similar to the amendment tabled by the N-VA colleagues when the Federal Deontological Commission was set up as part of the sixth state reform. Their concerns were the same at the time. I assume that there has been no change in this area and that they still share these concerns. I am therefore counting on their support for the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u53	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u54	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2098/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2098/9) The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u55	Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 9 - Barbara Pas (2098/10) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u56	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u57	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 2 and 4 to 8, as well as the Annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u58	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u59	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: - 816: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Leen Dierick, Philippe Pivin, Servais Verherstraeten. - 1031: Conseil Degroote, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Christoph D'Haese, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter, Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u60	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Özen and Mr Lachaert and Mr Van Hecke. They shall all refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u61	Mr President, the legislative proposal before us has been going on for decades. I insist on dropping Michel Doomst's name. He started it once, here in the federal parliament. I have taken the initiative of him and we have wrestled with it for four years in this legislature too. I have no doubt that Mr Degroote will deal with the matter in greater detail in the near future. I would like to present the proposal to those Members who are currently or in a subsequent legislative term ships or mayors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u62	Mr President, I have also prepared a brief speech. The legislative proposal addresses the problem that legal entities governed by public law cannot be subpoenaed, whereas they can be subpoenas. As the uncertainty in this respect led to a lot of unrest among local managers and in certain situations it was difficult for a civil party to obtain compensation, the question arose from the VVSG and the insurance sector to address this. A new regulation was drawn up on the basis of various proposals. In the end, the choice of subpoena was made at the prosecution's office, which may choose either to subpoena the legal person or to subpoena the mandating officer. For the bourgeois party, the possibility of subpoenaing the legal person is the benefit of continuity; a mandator can change any legislative term. In addition, the approach of the various proposals was that a mandataire would not just end up on the penalty bench, so that he can sleep more at ease. Nevertheless, there remains a possibility to subpoena the mandator. The proposals differed somewhat from each other in this respect. Nevertheless, instead of bickering, we have reached a compromise. All the parties involved deserve praise and appreciation. The Council of State and experts, who were heard, also felt that the choice should be made by the Public Prosecutor. However, we have provided for an evaluation period. After some time it will indeed be examined whether the proposal meets our plan. An amendment was also tabled which would allow the municipal authorities not to be fined but to be condemned to a simple declaration of guilt. In short, the text represents a significant step forward. I would like to thank all the Members who contributed to the drafting of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u63	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u64	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (816/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (816/9) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u65	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Lijnen, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u67	Mr President, we have been advocating this for a long time. It is therefore very important that, for all kinds of target groups facing a restriction, a visual limitation or other handicap which does not allow them to access information by electronic means should now be made available to them through the present obligation in the sphere of government but also in a fairly large perimeter. We have worked a lot around the AnySurfer label or the BlindSurfer label. They will have to unlock the websites according to the latest standards in the future. They will also have to do so for mobile applications. This means real aid for people with disabilities. We are therefore very pleased that the government and Parliament have been able to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u68	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u69	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3159/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3159/4) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u70	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u71	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u73	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3071/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3071/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Crusnière and Gilkinet, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u76	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3093/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (393/4) The draft law has 129 articles. The bill has 129 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u77	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Van Biesen and Mr Gilkinet. They shall refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? (No) Is anyone asking for the floor? (Non) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u79	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3100/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3100/3) The draft law has 31 articles. The bill has 31 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u80	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Deseyn and Mr Klaps. They shall refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? (No) Is anyone asking for the floor? (Non) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u82	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3150/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3150/3) The draft law has 104 articles. The bill has 104 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u84	By letter of 25 June 2018, Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, stated that there was a vacancy as a councilor following the death of Mr Didier Claisse, a member of the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. By letter dated 25 June 2018, Mr Philippe Roland, the first President of the Court of Auditors, informed the Court that a post of adviser was vacant following the death of Mr Didier Claisse, a member of the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the Establishment of the Court of Auditors, the Boards are appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new councillor for the French Chamber of Auditors. In accordance with article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors, advisers are appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. The Chamber must therefore appoint a new adviser to the French Chamber of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 July 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 July 2018, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Moniteur.. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u85	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 3 May 2018, a third call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 May 2018 for the mandates of first and second alternate of a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of May 3, 2018, a third call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of May 17, 2018 for the terms of first and second alternate members of a Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. The following application was made for the mandate of First Deputy Member (F) of the Committee I: Mr Thibaut Vandamme, Deputy Prosecutor des Konings (Luxembourg District). The following candidacy was submitted for the term of first alternate member (F) of the R Committee: Mr Thibaut Vandamme, Deputy Prosecutor of the King (district of Luxembourg). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I propose that Mr Thibaut Vandamme's candidacy be given to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I propose that you forward Mr Thibaut Vandamme's candidacy to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u86	The effective members of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision were appointed at the plenary session of 26 May 2016. The actual members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services were appointed during the May 26, 2018 plenary session. The Chamber should now appoint four first alternates (2 N + 2 F) and four second alternates (2 N + 2 F). The Chamber must now appoint four first alternates (2 F + 2 N) and four second alternates (2 F + 2 N). The following applications were submitted for the mandates of first and second alternate members: The following nominations were made for the terms of first and second alternate members: Candidate First Deputy Vice-President: French-speaking candidate: Mr Laurent Van Doren, Chief Constable of the PZ Orne-Thyle; Member of the Subcommittee on Judicial Police on the Standing Committee of the Local Police. Mr Laurent Van Doren was appointed a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services on 16 November 2017. First alternate candidate of the Vice-President: Francophone candidate: Mr Laurent Van Doren, Chief of Staff of the ZP Orne-Thyle; member of the Sub-Committee on Judicial Police to the Standing Committee on Local Police. Laurent Van Doren was appointed, on November 16, 2017, as a Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Candidates first or second alternates: Dutch-speaking candidates: - Ms Régine Claeys, judge in the Dutch-speaking family court in Brussels - Mr Peter De Smet, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent; Deputy member of the Committee P - Mr Filip Jodts, District Attorney at the Court of First Instance, West Flanders, Veurne Division - Mr Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President at the Court of First Instance of East Flanders; Member of the Supreme Court of Justice. French-speaking candidates: - Mr Olivier Mazy, second alternate member of the P Committee; attorney at the P Committee - Mr Vincent Stragier, Security Advisor to the Prime Minister; Secretary of the National Security Council - Heer Thibaut Vandamme, substituut-procureur des Konings (Luxemburg district). Mr Thibaut Vandamme was also a candidate for the mandate of First Deputy Member (F) of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. First or second alternate candidates: Dutch-speaking applicants: - Ms Régine Claeys, judge of the Dutch-speaking family court in Brussels - Mr. Peter De Smet, General Counsel at the Ghent Court of Appeal; alternate member of the P Committee - Mr. Filiep Jodts, Divisional Prosecutor, West Flanders Court of First Instance, Furnes Section - Mr. Jan Van den Berghe, Vice-President of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders; member of the Higher Council of Justice. Francophone applicants: - Mr Olivier Mazy, second alternate member of the P Committee; - Mr. Vincent Stragier, Security Adviser to the Prime Minister; Secretary to the National Security Council - Mr. Thibaut Vandamme, Deputy Prosecutor of the King (district of Luxembourg). Mr. Thibaut Vandamme is also a candidate for the term of first alternate member (F) of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. Candidates first alternate: Dutch candidate: Mr Frank Schuermans, Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent; Deputy member of the Occupational Body on Safety Authorisations, Safety Certificates and Safety Advice; Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information. French-speaking candidate: Ms Morgane Lobjois, Head of Office of the Mayor of the City of Brussels; President of the Brussels-Capital Police Zone. First alternate candidates: Dutch-speaking candidate: Mr Frank Schuermans, Advocate General of the Ghent Court of Appeal, alternate member of the Board of Appeal on clearances, certificates and security notices; member of the Police Information Review Body. Francophone candidate: Ms Morgane Lobjois, Chief of Staff of the Townmaster of Brussels; President of the Brussels-Capital Ixelles Police Zone. Candidate second alternate: French-speaking candidate: Ms Déborah Dewulf, adviser to the Walloon Prime Minister's Office. Second alternate candidate: Francophone candidate: Deborah Dewulf, advisor to the cabinet of the Minister-President Wallon. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 July 2018, the curriculum vitae of the candidates will be delivered to the political groups and the candidates will be heard by the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 July 2018, the curricula vitae of the candidates will be transmitted to the political groups and the follow-up committee of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R will hold the hearing of the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u87	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (3177/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (3177/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u88	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u89	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 July 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sophie De Wit cs) amending the law of 17 May 2006 concerning the external legal status of the sentenced persons to a custodial sentence and the rights granted to the victim in the context of the procedures for the enforcement of penalties, as regards the State of repetition, No. 3213/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Karine Lalieux, Mr Véronique Caprasse, Mr Muriel Gerkens and Mr Karin Jiroflée and Mr Marco Van Hees) aimed at clarifying the voluntary termination of pregnancy from the Criminal Code, No. 3215/1; - the bill (Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Carina Van Cauter cs) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No. 3216/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u90	- the legislative proposal (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the Law of 21 March 2007 regulating the placement and use of surveillance cameras for the purpose of improving the consistency of the text and its compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), No. 3217/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u91	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Franky Demon) on a generally reduced VAT rate for youth infrastructure, No. 3218/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u92	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 July 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Sophie De Wit et al.) amending the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty and the rights granted to the victim under the terms of the sentence, with regard to the status of recidivism, No. 3213/1; - the bill (Ms. Karine Lalieux, Véronique Caprasse, Muriel Gerkens and Karin Jiroflée and Mr. Marco Van Hees) to remove the voluntary termination of pregnancy from the Criminal Code, No. 3215/1; - the draft law (Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Carina Van Cauter et al.) on voluntary termination of pregnancy, No 3216/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u93	- the draft law (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the Act of 21 March 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras with a view to improving the consistency of the text and its consistency with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), No 3217/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u94	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Franky Demon) to introduce a reduced VAT rate for the infrastructure of youth organisations, No 3218/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u95	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u96	This inquiry was developed in the public meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 27 June 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Social Affairs Commission of 27 June 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 265/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 265/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u97	Yes [[74]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u98	Mr President, I have agreed on a pairing agreement with Mr Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u99	Mr President, despite the late hour and despite all the efforts made by a large number of my colleagues today, on the work that has taken place, I must note that the majority clearly do not reach the number of 76 members present. I am surprised, and I would like to know what is happening, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u100	Mr Laaouej, I can only repeat the rules of the game, that is, there is no quorum for the majority. The quorum concerns the House. This quorum shall be 76 members present. As long as we are numerous enough to vote on a regular basis... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u101	Mr President, I would like you to suspend the sitting. One of my colleagues will be here in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u102	The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u103	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u104	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (3177/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (3177/2) Aantal stemmen 106 Number of voters Valid votes 106 Votes valables Perfect majority 54 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u107	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u108	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3180/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3180/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u109	Vote on Amendment No 30 by Evita Willaert cs on the inscription. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Evita Willaert cs on the title. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 51 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Article 1. (2839/18) Vote on Article 1. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total Article 1 has therefore been adopted. Accordingly, article 1 was adopted. Mrs Nahima Lanjri voted in favour. Vote on Article 2. (2839/18) Vote on Article 2. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 4 Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, Article 2 has been rejected. Article 2 is therefore rejected. Mrs An Capoen and Mrs Griet Smaers and Mr Veli Yüksel voted against. Vote on Article 3. (2839/18) Vote on Article 3. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u110	Consequently, Article 3 has been rejected. Article 3 is therefore rejected. Vote on Article 4. (2839/18) Vote on Article 4. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u111	Consequently, Article 4 was rejected. Article 4 is therefore rejected. Vote on Article 5. (2839/18) Vote on Article 5. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u112	Consequently, Article 5 was rejected. Article 5 is therefore rejected. Vote on Article 6. (2839/18) Vote on Article 6. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u113	Consequently, Article 6 was rejected. Article 6 is therefore rejected. Vote on Article 7. (2839/18) Vote on Article 7. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u114	Consequently, Article 7 has been rejected. Article 7 is therefore rejected. Vote on Article 8. (2839/18) Vote on Article 8. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u115	Consequently, Article 8 has been rejected. Article 8 is therefore rejected. Vote on Article 9. (2839/18) Vote on Article 9. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u116	Consequently, Article 9 was rejected. Article 9 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 10. (2839/18) Vote on Article 10. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u117	Consequently, Article 10 was rejected. Article 10 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 11. (2839/18) Vote on Article 11. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u118	Consequently, Article 11 was rejected. Article 11 is therefore rejected. Vote on Article 12. (2839/18) Vote on Article 12. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u119	Consequently, Article 12 was rejected. Article 12 is therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Frédéric Daerden to insert an article 12/1(n). (2839/20) Vote on amendment No. 26 by Frédéric Daerden to insert an article 12/1(n). (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Article 13. (2839/18) Vote on Article 13. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, Article 13 was rejected. Article 13 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 14. (2839/18) Vote on Article 14. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u120	Consequently, Article 14 was rejected. Article 14 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 15. (2839/18) Vote on Article 15. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u121	Consequently, Article 15 was rejected. Article 15 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 16. (2839/18) Vote on Article 16. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u122	Consequently, Article 16 was rejected. Article 16 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 17. (2839/18) Vote on Article 17. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u123	Consequently, Article 17 was rejected. Article 17 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 18. (2839/18) Vote on Article 18. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u124	Consequently, Article 18 was rejected. Article 18 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 19. (2839/18) Vote on Article 19. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u125	Consequently, Article 19 was rejected. Article 19 is therefore rejected. Vote on Article 20. (2839/18) Vote on Article 20. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u126	Consequently, Article 20 was rejected. Article 20 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 21. (2839/18) Vote on Article 21. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u127	Consequently, Article 21 was rejected. Article 21 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 22. (2839/18) Vote on Article 22. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u128	Consequently, Article 22 was rejected. Article 22 is therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 23. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 23. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 33 Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 23. (2839/18) Vote on Article 23. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 77 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, Article 23 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 23 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Evita Willaert cs on article 24. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 24. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 50 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Ms. Françoise Schepmans voted against. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Frédéric Daerden on Article 24. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Frédéric Daerden to Article 24. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u129	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 44 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 24. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 24. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u130	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 53 by Catherine Fonck on article 24. (2839/21) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Catherine Fonck to Article 24. (2839/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u131	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir on article 24. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 1 to Article 24 by Meryame Kitir. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u132	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Meryame Kitir on article 24. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 2 to Article 24 by Meryame Kitir. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u133	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Meryame Kitir on article 24. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Meryame Kitir to Article 24. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u134	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 24. (2839/18) Vote on Article 24. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 78 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, Article 24 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 24 was adopted. Georges Dallemagne voted against. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Evita Willaert cs to insert an article 24/2(n). (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Evita Willaert cs to insert an Article 24/2(n). (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck on article 25. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck to Article 25. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 50 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 25. (2839/18) Vote on Article 25. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote14) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 25 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 25 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Meryame Kitir on article 26. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Meryame Kitir to Article 26. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Christoph D'Haese voted against. Vote on Rule 26. (2839/18) Vote on Article 26. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 26 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 26 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Frédéric Daerden on Article 27. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Frédéric Daerden to Article 27. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 27. (2839/18) Vote on Article 27. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 27 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 27 was adopted. Vote on Rule 28. (2839/18) Vote on Article 28. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u135	As a result, Article 28 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 28 was adopted. Vote on Rule 29. (2839/18) Vote on Article 29. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u136	As a result, Article 29 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 29 was adopted. Vote on Rule 30. (2839/18) Vote on Article 30. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u137	Consequently, Article 30 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 30 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Meryame Kitir to omit Article 31. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Meryame Kitir to delete Article 31. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 31. (2839/18) Vote on Article 31. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, Article 31 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 31 was adopted. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux voted in favour. Mr Jean-Marc Nollet voted against. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Meryame Kitir to omit Article 32. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Meryame Kitir to delete Article 32. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 32. (2839/18) Vote on Article 32. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 32 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 32 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Frédéric Daerden on Article 33. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Frédéric Daerden to Article 33. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 132 Total Mr Stefaan Vercamer voted against. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 33. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 33. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u138	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 33. (2839/18) Vote on Article 33. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, Article 33 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 33 was adopted. Vote on Rule 34. (2839/18) Vote on Article 34. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u139	Consequently, Article 34 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 34 was adopted. Vote on Rule 35. (2839/18) Vote on Article 35. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u140	Consequently, Article 35 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 35 was adopted. Vote on Rule 36. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 36. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u141	Consequently, Article 36 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 36 was adopted. Vote on Rule 37. (2839/18) Vote on Article 37. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u142	Consequently, Article 37 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 37 was adopted. Vote on Rule 38. (2839/18) Vote on Article 38. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u143	Consequently, Article 38 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 38 was adopted. Vote on Rule 39. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 39. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u144	Consequently, Article 39 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 39 was adopted. Vote on Rule 40. (2839/18) Vote on Article 40. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u145	Consequently, Article 40 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 40 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 35 of Evita Willaert cs for the omission of Articles 41 to 46. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Evita Willaert cs to delete Articles 41 to 46. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 41. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Evita Willaert cs to Rule 41. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 50 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 54 by Catherine Fonck cs on article 41. (2839/21) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Catherine Fonck cs to Rule 41. (2839/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u146	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Meryame Kitir on article 41. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 41. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u147	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Meryame Kitir on article 41. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 41. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u148	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Meryame Kitir on article 41. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 41. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u149	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Meryame Kitir on article 41. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 41. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u150	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Meryame Kitir on article 41. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 41. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u151	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Frédéric Daerden on Article 41. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Frédéric Daerden to Rule 41. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u152	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 41. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 41. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 41 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 41 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Meryame Kitir on article 42. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 42. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 49 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Meryame Kitir on article 42. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 42. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u153	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck on article 42. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 42. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u154	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 42. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 42. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 42 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 42 was adopted. Vote on Rule 43. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 43. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u155	Consequently, Article 43 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 43 was adopted. Vote on Rule 44. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 44. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u156	As a result, Article 44 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 44 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Meryame Kitir on article 45. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 45. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 38 by Evita Willaert cs on article 45. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Evita Willaert cs to Rule 45. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u157	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 45. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 45. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[74]] Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 129 Total Ms Isabelle Galant voted in favour and Ms Laurette Onkelinx voted against. Mr Van der Donkt also voted in favour. Consequently, Article 45 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 45 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Meryame Kitir on article 46. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 46. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 51 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 46. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 46. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 46 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 46 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Evita Willaert cs to insert an article 46/1(n). (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Evita Willaert cs to insert a Rule 46/1(n). (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 133 Total Mr Benoit Hellings voted in favour. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Meryame Kitir on article 47. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 47. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 47. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 47. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 77 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, Article 47 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 47 was adopted. Mrs Muriel Gerkens voted against. Mr Peter Luykx voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck on Article 48. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 48. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 50 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 48. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 48. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 48 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 48 was adopted. Vote on Rule 49. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 49. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u158	As a result, Article 49 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 49 was adopted. Vote on Rule 50. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 50. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u159	Consequently, Article 50 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 50 was adopted. Vote on Rule 51. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 51. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u160	As a result, Article 51 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 51 was adopted. Vote on Rule 52. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 52. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u161	As a result, Article 52 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 52 was adopted. Vote on Rule 53. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 53. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u162	As a result, Article 53 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 53 was adopted. Vote on Rule 54. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 54. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u163	As a result, Article 54 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 54 was adopted. Vote on Rule 55. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 55. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u164	As a result, Article 55 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 55 was adopted. Vote on Rule 56. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 56. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u165	As a result, Article 56 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 56 was adopted. Vote on Rule 57. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 57. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u166	Consequently, Article 57 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 57 was adopted. Vote on Rule 58. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 58. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u167	Consequently, Article 58 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 58 was adopted. Vote on Rule 59. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 59. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u168	Consequently, Article 59 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 59 was adopted. Vote on Rule 60. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 60. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u169	Consequently, Article 60 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 60 was adopted. Vote on Rule 61. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 61. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u170	Consequently, Article 61 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 61 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Meryame Kitir on article 62. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 62. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 62. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 62. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 62 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 62 was adopted. Vote on Rule 63. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 63. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u171	As a result, Article 63 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 63 was adopted. Vote on Rule 64. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 64. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u172	Consequently, Article 64 was adopted, with an improvement in the text. Accordingly, article 64 was adopted, with a correction to the text. Vote on Rule 65. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 65. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u173	Consequently, Article 65 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 65 was adopted. Vote on Rule 66. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 66. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 66 was rejected. Article 66 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 67. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 67. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u174	Consequently, Article 67 was rejected. Article 67 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 68. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 68. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u175	Consequently, Article 68 was rejected. Article 68 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 69. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 69. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u176	Consequently, Article 69 was rejected. Article 69 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 70. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 70. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u177	Consequently, Article 70 was rejected. Article 70 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 71. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 71. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u178	Consequently, Article 71 was rejected. Article 71 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 72. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 72. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u179	Consequently, Article 72 was rejected. Article 72 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 73. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 73. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u180	Consequently, Article 73 was rejected. Article 73 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 74. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 74. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u181	Consequently, Article 74 was rejected. Article 74 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 75. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 75. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u182	Consequently, Article 75 was rejected. Article 75 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 76. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 76. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u183	Consequently, Article 76 was rejected. Article 76 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 77. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 77. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u184	Consequently, Article 77 was rejected. Article 77 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 78. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 78. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u185	Consequently, Article 78 was rejected. Article 78 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 79. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 79. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u186	Consequently, Article 79 was rejected. Article 79 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 80. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 80. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u187	Consequently, Article 80 was rejected. Article 80 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 81. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 81. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u188	Consequently, Article 81 was rejected. Article 81 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 82. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 82. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u189	Consequently, Article 82 was rejected. Article 82 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 83. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 83. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u190	Consequently, Article 83 was rejected. Article 83 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 84. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 84. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u191	Consequently, Article 84 was rejected. Article 84 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 85. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 85. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u192	Consequently, Article 85 was rejected. Article 85 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 86. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 86. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u193	Consequently, Article 86 was rejected. Article 86 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 87. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 87. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u194	Consequently, Article 87 was rejected. Article 87 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 88. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 88. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u195	Consequently, Article 88 was rejected. Article 88 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 89. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 89. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u196	Consequently, Article 89 was rejected. Article 89 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 90. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 90. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u197	Consequently, Article 90 was rejected. Article 90 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 91. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 91. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u198	Consequently, Article 91 was rejected. Article 91 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 92. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 92. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u199	Consequently, Article 92 was rejected. Article 92 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 93. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 93. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u200	Consequently, Article 93 was rejected. Article 93 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 94. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 94. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u201	Consequently, Article 94 was rejected. Accordingly, Article 94 is rejected. Vote on Rule 95. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 95. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u202	Consequently, Article 95 was rejected. Article 95 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 96. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 96. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u203	Consequently, Article 96 was rejected. Accordingly, Article 96 is rejected. Vote on Rule 97. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 97. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u204	Consequently, Article 97 was rejected. Article 97 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 98. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 98. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u205	Consequently, Article 98 was rejected. Article 98 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 99. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 99. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u206	Consequently, Article 99 was rejected. Article 99 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 100. (2839/18) Vote on Article 100. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u207	Consequently, Article 100 was rejected. Article 100 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 101. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 101. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u208	Consequently, Article 101 was rejected. Article 101 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 102. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 102. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u209	Consequently, Article 102 was rejected. Article 102 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 103. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 103. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u210	Consequently, Article 103 was rejected. Article 103 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 104. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 104. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u211	Consequently, Article 104 was rejected. Article 104 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 105. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 105. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u212	Consequently, Article 105 was rejected. Article 105 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 106. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 106. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u213	Consequently, Article 106 was rejected. Article 106 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 107. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 107. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u214	Consequently, Article 107 was rejected. Article 107 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 108. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 108. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u215	Consequently, Article 108 was rejected. Article 108 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 109. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 109. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u216	Consequently, Article 109 was rejected. Article 109 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 110. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 110. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u217	Consequently, Article 110 was rejected. Article 110 is therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 57 by Aldo Carcaci on Article 111. (2839/23) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Aldo Carcaci to Rule 111. (2839/23) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes 1 Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 111. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 111. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 111 was rejected. Article 111 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 112. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 112. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u218	Consequently, Article 112 was rejected. Article 112 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 113. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 113. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u219	Consequently, Article 113 was rejected. Article 113 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 114. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 114. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u220	Consequently, Article 114 was rejected. Article 114 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 115. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 115. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u221	Consequently, Article 115 was rejected. Article 115 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 116. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 116. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u222	Consequently, Article 116 was rejected. Article 116 is therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Meryame Kitir on article 117. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 117. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Aldo Carcaci has a vote and has therefore abstained. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 117. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 117. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u223	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 117. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 117. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 45) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 117 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 117 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Meryame Kitir on article 118. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 118. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 46) Yes 51 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 118. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 118. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 47) Yes 78 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, Article 118 was adopted. Accordingly, article 118 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Meryame Kitir on article 119. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 119. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 48) Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 119. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 119. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 49) Yes 78 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, Article 119 was adopted. Accordingly, article 119 was adopted. Mrs Özlem Özen voted against. Vote on Amendment No 20 from Meryame Kitir to the deletion of Article 120. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Meryame Kitir to delete Rule 120. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 50) Yes 50 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Georges Gilkinet cs to omit Article 120. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Rule 120. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u224	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 55 of Benoît Dispa cs leaving out Article 120. (2839/21) Vote on amendment No. 55 by Benoît Dispa cs to delete Rule 120. (2839/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u225	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 120. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 120. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 51) Yes 77 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, Article 120 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 120 was adopted. Vote on Rule 121. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 121. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u226	Consequently, Article 121 was adopted. Accordingly, article 121 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Meryame Kitir on article 122. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 21 to Rule 122 by Meryame Kitir. (2839/20) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 52) Yes 49 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. MM. Laurent Devin and Eric Thiébaut voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 122. (2839/20) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Rule 122. (2839/20) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u227	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 56 of Benoît Dispa cs to Article 122. (2839/21) Vote on amendment No 56 by Benoît Dispa cs to Rule 122. (2839/21) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u228	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Rule 122. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 122. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 53) Yes 78 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, Article 122 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 122 was adopted. Vote on Rule 123. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 123. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u229	Consequently, Article 123 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 123 was adopted. Vote on Rule 124. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 124. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u230	Consequently, Article 124 was adopted. Accordingly, article 124 was adopted. Vote on Rule 125. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 125. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u231	Consequently, Article 125 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 125 was adopted. Vote on Rule 126. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 126. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u232	Consequently, Article 126 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 126 was adopted. Vote on Rule 127. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 127. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u233	Consequently, Article 127 has been adopted. Accordingly, article 127 was adopted. Vote on Rule 128. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 128. (2839/18) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 54) Yes 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 126 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, Article 128 was rejected. Article 128 is therefore rejected. MM. Benoit Hellings et Servais Verherstraeten ont voté contre. Vote on Rule 129. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 129. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u234	Consequently, Article 129 was rejected. Article 129 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 130. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 130. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u235	Consequently, Article 130 was rejected. Article 130 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 131. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 131. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u236	Consequently, Article 131 was rejected. Article 131 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 132. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 132. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u237	Consequently, Article 132 was rejected. Article 132 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 133. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 133. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u238	Consequently, Article 133 was rejected. Article 133 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 134. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 134. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u239	Consequently, Article 134 was rejected. Article 134 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 135. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 135. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u240	Consequently, Article 135 was rejected. Article 135 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 136. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 136. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u241	Consequently, Article 136 was rejected. Article 136 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 137. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 137. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u242	Consequently, Article 137 was rejected. Article 137 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 138. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 138. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u243	Consequently, Article 138 was rejected. Article 138 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 139. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 139. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u244	Consequently, Article 139 was rejected. Article 139 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 140. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 140. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u245	Consequently, Article 140 was rejected. Article 140 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 141. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 141. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u246	Consequently, Article 141 was rejected. Article 141 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 142. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 142. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u247	Consequently, Article 142 was rejected. Article 142 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 143. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 143. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u248	Consequently, Article 143 was rejected. Article 143 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 144. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 144. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u249	Consequently, Article 144 was rejected. Article 144 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 145. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 145. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u250	Consequently, Article 145 was rejected. Article 145 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 146. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 146. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u251	Consequently, Article 146 was rejected. Article 146 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 147. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 147. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u252	Consequently, Article 147 was rejected. Article 147 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 148. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 148. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u253	Consequently, Article 148 was rejected. Article 148 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 149. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 149. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u254	Consequently, Article 149 was rejected. Article 149 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 150. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 150. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u255	Consequently, Article 150 was rejected. Article 150 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 151. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 151. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u256	Consequently, Article 151 was rejected. Article 151 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 152. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 152. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u257	Consequently, Article 152 was rejected. Article 152 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 153. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 153. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u258	Consequently, Article 153 was rejected. Article 153 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 154. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 154. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u259	Consequently, Article 154 was rejected. Article 154 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 155. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 155. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u260	Consequently, Article 155 was rejected. Article 155 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 156. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 156. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u261	Consequently, Article 156 was rejected. Article 156 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 157. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 157. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u262	Consequently, Article 157 was rejected. Article 157 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 158. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 158. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u263	Consequently, Article 158 was rejected. Article 158 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 159. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 159. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u264	Consequently, Article 159 was rejected. Article 159 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 160. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 160. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u265	Consequently, Article 160 was rejected. Article 160 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 161. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 161. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u266	Consequently, Article 161 was rejected. Article 161 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 162. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 162. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u267	Consequently, Article 162 was rejected. Article 162 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 163. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 163. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u268	Consequently, Article 163 was rejected. Article 163 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 164. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 164. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u269	Consequently, Article 164 was rejected. Article 164 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 165. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 165. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u270	Consequently, Article 165 was rejected. Article 165 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 166. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 166. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u271	Consequently, Article 166 was rejected. Article 166 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 167. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 167. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u272	Consequently, Article 167 was rejected. Article 167 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 168. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 168. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u273	Consequently, Article 168 was rejected. Article 168 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 169. (2839/18) Vote on Article 169. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u274	Consequently, Article 169 was rejected. Article 169 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 170. (2839/18) Vote on Article 170. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u275	Consequently, Article 170 was rejected. Article 170 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 171. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 171. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u276	Consequently, Article 171 was rejected. Article 171 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 172. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 172. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u277	Consequently, Article 172 was rejected. Article 172 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 173. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 173. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u278	Consequently, Article 173 was rejected. Article 173 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 174. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 174. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u279	Consequently, Article 174 was rejected. Article 174 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 175. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 175. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u280	Consequently, Article 175 was rejected. Article 175 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 176. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 176. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u281	Consequently, Article 176 was rejected. Article 176 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 177. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 177. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u282	Consequently, Article 177 was rejected. Article 177 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 178. (2839/18) Vote on Article 178. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u283	Consequently, Article 178 was rejected. Article 178 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 179. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 179. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u284	Consequently, Article 179 was rejected. Article 179 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 180. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 180. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u285	Consequently, Article 180 was rejected. Article 180 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 181. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 181. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u286	Consequently, Article 181 was rejected. Article 181 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 182. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 182. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u287	Consequently, Article 182 was rejected. Article 182 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 183. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 183. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u288	Consequently, Article 183 was rejected. Article 183 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 184. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 184. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u289	Consequently, Article 184 was rejected. Article 184 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 185. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 185. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u290	Consequently, Article 185 was rejected. Article 185 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 186. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 186. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u291	Consequently, Article 186 was rejected. Article 186 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 187. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 187. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u292	Consequently, Article 187 was rejected. Article 187 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 188. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 188. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u293	Consequently, Article 188 was rejected. Article 188 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 189. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 189. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u294	Consequently, Article 189 was rejected. Article 189 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 190. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 190. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u295	Consequently, Article 190 was rejected. Article 190 is therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 191. (2839/18) Vote on Rule 191. (2839/18) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u296	Consequently, Article 191 was rejected. Article 191 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u297	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 55) Yes 76 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law as amended. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2839/24) As a result, the House adopted the bill as amended. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2839/24) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Françoise Schepmans voted in favour. Mrs Nahima Lanjri also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u298	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Eric Thiébaut cs on Article 4. (3089/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Eric Thiébaut cs to Article 4. (3089/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 56) Yes 49 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. MM. Georges Dallemagne and Benoît Lutgen voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Eric Thiébaut cs on Article 4. (3089/5) Vote on amendment No 7 of Eric Thiébaut cs in Article 4. (3089/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u299	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Pas to the exclusion of Article 31. (3089/5) Vote on amendment No. 5 by Barbara Not tending to delete article 31. (3089/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 57) Yes 4 Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 31 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 31 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u300	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 58) Yes 78 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3089/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3089/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u301	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 59) Yes 76 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 57 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3127/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3127/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Franky Demon voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u302	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u303	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this text, as we have done in committee. (Applause and hustle and bustle on the benches) But I will vote after my explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u304	Mr Senesael has the right to an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u305	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will support, as we have done in committee, this text on the application of behavioural sciences in health care. However, I regret that patient associations cannot be associated with this dynamic. Our group had tabled an amendment to that effect. The majority decided not to support it and therefore not to give the place they deserve to the patient associations in this context. Yet your government has claimed to want to make the patient the pilot of its health care and put it at the heart of the marguerite presented as part of the health care reform. I therefore do not understand this opposition. For this reason, I will abstain today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u306	Thank you, Mr. Senesael. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 60) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2474/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2474/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u307	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Beware of Article 3. (2098/10) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Not to Article 3. (2098/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 61) Yes 4 Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Mr. Benoît Lutgen voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u308	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 62) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2098/11) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2098/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u309	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 63) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (816/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (816/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u310	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 64) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3159/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3159/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u311	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 65) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3071/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3071/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u312	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 66) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3093/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (393/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u313	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 67) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3100/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3100/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u314	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 68) Yes 89 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3150/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3150/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws. We will proceed to vote on the proposal for naturalization laws. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u315	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 69) Yes 128 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u316	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 70) Yes 130 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u317	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 71) Yes 129 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u318	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 72) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip238x.u319	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 12 July 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, July 12, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 12 July 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 12 July 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
