ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Blanchart's 17020 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u2	Madam Minister, during the discussion in the Social Affairs Committee of the draft law on the financing of social security, there was a whole debate on the abuse of legislation. During that debate, the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises referred to an interpretation paper by the RSZ on the technical unit for the application of the RSZ reduction in the framework of plus plans. Indeed, a number of SMEs have recently received recoveries of grants, which relate to the period of the first adjustment of the relevant legislation during the current legislative period, namely the year 2015. In the accompanying letter, the RSZ recalls its assessment criteria for technical unit, taking into account inter alia the distance between the legal entities, the nature of the products in those entities, the common employment of the same employee in those entities and the common use of the instruments. Madam Secretary, were the right holders informed of the criteria? When do the criteria and the interpretative note date? In the meantime, has the RSZ accompanied the companies in the interpretation? After all, my question dates back to March 2017. How is it possible that the RSZ granted the reduction to the companies concerned for years before it intervenes in cases which do not comply with its interpretation of technical unit? Can the employers concerned ask for a waiver or at least obtain a payment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u3	Mrs Kitir, as I said at the time, the principle of the technical unit of business is not new. It was already used in the so-called plus 1 plan, which was introduced in 1989. It was the forerunner of the target group reduction for first recruitments. Private sector employers who employ workers subject to the RSZ Act can benefit from the target group reductions for initial recruitments, insofar as they can be considered as new employers for initial recruitment of workers and for up to six. The employer shall not benefit from the reduction in the target group for initial recruitment if the newly employed worker replaces an employee who has been employed in the same technical unit during the four quarters preceding recruitment. The legislator's intention was to avoid a mere adaptation of the legal status of the employer without real job creation giving entitlement to the reduction of contributions. Since the legislation does not determine what is to be understood by "the same technical unit," the concept was developed in the caselaw. First of all, the concept of "technical unit of business" cannot be clearly defined by analogy with the same concept contained in the Law of 20 September 1948 on the organisation of business, since that legislation has a specific objective. In addition, according to settled case-law of the Court of Cassation, the existence of a technical unit of business should be determined on the basis of social and economic criteria. It is necessary to verify whether the entity in which the newly employed employee is employed is socially and economically linked to the entity in which a worker has been employed in the course of 12 months or four quarters prior to his employment, which he replaces. A new recruitment shall not entitle the said contribution reduction if it is not accompanied by a real job creation in the same technical unit. Indeed, the target group reduction is granted first and then the verification of the conditions of application is carried out on the basis of a subsequent check of the DmfA family social security declaration. The control is very intensive and takes some time. The employer is sometimes informed after some time that he does not comply with the conditions of application of the technical unit. You're asking how he's supposed to know that. The way in which the RSZ fills in the concept of a technical unit is always communicated to social secretariats, service providers and employers. Since the regulation came into force, the concept of a technical unit has also been included in the administrative instructions. As from the instructions of the third quarter of 2004, the RSZ will clarify how it works to verify whether there is a replacement in the same technical unit. You can find this on the website www.socialsecurity.be on the DmfA/multifunctional declaration page. From the instructions of the first quarter of 2016, what is communicated to employers and service providers in relation to the concept of a technical unit of business shall also be explicitly included in the administrative instructions relating to the DmfA. The RSZ does not accompany specific employers' groups, but does explain the views when requested. In addition, the RSZ proactively informs service providers and social secretariats who wish to participate in the monthly consultation meetings. In addition, the employer or his social secretariat or social service provider can always contact the RSZ with his questions. In certain cases, the RSZ can only provide a preliminary reply, for example in the absence of concrete data or in the absence of recruitment. Where the target group reduction for first recruitment is refused because the conditions of application are not met, there is no sanction and therefore no remission can be granted. Employers who face temporary difficulties in payment and who meet the legal requirements have the possibility to obtain a pay-off plan. So that sigh is met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I will ask a written question on this later. I understand that several steps have been taken to keep the companies informed and that it is normal that a discount is given first and that it is only subsequently checked whether there should be a refund. I hope that the time-limit between the granting of the discount and the announcement that someone is not entitled to the reduction is not too long, because that often means that employers have to work with a pay-off plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u5	Mr President, first of all I would like to point out the typical example of some kind of parliamentary or political inertia: my questions date back to May 2017! How, almost a year later, have these issues not been able to travel through the corridors of the House and the ministry? The subjects I want to address are important, so I wanted to introduce oral questions. Perhaps if I had written them, an earlier answer would have been given to me or perhaps it would have taken two years. Minister, I have two questions for you. You know I'm very interested in the reality of patients affected by asbestos. At the hearings on 3 May 2017, the need to improve the information of the public and health professionals on asbestos was raised. The same applies to the possibility of compensation for diseases related to these diseases, so as to limit or even eliminate under-reporting of these diseases. It is interesting to note the difference between the statistical data of the Cancer Registry Foundation and those of the Asbestos Fund for Mesotheliomas. In 2014, 294 mesotheliomas were registered - 48 women and 246 men - but only 167 patients were reportedly compensated. Minister, can you provide me in writing with the statistics for the last five years on the number of mesotheliomas recorded by the Cancer Registry Foundation and the number of mesotheliomas compensated by AFA (Asbestos Fund)? Basically, what concrete measures can be taken to improve AFA's knowledge and to increase the possibilities for compensation for asbestos-related diseases through the AFA Fund, thus enabling as many patients as possible to benefit from it? This is obviously problematic when we know the extraordinarily long latency time between exposure to asbestos and the onset of the diseases that result from it, including mesothelioma: sometimes 25 to 30 years. Let me turn to my second part of the question, again on the asbestos fund. I will not recall all the provisions of the Royal Decree implementing Chapter 6, Title 4, of the Programme Law of 27 December 2006, which established a Fund for the Compensation of Victims of Asbestos. I would like to quote from Article 9, which states that the Fund must take a decision within two months of the completion of the application. On the other hand, I am very concerned because, following my contacts in the field, it is my responsibility that the processing time is about 300 days, almost a year. During the hearings, I saw what was happening in other European countries, even though there is a long delay between exposure to asbestos and the onset of the disease. I note that for the same disease, with the same delays between exposure and symptoms, as for example in France, all files are closed in a few months. Could you provide us with information on the processing times of AFA-managed files? What is the evolution of these deadlines in recent years? If the legal deadlines, which are two to four months depending on the disease, are not yet applicable at present, it is absolutely necessary to take charge of this matter. These deadlines should be shortened. This is important: mesothelioma is a serious disease. The later the award of compensation, the more likely the patient is to die when the decision is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u6	Ms.Fonck, the 60-day investigation period is met in the vast majority of mesothelioma cases, as the average duration of investigation for the 210 cases was 50 days in 2016. It should be noted that this period is calculated, as you indicated, from the moment the AFA receives the parts to confirm the diagnosis. Only then can the application be considered complete. For the seven cases of asbestosis and the thirty-four cases that are legally assimilated, the average investigation period was 296 days in 2016. These records are quite complex both in terms of exposure – for asbestosis, the criteria provide for a quantitative estimate of the number of asbestos fibres throughout the worker's career – and in terms of diagnosis. As shown in the table I will give you, the situation has improved somewhat from 2012 to 2015 but this was not confirmed in 2016. The administration needs to improve its investigation procedure in order to be more closely aligned with the objective of length of education. For your question about the number of cases recognized by AFA and registered in the Cancer Registry, there is a difference. I'll give you all the figures from 2007 to 2016. In 2016, 210 cases were recognized by the Asbestos Victims Compensation Fund. As for the number of mesotheliomas, for example, there are 294 cases in 2014. For this year, the figures are not the same. That is the problem. Contacts have been made between the Cancer Registry and Fedris, which houses the Asbestos Fund, to organize an information campaign with pneumonologists to inform their patients. A few years ago, the Asbestos Fund investigated the possibility of comparing the databases of the Asbestos Fund and the Cancer Registry to send a letter of information to victims about their rights, but in view of the privacy legislation, this was not possible, only the doctor could notify his patient in this case. It was obviously a simpler way to speed up the process, but it was banned by the Privacy Commission. We will try to work through pneumonologists because, in fact, people with this mesothelioma are followed by these specialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers and for the tables you are going to send me. As far as deadlines are concerned, 50 days is an average for mesothelioma but the concern comes when the coins are received. That's a problem. I wonder if there is no way to draw up a canvas – which could be available on the fund's website – containing all the documents necessary for the introduction of a file. This would ensure that there is no longer time-limits due to missing documents in the file. You know like me that in the case of a mesothelioma, the time factor is important given the life expectancy of the patients. The same applies to asbestosis, with a delay of 296 days. Steps should be taken to assist in the preparation and processing of upstream files. There are efforts to be made because this is a very time-consuming time. There is a differential between the asbestos bottom and the significantly greater number of patients with mesothelioma listed in the cancer registry. We cannot afford to leave the situation as it is. Minister, I hear you are going to conduct an information campaign for pneumonologists. This is a good thing, but I believe that general practitioners should be involved because they are piloting the DMG in a large majority of cases and they can also be a channel for transmitting additional information in the context of compensation through the asbestos fund. This is certainly a good initiative, but I do not think it will be enough. It would be interesting to explore other avenues, and I will allow myself to make proposals in this regard. I picked up the privacy issue for the cancer registry. In my opinion, it's possible to find more and I'm going to dig into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is from May. There have therefore been developments since then. However, I would like to receive more specific answers to the questions raised about volunteering and the evolution of the 2005 Act. In April-May, numbers to identify volunteers were announced. More than a million Belgians are involved. Of these, 9 per cent are job seekers, 15 per cent are workers, 21 per cent are 15-29 year olds, 10 per cent are over 60 years old. The most numerous are between 40 and 50 years old. My questions are as follows. The new legislation on SIIP (individual integration projects for beneficiaries of social integration income) incorporates volunteerism as a component of SIIP contracts under the name of 'Community service'. At the time of the adoption of these provisions, many questions arose: how to reconcile respect for the free choice of activity by volunteers with compulsory registration in a community service, given that they benefit from a RIS. Doubts remained in the circulars. I would like to know the status of the discussions on these provisions. Negotiations had taken place within the government and resulted in the'recovery' mechanism that we are considering in committee, but it seems to me that these are issues of another order. It was also intended to improve the costs for volunteers, including travel and occasional gifts. The sector had asked for equal treatment between volunteers and workers. Is this aspect taken into account in the ongoing reflection? Requests had also been made to better reflect respect for professional secrecy. The information of volunteers in this regard needs to be improved. The High Council of Volunteers also requested, at that time, the recognition of a status and the abolition of the pre-NEM declaration of job seekers via the famous form C45B because it is really experienced as a manifestation of suspicion and discrimination against the job seeker volunteer compared to the volunteers who do not receive unemployment benefits. Minister, at exchanges and meetings, you seemed to be relatively in favour of reducing the obligations for these workers. What about today? What is the government's position on the subject? Finally, there was a desire to strengthen the use of skills acquired through informal training as a result of volunteering, in connection with the 2015 European Directive, which will be implemented in 2018. I would like to have an update on all these provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a certain anachronism, in the sense that the question that I am now asking was introduced in May 2017. I wonder how this debate can take place only in January 2018. At the time, we were alerted by press articles that evoked ideas of associative and other work. My question is completely overtaken by events, since we have already discussed at length at first reading the project "Economic recovery and strengthening of social cohesion", which includes a chapter on this subject. I found that the tenth anniversary of the law had already passed for more than two years at the time of the issue. Today is almost in the thirteenth year. It is well known that the Supreme Council was seeking an assessment and probably an adaptation of the law on certain points, as mentioned by my colleague. I therefore associate myself with the questions posed by Muriel Gerkens. The Supreme Council has given its opinion on the bill which is now part of another matter which will come back to this commission. I do not recall the fact that the voluntary sector, the Francophone platform or the Conseil supérieur national are not in favour of the content of the project, as proposed to us today. This is in any case a bad answer to one of the questions asked. There is certainly the will to work with them and, according to them, it is necessary to do so in consultation and dialogue on the "grey zone". But the sector's expectations do not match the content of the project. We are moving towards a commercialization of volunteerism, which is not the philosophy of the law as voted, especially by you, Madam Minister. The status of the core volunteer was linked to the concept of free. I am not going to go back to the discussion, but on the other aspects, beyond this grey area and the voluntary work that we are talking about, it is requested that this law be followed up, that it be updated on the basis of discussions with the sector. I hope that this evaluation of the legislation will be done after hearing from the industry. I also wanted to know if there was a draft bill and what stage of development it was at. When will you come to committee with a bill? Do you also want to hear from the sector before proposing changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u10	Madam Minister, I could also start by saying that my question dates from May 2017, but well. You are reviewing the 2005 Voluntary Act together with your colleagues Geens and Peeters. I believe that voluntary law is a good beacon for volunteering in our country. Like my predecessors, I am curious about the changes that will be made. I would like to focus on the reporting obligation for voluntary work, as mentioned by Mrs Gerkens. The Flemish Volunteers Support Point is concerned that the reporting obligation for unemployed and bridge-retired persons would still be included in the revised version. Can you confirm this? This reporting to the RVA is perceived as a threshold for candidate volunteers by organisations that just work with volunteers. We share that view. In our view, this is an expression of distrust of people who want to do something selfless like volunteering. Like the VSV or the High Council for Volunteers, we do not see the supposed protective effect of this reporting. What could be a possibility is some kind of right of notification. Those who are convinced that the volunteering fits in with their CV and can also increase the chances of finding a job, are free to include that volunteering in the file that keeps track of the track guide. Can you explain to me your position and your plans? When do you intend to submit a draft of this revised voluntary law to Parliament? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u11	A declaration to the employment office remains mandatory. Notification to the National Employment Office may constitute a barrier to volunteering, both for organisations and for voluntary applicants. Last May, I met with representatives of all organizations. They gave me a list of all the barriers that exist and informed me of the time it takes for an unemployed person to be installed in the voluntary task he asked for. In fact, it takes many months. That is why I am in favour of deleting the declaration to the ONEM for non-profit associations. Of course, I'm not alone in this. This competence is shared with the Minister for Labour and the Länder are also involved through VDAB, FOREM and Actiris. I believe that the removal of the declaration would encourage the unemployed to volunteer so that they can invest in our society and acquire new skills. It would really be a good thing if people could find work and structure again and make a commitment through volunteering, so that they might be reactivated. The idea of a possible right of notification in the context of the valorisation of the acquired competences during a volunteering period is also certainly a possible piste. All this, of course, is the subject of discussions with the Minister for Labour. In this way we will examine how we can make adjustments to this. The bill amending the law on the rights of volunteers will be submitted – I think – in March or April, because we are still at the stage of the preliminary draft and then we will have to go through the Council of Ministers and the Council of State. Then, as usual, the text will be forwarded to the House of Representatives for discussion and evaluation in the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u12	I do hear that the minister is in favour of deleting this form and this approach for job seekers, and I therefore hope that your colleague, the Minister of Employment, shares your position, also with regard to the elements revising the law. You did not provide me with any answers as to the difficulties of being there between volunteering and community service activity within ISIPs. I would therefore like to draw your attention once again to ensure that we do not find ourselves once again in a situation in which people are finally forced to accept voluntary work without the characteristics of volunteering being combined, since there is a constraint to having an activity. And so I think, when the 2005 revision of the law is actually on the table, that it will really be necessary to integrate these concerns in order to clarify the positions and relations between the two texts, as well as the demands of each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u13	I thank the Minister for her answers. The schedule is on track for this draft bill. To my knowledge, the National Labour Council has published an opinion on its website at the present time. Two steps are therefore still to be taken before the subject arrives on the table of our committee. When the issue is ripe, I hope that the committee will also be able to hear from the actors on the ground before taking any decisions. Secondly, the current project creates confusion between voluntary work and voluntary work. Finally, volunteers are assimilated to those who are in the grey zone, where they are not a priori. We need to clarify things, but we will come back to that when we look at the bill on economic recovery and social cohesion. Thirdly, I hear your opinion, Madam Minister, on the deletion of the declaration to the ONEM. The persons who took the initiative of the law passed in 2005 had in mind that any person may be a volunteer or a volunteer, even if he or she is a social beneficiary. Efforts must be made to minimize obstacles. It is important that people with job-seekers, sick people or other statuses have access to volunteering, and that the benchmarks and limitations are well defined. Volunteering must be accessible to everyone. When a social beneficiary is involved, it is important to be able to engage in voluntary or voluntary action in civil society, in particular for the purpose of integration. We will pay attention to the project announced to us. We hope that a constructive dialogue with the actors on the ground will take place in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to be able to start this year with a positive response. After all, I understand that you are not in favour of reporting, but that you think that a right of notification is an interesting piste. This could give people the opportunity to move to the ordinary labour market. I wish you every success when you discuss this with the Minister of Work and with the entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u15	Minister, in May 2017, our committee reviewed a bill to provide a status for voluntary citizen service. Interesting - and sometimes moving - hearings were held with several young people who had experienced such a service. Their number is still limited, given the experimental nature of this formula. In any case, these hearings were able to demonstrate the added value of this initiative. A colloquium was then held in the Senate to promote good practices in neighbouring countries. As I asked this morning, when we were discussing the order of business, it is important that the proceedings of this colloquium be transmitted to us in order to develop this dossier. Ministers Gatz and Madrane had been heard in this context by expressing support for the initiative in question. In addition, the Council of State reminds us that the federal government can pilot the project by means of a law, but stresses the need for cooperation with the Communities and the Regions. Minister, what is your idea of establishing a statute for citizen service? Are you in favour of it? If so, are you prepared to organize a consultation with the federated entities with a view to bringing the project to a successful conclusion? Finally, what concrete initiatives do you intend to take on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u16	Mr President, Mr Delizée, as I have said on several occasions, I am in favour of expanding the opportunities for young people to perform a citizen service. This system already exists in Belgium on a small scale but does not benefit from a suitable legal framework. The law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion, which will pass at second reading next week, introduces a new status as an associative worker allowing to earn up to 6000 euros per year, not taxed and not subject to social contributions, with a maximum of 500 euros per month. The Act provides that this status will also apply to services provided on a citizen service route by young people, approved by the accreditation body defined by decree. I have therefore established a general statutory framework whose practical implementation is the responsibility of the federated entities. This status makes it possible to recognise and value the substantial commitment of these young people and to lay down the rules applicable to them with regard to allowances, insurance and cumulation with social and other benefits. I have no doubt that this framework will promote the development of citizen service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u17	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answer. I note that, in principle, you are in favour of citizen service. Similarly, you recognize that today there is no legal framework but only experiments on a small scale. I welcome this for the young people who can participate, but I regret that there are so few of them. You link to this current project on associative work. I will make the same observation as for volunteering. Indeed, demand is much higher and not everything is a matter of bargaining. The problem is not essentially financial but must integrate the concepts of citizenship and integration into society in order to know the values of citizenship through training. The concept goes beyond the concept of allowing people to work to earn 500 euros per month not taxed and not subject to social contributions. The bill affects a specific federal framework that could lead to a federal or inter-federal agency that can recognize the bodies that will accommodate young people on public service. The appropriate status and operating procedures must be found. In my view, the current bill will not answer or solve the problem as the various sectors wish, which in fact support the citizen service. It seems to me that the framework must be much broader and broader. We have to work together. Unfortunately, your answer seems too restrictive, as if the work had been done and the file could be sent to the Regions. That's not it! There is a need for dialogue and consultation. A specific law must govern a voluntary citizen service in Belgium because this is not currently the case with the draft law on economic recovery and social cohesion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u18	Madam Minister, on 11 April 2014, your predecessor concluded an agreement with Turkey on social security. This Convention replaces the old 1966 Convention, which increased the period of validity of the BT8 document from 45 to 90 days. This document is necessary for Belgian nationals to have access in Turkey to health care for urgent care. In practice, however, this has not so far been the case. A lot of people planning their summer vacation stay in the dark. On 12 November 2015, the draft law 1305/002 was adopted in plenary. It concerned the assent of the Chamber to the agreement on social security between Belgium and Turkey. The Belgian federated entities must also agree to the agreement. In reply to my written question No. 1032 of 11 July 2016 indicated that the Flemish Parliament had already approved the agreement on 21 June 2016. Madam Secretary, I have two questions. Are you aware of the latest state of affairs? In the meantime, was the agreement signed by the French and German-speaking Community, the Walloon Region and the Joint Community Commission? Have you had any discussions with the competent departments of the other authorities recently? Where is the administrative procedure for agreeing to the agreement at those levels? When can Belgians who go on holiday in Turkey enjoy that period of validity for urgent care of 45 to 90 days?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u19	Mr Yüksel, the ratification procedure of the Treaty is still under way. It is, as you say, a mixed treaty, which must also be approved by the various sub-entities. The new treaty was indeed approved by the Chamber in November 2015. The approval procedures in the sub-entities shall be followed by the FPS Foreign Affairs Office. On a regular basis, this will be reported to the Working Party on Mixed Conventions, which will take stock of ratification procedures. The Treaty has so far been approved by the Flemish Parliament, the Joint Community Committee of Brussels-Capital, the Parliament of the French Community and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. Only the Walloon Region still has to approve the treaty and then we are there. Subsequently, Foreign Affairs may exchange the ratification documents. Three months later, the treaty will enter into force. In Turkey, the procedure was finalised by the publication of the Convention on 3 April 2017. However, until ratification procedures are completed, no part of the agreement can be implemented. This means that the old treaty still applies to fellow countrymen who go to Turkey. A new government started in Wallonia a few months ago. As a result, ratification has been delayed a little. However, that is the only ratification we are still waiting for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u20	Madam Minister, it would be good to point this out at meetings with colleagues, so that there is some urgency behind it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u21	We need the question under item 12. Sorry, Mrs. Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u22	Mr President, it is not entirely clear to me why the order of questions is being changed or whether an agenda change was requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u23	I didn't change the order. Questions under items 6 and 7 will be dealt with shortly if Mr Daerden is present. I have been somewhat accommodating in this, even though I know I do not follow the Rules of Procedure. Unless you tell me to drop the question by Mr Daerden?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u24	Okay, I didn't understand. I can wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u25	You're right. Since the questions have been put together, I will not keep you waiting too long. I was promised that Mr Daerden would be here within fifteen minutes, but I believe that those fifteen minutes have passed. I suggest we wait another ten minutes for him to arrive. If he's not here by then, we'll get to those questions anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u26	Okay, no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u27	Mr President, Minister, almost everyone agrees that the sharp increase in the number of long-term sick is partly due to the prescription behaviour of the treating doctors. As a competent minister, you have rightly responded by announcing that you would detect abnormal prescription behaviour through the methodology of data mining, a targeted statistical analysis, and that you would have medical re-examinations carried out on that basis. How many medical diagnoses for illness and disability have you had analysed and according to what methodology? What are the results of this data mining? How many instances of abnormal prescribing behaviour were identified? What did you learn from that? How many medical retests were carried out on the basis of data mining and how many doctors were appointed to carry out the retests? In how many cases did the medical re-examination produce a different result as the initial medical diagnosis? Was any action taken in those cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u28	Mr President, Mr Spooren, there are two initiatives concerning the enforcement of the directives on sickness and invalidity and the duration of rules on disability, which I would like to draw to the attention of this committee. The first initiative is the activity of the fourth committee in the bosom of the National College of Social Insurance Medicine on incapacity for work. This College was founded in early 2016 to address a number of issues within the social security systems in Belgium and to look very closely for medical synergies in the different branches of insurance medicine in Belgium, namely illness, disability, unemployment, disability and prevention. Supported by the decision of the Council of Ministers of 31 March 2017, the College will draw up a number of guidelines on the duration of disability for pathologies with the most frequent and long disability facing the treating and advising physicians of a sickness fund. The Directives will also provide a clear framework for doctors to review the prescription of the period of incapacity for work and can therefore be considered as a medical aid and work tool in particular. The fourth commission within the College is currently working out these guidelines. All medical groups are represented in this body. At the end of 2017, eight disease groups have already been selected by this committee, namely low back pain, carpal tunnel syndrome, breast cancer, mild anxiety and depression, burn-out, knee prostheses, acute myocardial infarction and rotator cuff syndrome. In a second phase, the Committee will examine whether the existing foreign directives, for example from Sweden, Ireland, Spain and France, are applicable to these pathologies in a Belgian context. The guidelines will then have to be verified within the Belgian Medical Corps through a Delphi study. The selection of these groups for which a lot of literature is available makes it possible to make significant progress in the short term on manageable instructions for doctors. In December 2018, this working group will produce results for each of these eight selected diseases. Treating doctors who deviate substantially from the guidelines, the so-called outliers, will be addressed by the existing Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that the committee will draw up a general decision tree for the purpose of prescribing a certificate of incapacity for work. This will enable the physician to be informed of what questions are being asked and what information he or she should have before issuing a certificate. The second initiative is quality control of primary incapacity through the so-called targeted re-evaluation. The purpose of the targeted re-evaluation is to check whether the counseling physician assesses the insured person from the seventh month on primary incapacity for work according to all possible reference professions and not exclusively to the ordinary occupation. Around 100 000 insured persons are recognised as unfit for work for more than six months each year. The objective is to re-assess 7 500 files annually on the basis of the key. Eight doctors have been hired to do this. They will specifically handle these files in the Medical Board for Disability. In the period from 13 February to 11 August, i.e. six months, this targeted check has received a total of 3 347 files and is therefore for the agreed number of 7 500 on track, as it is called. In 90% of the files, the doctor of the service was able to accept the further recognition of incapacity for work. In a small 10% of the files, he considered it necessary to discuss the file with the consultant in a separate section meeting. One in ten of these meetings resulted in an immediate cessation of the person entitled to work. I must also tell you that we have set up a whole new system with doctors who were available and willing to come from another service, through internal recruitment. Now we are at cruising speed, but in the beginning there was no service, no support, no doctors. In order to start quickly, we have worked with internal mutations and four people have gone into them. Then it was built upon it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u29	Madam Minister, I am pleasantly surprised to hear that they are effectively on track in this area. I mean not only the analyses and the re-examinations, but also that some cases are discussed by the re-approvaling doctor and the counsellor, and that they are then followed up. In the first part of your reply, you mentioned preventive guidelines, how to steer the prescription behaviour a little bit. Both are indeed necessary, in the sense that we need to steer the prescribed behaviour with directives, but also the ex post control via data mining remains absolutely necessary. This must therefore be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u30	I only see Mrs Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u31	Madam Minister, the reintegration of long-term sick people is a dossier which is regularly re-emerging. For good reason, of course. The number of long-term sick people continues to increase, and so does the costs associated with it. This government is focusing on reintegration pathways to accompany long-term sick back to work. At the beginning of October, however, the press reported that some 70% of the long-term sick who wish to enter such a reintegration path through their company were declared permanently unfit for work by the occupational physician. This figure comes from a question from the Christian trade union ACV at the external prevention services. Your reaction, which I read in the newspaper, surprised me somewhat. I quote: 'This situation can be a good thing for the workers concerned'. Apparently, that's how someone from your cabinet reacted. "For example, someone with a burn-out cannot see a return to the old company at all. He may then be declared unfit for work for one company but not for the other. That's not negative at all. In this case, mutuality takes over the reintegration process, allowing the employee to work elsewhere." Dear Minister, of course no one will see a return in this context. I believe that you should be more careful to ensure that companies adapt the workplace and/or the job of the long-term ill employee, so that a return is not possible in all but in many more cases. This must be just the essence of the policy. It cannot be that the policy now results in the answer of companies: it is impossible to adjust the work for two thirds of the employees. Such an answer should actually be an exception and not the rule, as it turns out. I do not believe that 70% of the people who cannot return are affected by burn-outs. I come to my question, which I also asked the Minister of Work a while ago. How will you ensure that companies are more committed to and open to adapted work and a progressive work resumption? Or do you stick to what I have just said, that there is no problem and that it will be the de facto rule that long-term sick people cannot resume their work in the old workplace again? The risk is that they will end up in another workplace where someone was just declared unfit for work because the workshop and/or the job could not be adapted. So what exactly are we doing? I don't think that's what this is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u32	Mrs Willaert, you quoted the answer in your question that it is not necessary for these people to go back to work. If these people are no longer able to work in their own company, then they can be helped by the other circuit, which is my competence. It's all about another job. Nor was it said that it would all be a matter of burn-out; that is your interpretation. That's where I'm gonna have to dot the i's. Reintegration is a new factor, both for employers and the workers concerned, but also for prevention doctors and control doctors. I think both circuits should lead to more people getting back to work. The reintegration of an employee is not always an easy matter. It's a time-consuming fact. Moreover, if one or the other lacks the will to reintegrate, long-term opportunities will only decrease. We ask that employers give disabled workers opportunities to return to work. The workers concerned must want to go back to work. Sometimes an employee can no longer carry out the work he used to do for some reason. For example, if the employee wants to carry out another job, there are opportunities to take a training course to get into another job. Those possibilities have been outlined. The relatively high number of studies leading to the determination of permanent medical disability is a focus of attention. I asked the National Labour Council to evaluate the current provisions. I have asked the competent services to collect this information in a centralised manner. At present, there is no stable basis for statistics on the numbers of people who have returned to work successfully after an initiative for reintegration after a period of disability. Some external protection and prevention services at work also mentioned a high proportion of people whose final medical disability is determined by the old employer. They argued that the number was too high. The figures have not yet been confirmed by data from my services, but they are not, in themselves, illogical. The persons in question are in a period of incapacity, which means that they will no longer be able to take up their current position. That is the first part of the journey, especially the retention. We only initiate a possible transition to a new job afterwards. First, we always try to return to work. Only then will new opportunities be explored, either in terms of training or in terms of new jobs. That's what I wanted to point out. The process does not end with the termination of the contract. On the contrary, the investigation to help the patient or person in question in his or her search for a better fitting job with his or her physical or psychological condition is just beginning. My proposal on the adaptability of workers is proportionate to previous findings. I would like to remind Members that the only effect that exists at present if a beneficiary does not show up for a clinical examination by the doctor or the sickness fund is the permanent termination of the recognition and benefit. The following three points describe the only situations which may give rise to a reduction in the benefit: firstly, where there are problems in completing the medical questionnaire surveying the socio-professional situation and the medical constraints affecting the work; secondly, where a person concerned does not appear on a medical-social examination allowing the consultant to assess the residual capacities; and thirdly, where a person concerned refuses to participate in the consultation organised by the consulting doctor to discuss the offer of a reintegration plan with the beneficiary. Mrs Willaert, for the sake of completeness, I would like to say that the Management Committee of the RIZIV Benefits Office may, in respect of appropriate cases, waive all or part of the reduction in the daily amount. People are therefore given the opportunity to explain why they did not show up and why they did not cooperate. These can be social or family reasons. For the rest, the rules in question are applied. As I have said from the outset, I now hear in the field of people who are working again, that it must be a positive story. There's no more to be given. Eventually, those people got fired. People sometimes forget this, but if an employee is ill for six months, they can be dismissed. That's what happened in reality. We are now trying to avoid this by looking within the company for another Jobin filling or by starting a reintegration process. If we can't do this, we'll take them to another job. In the field, we hear that this can be a positive story for those who want and can. In this way, fewer people become dependent on a benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u33	Madam Minister, I agree with you that this can indeed be a positive story, but I still find it worrying that a large majority of people in such a process cannot get involved in their own business. I would also like to stress that there seems to be a great deal of goodwill among people who are ill to return. After all, I read that in six out of ten cases the employee himself applies to start a reintegration course. In the case of employers, this figure is only a quarter. It seems to me to be positive that a majority of the applications are made by the workers themselves. I was a little disappointed by your quote about burn-out. We have held hearings in the Committee on Social Affairs in which almost every expert stressed that burn-out involves individual personality traits with context factors manifesting themselves in the workplace. I believe that there is a great deal on the workers. In this respect, however, I think it is very important to include employers in this story. They may be getting away with it a little too easily. I therefore believe that a great deal of progress can be made in this area. A very interesting piece of opinion by Mrs Peggy De Prins, a teacher of labour sociology and HRM at the Antwerp Management School has been published in the two sides of industry. She says Burn-out is the new strike. It believes that the individual can rarely solve, fight or digest the complexity of his organization and the various sickening problems on his own. Therefore, it is not uncommon for employees to decide to leave the company after a burn-out and seek their happiness elsewhere. However, the old workplace remains intact and as sickening as it used to be, according to Mrs De Prins. She also says that we should no longer banish the conversation about the causes of burn-out to the kitchen table at home or to the doctor's cabinet. It must be conducted urgently in the workplace itself, between colleagues, with management and within the social dialogue. I understand, therefore, that not everyone can return to the same employer, but I think that a figure of 70% of cases in which this cannot be done is more than just a point of attention. It's something we definitely need to deal with. We need to get that figure down so that workfloors that make people sick can be de facto adapted and improved. So I look forward with great interest to the evaluation you requested from the National Labour Council. You refer to this as a point of interest, but I would venture to mention it a little more strongly. If we cannot improve or resolve this, then that is a failure of the whole philosophy behind the reintegration process. Not only must workers be able to move to another workplace, but also those workplaces themselves must be adapted so that fewer people end up in the long term, including burn-out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u34	Mrs Willaert, since your reply goes much further than your question, I would advise you to look in the policy paper for all the initiatives that we will take with Federis to make this issue more open to discussion in the workplace. There are also initiatives on secondary prevention, for which we do have competence. A whole section of the policy paper is about that, but I assume you overlooked that at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question concerns the "zero assessment" measure implemented by the government. The data are probably out of date because this issue dates from last June but perhaps you can update the figures. In 2016, there were 16,393 first-time employers who benefited from the new zero contribution measure, an increase of 54% over the previous year. As a reminder, the measure pays contributions on the first worker to the self-employed who hire for the first time. In order to determine whether they can benefit from the measure, first-time employers are invited to contact their social secretariat. This measure has apparently met with some success. But there are still areas of shadow that deserve to be clarified: firstly, as regards the profile of the people who can benefit from it; secondly, as regards the way in which this preferential system can be accessed; and finally, as regards the risks of unfair competition which the latter may create, particularly in the sensitive sectors of horeca and building. Minister, what are the specific beneficiaries of the zero contribution measure? What sectors, what types of jobs, with what types of contracts? My written question was about 2016 but do you have more recent figures since we are already in 2018. Have there been any refusals? If so, on what basis? Have complaints of unfair competition been filed? At the time of the government's presentation of the measure, some sectors had drawn attention to the fact that, depending on the period of commitment, discrimination could be raised as one employer could commit with social security contributions and another under the "zero contribution" measure. So have any complaints been filed to that effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u36	Mr Vanden Burre, new employers who hire a first worker between 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2020 and who fall under the application of the Act of 27 June 1969 on the social security of workers, can benefit from the "zero contribution" measure according to which a first recruitment free of employer contributions. Since January 1, 2016, most of the demand has been for this reduction, with new employers in the business sector (20 per cent), in construction (15 per cent) and in Horeca (15 per cent). The worker must not meet any specific criteria before being hired. It must of course fulfil the general conditions for granting the target group reductions. In principle, it must be at least a part-time employment contract. These are mainly intellectual workers for whom new employers benefit from the zero contribution measure. In some cases, the target group reduction is refused. In order to give rise to the right to reduction, the new employer cannot replace workers in the same operating technical unit. This must therefore be an additional job creation. Recruitment implies the creation of an additional job only if the number of persons engaged in a technical operating unit on the date of recruitment exceeds the maximum number of persons working in the same unit on a one-day basis within the previous 12 months. In the event that it is found that the undertaking belongs to the same technical operating unit composed of one or more undertakings and that the undertaking in question does not create any additional employment, the reduction shall be abolished ex post. This condition can only be verified ex post by the National Social Security Office. So far, we are not aware of complaints about unfair competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for all these things that I have noted. I will look at the answer in detail and we will certainly come back in the coming year to have an evaluation of the measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u38	Mr President, Minister, it was agreed in the Summer Agreement that those who work part-time will be able to include family care for 48 months in the building-up of pension rights. The modalities and entry into force have not yet been defined. This is an important measure in the further recognition process of the carers. The law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of the caregiver assisting a person with a high need for care took a first step towards that recognition, but in the absence of the necessary implementing decisions, no further rights were granted to the caregiver. We did put that in the law at the time, but we didn't carry it out any further. It has recently been pointed out that this is becoming problematic. Moreover, as long as this law is not amended and royal decisions are not taken to implement it, the measure of the Summer Agreement which grants pension rights to carers cannot enter into force. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What is the state of play with regard to the amendment of the law and the adoption of the necessary royal decrees? In addition to the granting of pension rights, what will be regulated by royal decrees on the granting of rights to carers? What is the planned timing for the amendment of the law and the adoption of the necessary royal decrees?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u39	Mr President, Minister, my colleague has already outlined the issue very clearly. The Summer Agreement contained the proposal of Minister Kris Peeters to include the care path of those who provide a sick family member in the building up of his entitlement to a minimum pension. We have still not been clear on how this will be further developed. More importantly, as the colleague said, the carers have been waiting three years for the implementing decisions of the law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of carers. I have the following questions. Can you state what is happening with regard to the establishment of the necessary royal decrees concerning the conditions for recognition as a caregiver? What is the timing of this, both for the previous law and for what is now envisaged for new legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u40	Mr Vercamer, Mrs Temmerman, thank you for your question. During the discussions on the Summer Agreement, the government indeed discussed the measures to be taken in favour of the caregiver. After all, the demand for care continues to rise and it is important that the ageing population, which may be faced with reduced autonomy, can be surrounded by carers to stay in the familiar environment for as long as possible. I have already given an answer on the same subject to oral question No. 20192. In order not to repeat me, I refer to that. The aim is to create recognition to support people who provide informal care. Ensuring a better balance between work and private life for parents and carers is a priority in the field of social policy, which is also reflected in the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 April 2017. This proposal seeks to improve, from a broader perspective, the problem of the unbalanced division of labour between women and men. The Commission came to this initiative when the previous attempt to achieve the objective pursued showed that merely imposing an adjusted minimum leave for mothers was an insufficient guarantee. A broader approach is therefore needed to make care tasks more possible. It is true that these care tasks also include family care. This proposal was a worthwhile attempt. At present, Member States are giving feedback on the proposal in order to start negotiations with the European Parliament. It is also important that we have indeed made progress on the Summer Agreement. The implementation procedures of the Royal Decree on Family Care have long been at the disposal of this Government. Since the Summer Agreement, we have cut a number of buttons. Here too, we have provided for the possibility of granting pension rights in the context of certain tasks of family care. Further work can be carried out on this common basis. It is still Mr Bacquelaine who deals with pension rights. The recognition and adjustments to be made as soon as possible require further consultations in the field and with Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The existing law needs to be amended before it can continue to build up rights. The question is when an initiative will be taken in this area. Then there are the implementing decisions. A nice intention was declared, but this still needs to be converted into KBJVs. What's the timing of this? When will the law be amended? It was possible to change the Summer Agreement very quickly for a number of things. I'm not asking for impossible things. I just want to know what the timing is for the implementation of the things that have been agreed so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u42	Madam Secretary, I have the same question. I asked Mr Bacquelaine this question, but I was referred to you. I can also ask Minister Peeters the question, but I think he will also refer you to him. It is time to link a timing to this. Perhaps you should discuss with your fellow Members how this is going to be done. There is no point in referring to your fellow Members. When we put the question to your fellow Members, they point to you. I think this action is necessary, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u43	Two things have to be done. Firstly, the granting and development of the status of the caregiver. Secondly, the rights attached to it. There are, after all, different degrees of care, depending on the need for care of those who are cared for. So there were different views on this for the Summer Agreement. Some saw it very broad and wanted to grant rights to everyone. I believe that we should work step by step and that there is a difference between caring for people who are no longer able to take care of themselves and others, and that this first category of caregivers should be given more rights. That was indeed a point of discussion. With the Summer Agreement, a number of points have been made on this issue and we can now make real rapid progress. I do not allow myself to be pinned down on strict timing, but I think it is very important to provide support to the professionals for the needs on the ground, with an ageing population and more caring people. The carers must be able to build rights on this basis. So that is very clear. I do not move the hot potato, but it is clear that there has not been the same vision of this in the past few months, which is the case now. I have already said it twice: the Summer Agreement has set the noses in the same direction and we will proceed with this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I do not come to this committee very often, but there are also occasional aspects of mobility. I refer, for example, to the mobility allowances and the draft law that will be discussed here next week with regard to the principle of cash-for-car. However, this question relates specifically to the RSZ contributions to the company bicycles. This morning news came out that the number of company cars reached a record level again in 2017. I would prefer the number of commercial bicycles to reach a record height, but there is still an obstacle there. Companies can today make company bicycles available to their employees. The advantage of such a company bike is calculated pro rata and globalised with the total wage and must therefore be indicated. If the bicycle is only used for professional and residential work trips, then the use of the company bike is not subject to RSZ contributions. However, if the bicycle may also be used for private trips by the employee, then the subjection is pro rata. The strange thing is that this applies to the company bike, but not to the company car. This RSZ obligation therefore inhibits the growth of the use of commercial bicycles. This is not just about the financial aspect, because in the end it is about relatively low amounts. The lack of clarity and the administrative burden associated with this alone slows down many companies to import commercial bicycles. We therefore believe that simplification and, preferably, even the abolition of the RSZ obligation to introduce the company bike could give a huge boost. For example, the company bike could be a full alternative to other forms of commuting. Madam Minister, what is your view on abolishing the RSZ contribution to the private use of commercial bicycles? I'd like to get some explanation on this. Have you been in contact with other ministers on this matter? After all, we must look at this in the global mobility problem with other forms of commuting. The tax treatment of such cases must, of course, also be involved. Following an earlier question, you referred to the discussions that would take place in connection with the mobility budget. These discussions are still ongoing. To what extent is the problem mentioned here addressed? What results has that produced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u45	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, at the Council of Ministers on 15 December, a draft decision was adopted which provides for an update of the social security treatment of the company bicycle. It's about pedelecs and other new bikes. The design of the Royal Decree aims to adapt the regulations to the changing vision of mobility in the area of commuting. The proposed amendments aim to encourage the use of this environmentally friendly means of transport for movements between the place of residence and the place of employment, thereby contributing to environmental objectives, in particular improving air quality and public health. For example, on 18 May the Council of Ministers also adopted a bill from the Minister of Finance which extends to users of an electrically powered motorized bicycle and an electrically powered speed pedal, the exemption from the income tax of the mileage allowance granted by the employer for commuting by bicycle and the benefit resulting from the provision of a bicycle and accessories, including the maintenance and storage costs for commuting. As a result, the draft Royal Decree adopted by the Council of Ministers on 15 December provides for two adjustments for the treatment of social security. First, the notion of bicycle as referred to in Article 19 (2) of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 receives the same broader interpretation as it did in the tax legislation. The new types of bicycles are therefore included. Secondly, the same Article 19 (2) is supplemented by point 23, which provides for a new exclusion from the wage subject to social security contributions for the benefit resulting from the provision of a bicycle and accessories, including maintenance and storage costs, for commuting. That entered into force on 1 January. Let us now hope that we do not have too many accidents and that we do not have too many accidents, otherwise the public health benefits will not be so good. There are quite a few accidents reported due to too fast cycling.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your positive reply. It was already clear to me that the bicycle fee is also exempt from social contributions for users of a speed pedal. However, it was not clear to me that company bicycles in general, including for private use, are also exempted from social contributions. That is, of course, good news. Your concern for mutual respect for slow and fast cyclists is, of course, very justified. This point certainly deserves vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u47	Madam Minister, Article 37 of the Act of Accidents at Work provides that "Where the person concerned is to receive benefits under a social security or social security scheme which are granted only on condition that the statutory limits of permitted work for pensioners are not exceeded, the basic wage shall be fixed only in accordance with the remuneration due as a result of the performance of the authorised work." Moreover, the basic rule resulting from Articles 34 and 36 is not applied to them in that, in the case of permanent incapacity for work, the income from partial benefits is supplemented to full-time employment, after which the limitation to the amount of the work admitted could be applied. As a result, for small services, the fee is not calculated on the basis of the limit allowed. In addition, Article 5 of the Royal Decree of 10 December 1987 provides that, in the cases referred to in Article 37 of the Law, the amount of the supplementary allowance shall be reduced by half. In the meantime, for many pensioners, the limit for permitted work has been abolished. In the case of Fedris, it appears that it is not possible to determine whether, in the event of an accident at work, all the provisions referred to above and any restrictions arising therefrom are still applicable to their employment. As a result, some victims have for years been dependent on extremely low compensation and remain uncertain whether it will be revised or not. Madam Minister, are you aware that many pensioners who have been victims of an accident at work after retirement for months, and in some cases even years, have been unaware of the exact amount of compensation they will receive and that they will receive a very low remuneration pending Fedris' final position? Do you recognize that there is an anomaly for some pensioners, on the one hand, by the abolition of the limit on permitted work and, on the other hand, by the provisions I have mentioned? In what sense will the legislation on accidents at work be adapted to the new pension legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u48	Mrs Kitir, when legislation changes in one domain, the law must be able to change in another. Your question is therefore justified. While the ordinary rules on basic wage calculation aim at a basic wage corresponding to the earnings of a full year preceding the accident at work and in accordance with a full-time working regime, the exception initially states that the basic wage of the victim retired at the time of the accident at work should be limited to the limits of the permitted work applicable to him as a pensioner. If his earnings as a pensioner are higher than those limits, the basic wage will be limited to those limits. Therefore, it is also clear from the settled case-law, which over the years has formed around the application of the law in question, what should be done with the basic wage of a retired victim who earns less than his limit of permitted work. In that case the earnings will not be supplemented, not until a full reference period has been reached, but also not up to the limits of permitted work. In other words, the dominant and settled caselaw states that the basic wage of the retired victim must reflect his limited performance as a pensioner. Since 1 January 2016, pensioners who still want to earn additional income are no longer bound by the limits of permitted employment under certain conditions. On the question of whether Article 37 of the legislation on incapacity for work is still applicable in such cases, the Fedris Management Committee replied in the affirmative at the meeting of 17 July 2017 and after consultation of the Working Group. It also approved a proposal by the services to rewrite Article 37, inter alia, to resolve known application problems. The amendment was approved by the Management Committee at the July 2017 meeting and officially confirmed at the October 2017 meeting. We are likely to include these amendments in a subsequent programme law containing various provisions. In concrete terms, it means that the basic wage of the second-earning retired victim will always be in line with the number of benefits provided and his working regime as a pensioner, even if he or she meets the conditions for unlimited income at that time. The only difference with the pensioner who does have to meet the limit of permitted employment is that the latter's earnings may, where appropriate, be capped up to the limit of permitted work applicable to him. A pensioner who is entitled to unlimited additional earnings will therefore also have a basic wage corresponding to his or her performance. This means a full basic wage if he continues to work full-time, and a proportional basic wage when it comes to a less than full-time supplement. The reason behind the interpretation is that the basic wage, as a basis for the calculation of the fees, is supposed to reflect the competitiveness of the victim in the labour market. If a retired victim voluntarily restricts his benefits, according to established case law, there is no reason to supplement the earnings to the full benefits, even if the limits of permitted work for pensioners who apply to him would leave room for this. On the other hand, victims of an accident at work resulting in permanent invalidity are subject to Article 42a of the Act on incapacity for work as from their retirement. This means limiting the annual compensation or interest to the flat-rate minimum amount of the additional benefit, and that applies ipso facto also to victims who earn as pensioners at the time of the accident at work. In other words, if the basic wage was calculated pursuant to Article 37, the flat-rate amount is even halved. The halving will also continue to apply to pensioners who are entitled to unlimited additional earnings at the time of the accident at work. The Management Committee instructed a working group to examine the possibilities of adapting this measure. The next meeting is scheduled for 18 January 2018. Fedris' services unblocked the files for ratification in August 2017, shortly after the decision of the July Management Committee. As regards the calculation of the basic wage, there are no further pending dossiers. The uncertainty relates to the aspect of the half-life of the additional benefit. In the current state of legislation, that measure remains fully applicable. It is intended that the working party should draw up a proposal for a solution as soon as possible and submit it to the management committee. In order to have an idea of the number of persons involved, some 60 cases of accidents at work with permanent invalidity of victims who were retired at the time of their accident at work are being processed each year. However, we expect that this number will increase over the next few years. It is therefore essential that the matter be properly dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. It is nice to hear that the necessary steps have already been taken to adapt this. Hopefully we will be able to vote quickly on the law in our committee, so that this change will come about quickly, because that will be an improvement for those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 19766 question was converted into a written question. Merged Questions No. 19910 and No. Mr Daerden's 20044 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u51	Mr President, Minister, this is a question of clarity from the field of work. A non-profit association is now free to enter into an omnibus insurance scheme for the transfer of volunteers and to cover its contributions. It is also not a problem that, under such an insurance scheme, the association reimburses the franchise borne by the volunteer to the latter. That is settled, and there is clarity about that. However, this does not fully clarify the situation that arises if the association itself has not taken out omnium insurance for the movements made by the volunteers in the context of their voluntary service. In that case, too, it is conceivable that a volunteer may have an accident during his or her transfer and that the voluntary association will reimburse him or her the costs that the volunteer will have to bear. It seems logical to us, by analogy with the charge of the franchise if there was an omnibus insurance, that this poses neither social nor fiscal problems. If the personal volunteer has concluded an omnium and the association repays the franchise to the volunteer for an accident during his or her transfer as a volunteer, can the reimbursement be covered by the voluntary allowance as laid down in the law on the rights of volunteers? Is this also the case when it comes to ordinary civil liability insurance, which does not cover the volunteer's own damage, and the association repays the damage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u52	Mr President, Article 10 of the Law of 3 July 2005 on the rights of volunteers provides for two ways of reimbursement of the costs of volunteers. Firstly, that is the reimbursement of the real costs or the payment of a flat-rate fee. In 2013, that was 33.36 euros per day and 1334 euros per year. The following situations may arise. Firstly, the organisation itself takes out an omnium insurance scheme for its volunteers who volunteer with their car and then takes over the franchise to the insurer in the event of possible damage. Even if the organisation does not recover this franchise from the volunteer, it is not taken into account for the calculation of the volunteer's expenses. In this situation, therefore, the ordinary flat-rate allowance can still be paid for his or her voluntary service. We assume that this will not be a livelihood either, because then there will be the necessary difficulties. A second possibility is that the volunteer has taken out an omnium insurance scheme for his car and that the organisation decides to repay him or her the franchise in the event of possible damage during the performance of his or her volunteering. In this situation, it concerns the reimbursement of the real costs that the volunteer has incurred in the context of volunteering. The reimbursement of these costs is therefore possible, but not in combination with the flat-rate reimbursement. Article 10 (4) of the said Act expressly states that the flat-rate and real cost allowances for the volunteer must not be combined. The same applies to your question about non-refundable civil liability damages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 20250 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u55	Madam Minister, this question dates back to September, following reports in August. A doctoral study by the department of Sociology at VUB revealed that cleaners die more often from diseases than servants and executives, especially lung diseases. Male cleaners die 45% more often from lung disease than servants and executives. In the case of cleaning women, the risk of death is increased by 16%. The effects of smoking were filtered from these results. The exact causes have not been investigated, but international research has already shown that there is an effect of chemical polishes and biological substances such as dust and fungi on the lungs. After smoking, there is now also a clear link between cleaning and mortality. That is appalling, especially the high figures. It is striking that the effects are greatest among household helpers, perhaps because they work several times a week or a day with strong products. This post appeared only once somewhere in the newspaper, after which little more was heard about it. I thought that was a little weird, because this is topical after all. That is why I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, whether you have taken note of this study? Are you considering measures? Is there any further investigation into this? Did you know about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u56	Minister, an investigation conducted by the VUB has shown that cleaning staff are twice as likely to die from lung disease as managers and employees. In her study, Laura Van Den Borre reviewed the labour force from 1991 to 2011 (workers aged 30 to 60) and investigated the causes of death. It shows that of the 202,000 deaths among men and 58,000 among women, there is a 45 per cent higher mortality among male cleaning workers than among employees and managers. For women, the risk of death is increased by 16 per cent. The leading cause of death in this category of workers is clearly lung disease. The study did not investigate the precise cause of this overmortality, but it indicates that the international literature has already shown that there is a negative effect on the lungs of chemical varnishes and biological substances such as fungi and dust. For the first time, a clear link is established between cleaning activities and overmortality. The study believes that more research should be done on these respiratory problems in the cleaning industry and calls for further prevention and training. Minister, are you going to commission additional research on hazards to cleaning staff, including the cause of lung disease? The study recommends further prevention and training on the hazards of chemical cleaning products for cleaning staff. Will you go in this direction and, for example, will you organise a consultation with the social partners? Are you planning further action? Are you working on a list of cleaning products containing substances whose harmful impact on the lungs has been proven? Are you prepared to make recommendations to the cleaning sector, such as banning the use of certain products if it has been proven that they have a negative impact on health?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, Mr Van Hees, I have indeed taken note of this study. The results are striking. The maintenance sector is certainly a risk sector for employees. This sector has a lot of jobs outside office hours, where the work rhythm and movements performed also pose a risk for tendon disorders, tendinopathies, allergic skin disease or even allergic asthma. However, Fedris, the Federal Agency for Occupational Risks, has no knowledge of a significant increase in the risk of lung cancer among this group of workers. On the other hand, caution must be exercised in drawing lessons from such a study, which compares workers of different status. Other causes could be taken into account to explain this higher mortality rate. The clear correlation between life expectancy and the socio-economic level of a population is well known. It would therefore be interesting to examine whether staff in the cleaning sector were experiencing increased morbidity and life expectancy which was worsened compared to a population of the same socio-economic level which was performing another job. As far as prevention measures are concerned, of course they are the responsibility of Mr Kris Peeters, the Minister for Labour, who is responsible for monitoring the health of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I am well aware that they have not looked any further because this was a doctoral study within the Sociology department. That is why I mentioned it. I am also well aware that we must be careful about the information because socio-economic aspects are also involved. Yet it was a striking comparison. However, I believe that the figures are, to this extent, striking or even alarming that they justify further research. We could therefore possibly entrust the KCE or other bodies with a further investigation. In any case, I will also ask Minister Peeters, but I think these figures are alarming enough to be cautious on the one hand, as you say, and, on the other hand, to be careful on the other hand and to look at that more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u59	Minister, I think you're "sweeping" this study a little bit easily. You tell us that the federation does not know the cleaning sector and that other causes can play. That's the next question! It's quite challenging. I agree with you that we must be critical of the conclusions drawn in any scientific study. Other causes, such as the correlation between socio-economic level and mortality rate, can play a role. However, there is something out of this study. It points to the level of lung disease. It can be seen that there is an overmortality in general but an even greater overmortality, of the order of double, in the matter of lung diseases. Even if all this has to be verified, it can be assumed that there is a link with the products to which these workers are exposed. Such a study cannot be easily swept away. This study calls for and deserves further study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u60	Mr President, I would like to say that everything here is starting to live its own life. Mr Van Hees, it was a doctoral thesis and not a study. There's a difference. It's a thesis, not a study. And I say that a study really needs to be done to determine whether there is a link between lung disease and work or whether this link is more about the socio-economic situation, and this type of link is also recognized. So I'm not just gonna turn to the order of the day. However, there is no study yet, no evidence has yet been provided. There is a thesis, a doctoral thesis. The cases must be appointed as they are. I think it is important enough to work on this, but there must first be further research in a scientifically sound way. Until further notice, a thesis is not a study. I've been trained in science myself. A thesis is a piste that is developed and with which one brings something up to date, but no real study has yet happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u61	Minister, I don't know if we agree or disagree. You say we have to do a study. That's exactly what I'm asking you! We have to do a study. There is this thesis that is quite challenging and I find it necessary to have an initiative on your part to do a study, indeed. If that's what you meant when you said you had to do a study, we agree. If that's not it, then I think there's a disagreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u62	Madam Minister, I would like to return to the social status of contracted doctors over sixty-five years of age. We discussed this in 2017 at the time of the bill on various public health provisions. You made a commitment to maintain certain statutory benefits for active pensioners. However, I was able to see that this was not always the case. In addition, in the section of the INAMI website on the social status of the doctor, I found this indication: "In this case, we cannot temporarily pay you annual contributions. Concertation is under way to determine what social benefit will be provided instead. As you are in this situation, we ask you provisionally not to apply." My question goes back several months, but I would like to know in the end what it is going on for contracted doctors who continue their activity beyond sixty-five years. Do they have a social status corresponding to the commitments you made? Are there other benefits? If so, what are they? What about the expectation of an agreement advocated by INAMI?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u63	Ms Fonck, Article 17 of the Act of 18 December 2015 to ensure the sustainability and social character of supplementary pensions and to strengthen their complementarity with retirement pensions states that the pension agreement remains in force until retirement. On the basis of the idea that a supplementary pension is a supplement to the statutory pension, the Act on Supplementary Pensions for Self-Employed Persons is thus amended to clarify that the payment of supplementary pension benefits takes place on the occasion of the actual taking of the retirement pension. Accordingly, for providers of care whose legal pension has taken effect or will take effect after 1 January 2016, the social benefits which would be granted to them under the traditional system provided for in Article 54 of the Law on Compulsory Insurance Health Care and Allowances (ASSI), coordinated on 14 July 1994, may no longer consist of a participation of INAMI in premiums or contributions for social-type pension agreements within the meaning of the regulations. Articles 44, § 6 and 54 of this Law will no longer make it possible to compensate financially for the accession to agreements and agreements for providers of care who, from 1 January 2016, take or have taken their actual retirement with the benefit of their legal pension. The amendment to the ASSI Act, co-ordinated on 14 July, which you have just mentioned addresses the exclusion of caregivers who are in the situation described in the preceding paragraph. This exclusion, if continued, threatens the rate of adherence to conventions and agreements on the part of health-care providers and would not only undermine the existence of medical- and dental-mutualist agreements and, more generally, the availability of quality services for patients. This legislation, which was already applied only to physicians, provides benefits that are not deemed to be social to caregivers who meet certain conditions. This would be the granting of a premium for accession at the end of the agreements and conventions. It is envisaged that a royal decree will execute the legal terms of this new article 54, § 3. Work on this implementing text is under way with the collaboration of INAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u64	Madam Minister, thank you. If I understand correctly, another form of benefit will be introduced to compensate for it, regardless of its name. I would point out that these active pensioners continue to pay contributions, which makes sense. However, what I know about this royal decree, about what had been said about it in medico-mut, and about what you yourself had promised directly to the unions, dates back many months. The royal decree is under way. Do you hope to succeed quickly? Do you have any idea what this is about?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u65	It's not up to me. As soon as the elements arrive at my house, it will be ready, but in the INAMI consultations, I do not know how long it will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u66	The consultation has therefore not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u67	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u69	As soon as the text arrives at my home, it will evolve at the speed of the TGV.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u70	In practice, I have your commitment that in the event of a medico-mut agreement on the content of the "compensation", if I can call it that, will you endorse it and let the text pass?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u72	Mr.President, Minister, according to LIMOSA's official figures, the number of Indian posted workers' contracts in the computer sector increased from 1,214 in 2007 to 4,462 in 2016, an increase of more than 300% in less than 10 years. More and more telecom companies, IT consultants and even public services are opting for seconded and subcontractors to manage their IT services in whole or in part. The total annual wage of the average computer worker in Belgium is €49,510. For a posted Indian employee, this amount is only €40,972, the legal minimum. In companies employing these Indian workers, we can see that it is exactly the amount, to the nearest euro, of the legal minimum that is offered to them in employment contracts. More and more posted workers do not have the same social rights as their Belgian colleagues. They cannot be represented by a trade union, they do not enjoy any social advantage, because they continue to depend on the Indian social security system. Since 1 September 2006, a social security agreement has been concluded between Belgium and the Republic of India, allowing for detachments of up to five years. This is huge, knowing that in Europe it is a maximum of two years. Madam Minister, why does the agreement provide for a longer period than that for intra-European detachment? What is your assessment of the agreement with India? Is a renegotiation of the agreement envisaged? The Minister for Employment, Kris Peeters, said on 23 May last in committee that federal social security cannot conclude new agreements providing for a longer-term mission than foreseen by European legislation. Do you share this view? What social rights do posted Indian workers have in Belgium? Do they benefit from Belgian health insurance, for example? What is your opinion on the proposal to collect social security contributions in Belgium, in particular in order to simplify social inspection work? In the information technology sector, many Indian workers are employed at the minimum legal level, which, I suppose, was not the intention at the outset when this bilateral agreement was concluded. Do you agree that all employees in this sector should be employed in accordance with the terms and conditions of employment of the collective agreements applicable in Belgium? Finally, what do you think of applying the law on secondment in Belgium to this case? In concrete terms, the trade union delegation, the works council and the joint committee could have a say in the decision to have posted foreign workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u73	Thank you, Mr. Van Hees. Of course, in 2017 and until December 19, a LIMOSA declaration was registered for 3,695 people. The secondment period provided for in the social security agreement with India is five years. The same period is foreseen in the conventions with the United States, Japan, South Korea and Australia. For intra-European postings, the European Regulation provides for an initial period of 24 months, which may be extended. For information, India has concluded social security agreements with thirteen countries of the European Union. In all these agreements, there was a review of the five-year secondment period. Is there an evaluation? Are detachments correct? I am told that there is a permanent assessment of the correctness of detachments from the point of view of social security and compliance with the rules of this Treaty. In February 2017, there was a meeting between representatives of SPI Social Security and the Indian authorities to reach clear agreements to ensure that control was permanent. Meanwhile, the Indian authorities are developing a computer tool to give my services the opportunity to consult the Indian data bank in order to check whether the evidence of the detachments is correct and present in this data bank. During the negotiation of this Treaty, the request concerned mainly many people working in the field of TCI. There are currently no plans to review the terms of this treaty. In addition to a number of other aspects, the Convention prevents such persons from paying twice social contributions and from applying any social security legislation. Without this Treaty, posted workers could pay twice contributions or receive no social security protection. In India, social security coverage is not compulsory. It was therefore necessary to sign this treaty in order to prevent people from ending up without social protection. The employer of the secondees resides in India and ensures payment of wages and social contributions in the country of origin in order to avoid the risk of lack of protection. The posted person does not benefit from Belgian social security or sickness benefits, since no contributions are paid at home. On the other hand, Belgian citizens posted to India retain their rights in Belgium as if they were working here. It makes a difference if it is a person from here who works in India or vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u74	Minister, as far as the conventions are concerned, I note that for Canada, Turkey and the Member States of the European Union, they have a duration of two years. For most countries, the rule is not five years. I'm not saying there's none, but it's not the majority. That is my answer to one of the points you have put forward. There is no social security obligation. That is a problem. Trade unions are particularly dissatisfied with what they call "a form of social dumping". That's not true. It's not a win-win situation, it's a loser-loser. Indian workers are subject to unfavourable conditions in terms of wages and social security and Belgian workers are subject to this social dumping with threats to employment. These threats are not theoretical at all. They are very real because companies have dismissed workers to replace them with Indian workers. There is a real need to reflect on such agreements and situations which are at the expense of both workers in Belgium and workers from other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u75	Minister, in mid-September 2017, you announced that you wanted to take further action under the government summer agreement. Among these, one measure concerns physicians who prescribe too many days of illness; these will have to be justified. You specify that guidelines will be established for physicians with respect to prescribing sick days. They will be clearly informed of how to set periods of absence. You say that it will be objectively determined in which physicians the duration and number of periods of incapacity for work differ from those of physicians with a similar profile. These differences may be explained by objective and justified reasons. If these reasons are lacking, doctors will have to justify themselves otherwise. This raises questions and questions. What do you mean by "the guidelines established for physicians regarding the prescription of incapacity for work"? Are you talking about volume? On the other hand, do you refer to indications or rather to a mixture between volume and indications? Who will establish these guidelines? The "who" is important. Will physician representatives be involved in this reflection? What criteria will be used to compare physicians to their incapacity-to-work requirements? What do you mean when you talk about the fact that doctors will have to justify themselves if objective and justified reasons are lacking? What are these objective and justified reasons? Are you planning sanctions? If so, what kind? To whom will these sanctions be applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u76	Minister, I wish you, as Minister of Health, good health and social security, this year 2018. My question also dates from last September. I have two questions: the first on medical certificates and the second on the abusive prescriptions of medicines. It's not exactly the same thing. You and the federal government have announced your willingness to empower physicians by strengthening controls over the issuance of medical certificates. Indeed, the cost of social security increases from year to year. It therefore seems appropriate to tackle the problem of certificates of convenience at the same time. To illustrate my point, in my own city, some doctors whose name I will keep sold certificates of convenience for ten euros, to students to exempt them from going to school, at the Institute Notre-Dame de Bonne Espérance, not to mention the institution. In 2016, a first step has already been taken in this direction, with the introduction of new certificates of incapacity for work aimed at better collaboration between treating physician and physician-counsel. You want to go further by carrying out thorough checks. Is there an estimate of the positive effects produced since the introduction of this new certificate of disability? What are these effects? Do you have an estimate of what constitutes the problem of certificates of convenience in our country? In concrete terms, what kind of sanctions do you envisage against practitioners issuing such certificates? For the issue of abusive prescriptions of medicines, it is known that INAMI is based on a set of obvious deviation indicators. Otherwise, they are normally prudent and diligent provider criteria. What can you take from these controls, Minister? Is there a decrease in this practice? On an annual basis, how many files have been opened? Have sanctions been imposed? If so, to what extent?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u77	Ms.Fonck, Mr.Flahaux, the new certificate of incapacity for work, with the end date, has been in effect since January 1, 2016. With regard to the impact of the number of days of recognized illness and the average duration of incapacity for work, I will give you a table showing the number of periods of illness per duration. The 2015-2016 evolution is represented. Overall, we can see a slight, non-significant increase in periods of short-term illness and a slight and insignificant decrease in longer-term periods of illness. The pivotal moment is around three months for the unemployed and around five months for the active. The average duration of incapacity for work decreased by four days: 154 in 2016 compared to 158 in 2015. As regards the number of persons with primary incapacity for work, we can see a slight increase in the number of persons in employment, but also a marked decrease in the number of persons with recognised incapacity for work. As regards the number of persons who fall under the invalidity scheme after a period of primary incapacity for work, we see the same phenomenon: a slight increase in the number of persons employed, as well as a marked decrease in the number of unemployed persons recognised as being disabled. However, it is not possible to measure whether the findings result from the impact of the new certificate of incapacity for work. In order to answer Mr Flahaux's second question, a distinction must be made between the different disease certificates which a doctor may have to draw up. Such a document may be intended, among other things, for the employer, a school or a medical consultant of the insurer. In the case of compulsory health care and benefits insurance, the declaration of incapacity for work is in the form of a certificate issued by the attending physician and the model of which is imposed. With regard to compensation by the insurer, the medical consultant for mutual benefit is responsible for the assessment and, as such, recognizes or refuses incapacity for work, both during the period of incapacity and during the period of incapacity - in other words, after more than one year of incapacity. It remains competent at any time to put an end to the recognition of incapacity for work. INAMI is competent in terms of control, but only in respect of certificates which have given rise to compensation by compulsory health care and allowances insurance. Certificates of complacency for incapacity to work are practically the only guaranteed wage period. The Medical Assessment and Inspection Service cannot provide an estimate of the number of certificates of convenience, as it does not have such data for the guaranteed wage period. The certificate used in compulsory insurance is specific and obliges the prescriber to medically motivate this incapacity. The medical assessment of incapacity for work is carried out by the physician-counsel of the insurance body. An employee recognized by that body is subject to sanctions if he or she performs work that is not authorized by the medical consultant. The social controls of the administrative control department have supervisory competence in this area. In 2016, they found 399 cases. However, this does not mean that there have been certificates of convenience. The Medical Assessment and Control Service (MSC) publishes information brochures for health care providers on INAMI regulations. Any problem with medical certificates can be reported by any citizen to the College of Physicians. Physicians may be subject to ethical sanctions by the College of Physicians. Physicians are aware of the Code of Ethics. There are also possibilities for prosecuting and penalizing those who issue a certificate of convenience, such as those who use it. The issue and use of this type of certificate can be punished either as a false use in social criminal law, as a scam in social criminal law, or as an incorrect statement by a healer in the Criminal Code as well. These facts are also covered by article 204 of the Criminal Code concerning the false medical certificate. The SECM examines whether further measures could be taken against the perpetrators of this type of offence. With regard to Ms. Fonck's questions, the guidelines on incapacity for work requirements will be drawn up by a working group set up within the National College of Social Insurance Medicine. The various representatives of the medical associations are included in this working group. The criteria used in comparing physicians with a similar profile will mainly be the duration and number of work disabilities prescribed according to the pathologies. The physician with a prescriber profile, which could be described as outside, can be identified and will have the opportunity to motivate and explain his/her behaviour. The objective and justified reasons may be differences between the specific characteristics of patients, such as age or social status. The Evaluation and Monitoring Service is examining what action could be taken against out-of-country prescribers. With respect to Mr.Flahaux's question, during 2014-15, 45 files related to the use and abuse of analgesics and narcotics were processed. The prescribing and medication profile of prescribers and users was analysed on the basis of pricing data for all public pharmacies. In three of the 45 cases, the prescriber maintained substance abuse. When the INAMI Medical Inspection Evaluation Service finds, after analysing the pricing data and hearing of doctors, that the prescriber has prescribed unnecessary or unnecessarily expensive medicinal products, it can only be punished after a six-month monitoring period by the SECM. The prescriber may be punished only if he or she does not change his or her prescribing behaviour during the monitoring period. The files of the three physicians under monitoring were forwarded to the College of Physicians and the Provincial Medical Commission. One of them was sent to the prosecutor's office. After monitoring, the three doctors changed their prescribing behaviour. However, they always remain under monitoring with increased vigilance. I will give you the table, whose figures range from one week to one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I don't have the paintings yet, but you'll send them to us. We will then see what is happening since, obviously, a series of data are not significant in evolution and elsewhere, to talk about evolution, we would have to analyse several years and not just one. You have recalled the existing legislation, which I would like to stress again. In your statement in September, the manner in which this was presented suggested that doctors should be considered, first and foremost, suspects. I think I can forcefully say that the vast majority of doctors respect the rules. On the other hand, this suggested that there was nothing, while everyone knows that certificates of convenience have long been potentially sanctioned with different categories. Mr Flahaux, in your remarks, you are targeting doctors and a college. These are serious charges that require evidence. Penalties exist and if you have evidence, it is your duty to pass them on to the prosecution. But be careful not to make accusations without proof, especially accusations as serious as this one. I wanted to remind you, in particular, that certificates of convenience have been sanctioned and sanctioned for a very long time. This government didn't make up anything. Finally, Minister, I am well aware of the elements relating to potential new decisions and possible additional adjustments to existing and old sanctions. I hear we're working with the medical representatives. I hear you've been working on the length and number of volumes. I'm paying attention if you start working on the patient's personal indications as such. In fact, to whom will the outsiders, as you call them, have to justify themselves? To the doctor-counsel? With the control office, if any? How will this be articulated with the existing physicians-controllers who are supposed to do this work? In addition, in an individual situation, it is extremely complicated to make a comparison on the basis of an indication as stated in the medical certificate. In this regard, there is still work to be done with physician representatives. Finally, Madam Minister, I regret the way in which you communicated in September. You have done so in a rather provocative way, as if there was nothing in the legislation today. That's not true. There are already many things, controls and sanctions. It appeared, at that time, as being an understatement rather "gross" that doctors had to be considered ex officio suspects. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u80	If you'll allow me to finish, that's not my interpretation. I can tell you that if I have put a question on this subject, it is first and foremost because I have received an incredible number of e-mails from doctors. I'm just telling you. In fact, the unions reacted. I note that they are now associated with these famous guidelines. It is a minimum and we will see what work can be done. I hope that it will be constructive and realized in a way that is attentive to the personal realities of the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u81	Since she has attacked me, I take this opportunity to say that my colleague, Mrs Fonck, sometimes has the art of having two brothers and sisters fight. Frankly, she interprets things. I consider that the overwhelming majority of the medical profession fully respects both the certificates and the requirements. But there are abuses and I think that, in this area as in others, the current government takes the bull by the horns. It not only improves and refines existing legislation, but implements it. It's also important. It is often when some commit abuses, that public opinion tends to generalize, whereas these are often extremely minority events. It's also kind of the meaning of my question. I am not here to defend her, but I do not think that the minister has a provocative attitude either. In any case, the medical corps, which I also know well, did not feel that way, but as a way of putting the clocks back on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u82	Mr President, this question will please Mrs Fonck since the CDH wanted to put it on the agenda of the Opinion Committee on Social Empowerment as a matter of priority. But since the CDH was not present in committee to defend its proposal, it will not be accepted. Minister, once again, the issue of prostitution has recently come to the fore following the advertising campaign of a website inviting students to register to attend Sugar Daddy. Beyond the problem of student prostitution, I would like to come back with you to the issue of prostitution in general. I had previously addressed a similar question to the Minister of Justice, who recommended that I address you. Minister, the situation in our country remains unclear with regard to prostitution. At a time when some European countries have decided to follow the path of a ban, while others, like our Dutch neighbours, have decided to regulate this phenomenon, we are in a more complex situation. Indeed, since 1948, only articles 379 et seq. of the Criminal Code have dealt with the issue. They do not suppress prostitution as such, but rather a series of behaviours that surround this activity. Belgium therefore pursues a policy of tolerance towards prostitution. Yet there is no legal status for prostitutes. They are estimated to be around 20,000, 80 per cent of whom are women. This would represent one in every 100 women. Without status, these people find themselves particularly poor and unprotected. Minister, without entering into a moral discussion but taking a pragmatic stance, what is your position on this issue? Are you considering changing legislation in this area? If so, in what sense? I am also thinking of the problem of "coachers" or "mackerels". Since you are also Minister of Health, it is also important that health checks be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u83	Mr Flahaux, the fact that there is no specific social status for a given activity does not mean that the persons who carry out this activity do not enjoy any social protection. These persons then fall under the general rule and, as with any other activity, it will be necessary to determine on the basis of the concrete situation whether the person concerned is an employed person or an independent person. In the case of a contract of employment, i.e. if the three elements of an employment contract are present, i.e. wages, benefits and authority, the person concerned is subject to the social security scheme for employed persons. The employer will then have to pay contributions and the worker will acquire social rights through this employment. Although prostitution goes hand in hand with criminal acts, social security contributions are still due. If there is no employment contract, it is necessary to check whether the conditions are met in order to be considered independent. If necessary, the person concerned will have to join as an independent person and pay contributions as such. The various social inspection services are responsible for monitoring the rules. Other elements are important. We are working on this, including funding for people who work with prostitutes. We're making good progress. So far, there are not too many problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u84	I thank the minister for her response, which shows that she is fully aware of the situation and that she is trying to improve things. That is common sense. The situation is better at home than in France, where the customer is even criminalized. However, it is well known that prostitution still exists in practice. So it's better to regularize things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u85	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I asked two different questions. One was addressed to you as Minister of Social Affairs. The other was addressed to Minister Kris Peeters. Unfortunately, I see that this issue has been referred back to you, when it was formulated differently according to the Minister's jurisdiction. I will therefore first ask the question that was addressed to you in its own right. I was recently questioned by a councillor on the communal council that I chair. As a future mother, she raised the incompatibility between receiving maternity benefits and participating in the board. Since then, she hasn't been sitting. Meanwhile, she had her baby, and fortunately, since it was October 5. The Coordinated Act of 14 July 1994 on Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance provides that local female agents who are in maternity protection are unable to continue to carry out their duties. In the event that the activity is not terminated, the compensation is no longer due. In fact, young mothers therefore have a ban on sitting, which I find scandalous. This situation raises two questions. First, how can we justify preventing an elected person from exercising his or her fundamental right, that of exercising the mandate entrusted to him or her by the citizens? This can also cause organisational problems within the council of its municipality. This is not the case with mine, but it may be a problem in the case of communes where the majority are schep, if I may say so, to a seat nearby, and this one is occupied precisely by a young mother. Secondly, how can such a situation be justified at a time when there is a plea for ever greater mix at the political level? Is this not a hindrance for many women wanting to engage in politics at the local level? Minister, what is your position on this issue? What can you do to eventually change the situation? I continue with my question to Minister Peeters. The introduction is generally the same. This status will have to be removed from the current framework of paid employment. That's what I was thinking to Minister Peeters. I asked him what avenues could be considered to change this status and to allow women on medical certificates to nevertheless assume their political commitments. What would happen to an amateur football dad on paternity leave, who would win a game bonus? Should he also refrain from serving his club? It's not just about women. This could potentially affect men. I'll give you the hot potato, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u86	Mr. President, Mr. Flahaux, thank you. It is important to remember that the maternity rest period does not constitute a period of incapacity for work within the meaning of the allowance insurance, but rather a period of maternity protection. This maternity protection measure has the dual objective of enabling both the physiological recovery of the mother and the reception of the child. The legislator thus sought to promote the mother's complete rest by granting her a specific replacement income. In the scheme for salaried workers, this period of maternity protection consists of a compulsory rest period covering, on the one hand, the week immediately preceding the presumed date of birth and, on the other hand, the compulsory postnatal rest of nine weeks taking place on the day of delivery, as well as an optional rest period covering the remaining five weeks, which may be taken before or after the birth. Compulsory rest periods are covered by a prohibition on working in labour law. And when the worker requests her optional maternity leave, it is not possible, under the current health and disability insurance legislation, to pursue an activity during that period. Article 115 of the Health and Disability Insurance Act states that the period of maternity rest may be used only if the holder has ceased any activity. Before clarifying what is meant by "activity" within the meaning of this insurance, it is important to recall the objective pursued by the legislator and which was the basis for the adoption of this Article 115, namely that maternity allowance constitutes a replacement income intended to promote the full rest of the mother. Indeed, the condition of termination of any activity is justified both by the nature of the benefit granted and by the purpose pursued, namely the protection of maternity. The concept of inactivity which is referred to must be understood in a broad sense and not only covers gainful activities but also any type of activity, whether remunerated or not, which applies to employed and self-employed persons. In addition, it is important to specify that this condition of cessation of any activity is not only required during a period of maternity rest but also for the award of an allowance in connection with a birth or paternity leave. This allowance shall be awarded under the same conditions as those laid down for the grant of the maternity allowance. This equality also applies to young fathers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u87	Madam Minister, thank you. Indeed, paternity leave is equivalent to maternity leave except that it is much shorter; therefore, the problem arises less long. The best is the enemy of good, as they say. However, paradoxically, these young women participate in the political meetings of their locals while breastfeeding their babies sometimes but cannot attend the meetings of the communal council. This is not a question of money; many of them would attend the communal council without emolument. I would also remind you that your French colleague from Justice, Rachida Dati, resumed his professional activities two days after his delivery. Today, women are solid and well in their skin. This positive protection measure could be perceived as discriminatory. I will therefore come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u88	Debates of the European Parliament 21467 by Mrs Catherine Fonck will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u89	Madam Minister, at the end of November, you launched the idea of keeping pregnant women at work longer by stating that, in your opinion, they should not take leave if their health and that of the baby were not compromised and if they could be assigned to another task in the same company or elsewhere. In your view, this would save money in terms of health care insurance, as they would continue to receive their wages. You added that this would be a very good thing for women workers themselves, as they receive only 78% of the gross salary when they are on prenatal leave. In addition, during their absence, they would lack some opportunities for promotion. Minister, what would be the order of magnitude of the savings resulting from such a measure? Have you ever prepared a budget calculation in this regard? Have you discussed this with the social partners? If not, will you consult them? Will the pregnant woman be able to choose to continue working under other circumstances? Was this not just a decision made by the occupational doctor? Do you intend to punish pregnant women if they refuse to continue their work, especially if they are offered a suitable function? Finally, what do you think about the risk that employers will put pressure on them to agree to continue their work, when this would be medically contraindicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u90	Mr Van Hees, Mrs Ben Hamou of the PS, asked exactly the same question during the plenary session on 30 November. I could therefore only repeat my reply given on the same day and available in the full report. So I can pass it on to you, because it's pointless to repeat myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u91	Maybe there's something new, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u92	It was the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u93	There may have been some new developments since then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u94	No, not at all. In a few weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u95	There's no extra news. Non bis in idem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u96	Budgetaryly, for example...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u97	It's no use. You shouldn't try, it won't work. It's the same question. So you'll get the same answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u98	There's only five weeks in between.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u99	Can I still reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u100	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u101	I'm listening to the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u102	I think you were there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u103	Yeah, I was there, but there may be some news.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u104	Stop it. Replicate!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u105	I believe that budgetary problems should not be solved to the detriment of the health of young mothers or their babies. Only a doctor at work can determine whether an employee should be removed from work. Neither the employee herself nor the employer are competent. This situation is problematic because these workers are already more vulnerable and in a weaker position to say no to the employer. There is a risk that the employee may overestimate herself or underestimate the health risks and the risks to her baby in order to keep her job. These pregnant women already have a great sense of guilt. Allowing them to decide themselves will only increase this risk. I think we're really in a situation that risks taking a step backwards in maternity protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u106	Questions Nos 22174, 22175, 22176, 22177 and 22196 by Mrs Van Peel are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u107	Mr President, Minister, following on from the discussion of the programme law on extending the scope of flexi-jobs, I asked you about the state of play of the royal decree referred to in Article 24 of the Law on various provisions on social affairs of 16 November 2015. That Article lays down the following: "The employer using flexi-job workers must use a system which records and maintains for each individual flexi-job employee the correct time of beginning and end of the work performance. The King shall determine, by decision adopted after consultation of the Council of Ministers, the detailed conditions to be met by the system referred to in paragraph 1. The King shall also determine, by decision adopted after consultation in the Council of Ministers, how long the recorded data shall be stored." You replied that the royal decree was not at issue. During the discussion of the Minister of Work's policy paper, I asked for his views on this issue. I wasn't alone with my concern. I quote from the report a passage by Mr Vercamer: 'The success of flexi-jobs in the hospitality sector is due not only to the work arrangements created, but also to the introduction of registration systems and white checkouts. With regard to the extension of flexi-jobs, the speaker wondered whether it would not be appropriate to introduce similar counselling measures." The answer of the Minister for Work was as follows, and I quote again from the report: "The Minister states that, according to Article 27, the draft programme law should include time recording. He assumes that everyone will implement it when the law is passed. Article 27 of the Royal Decree of 16 May 2003 implementing Chapter 7 of Title IV of the Programme Act of 24 December 2002 on the harmonisation and simplification of the arrangements for the reduction of social security contributions or the use of the equipment referred to in Article 164 of the Programme Act, therefore reads as follows: "A registration pursuant to Article 28/10, Paragraph 2 of the Royal Decree of 16 May 2003 implementing Chapter 7 of the Programme Act of 24 December 2002 on the harmonisation and simplification of the arrangements for the reduction of social security contributions or the use of the equipment referred to in Article 164 of the Programme Act, shall replace the obligation to register as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. My questions are as follows. Firstly, do you confirm the reply of your colleague, in particular that at the time of the extension of the flexi-work there will have to be either a white register or a time record? Secondly, do you confirm the reply of your colleague, in particular that at the time of enlargement, users of the flexiwork must have either a white register or a time record or a device made available by the RSZ? Does that imply, on the other hand, that, in the absence of a royal order, which is also required under Article 24 to fix the period of retention of the data, the records must be kept in accordance with the conditions laid down in Articles 167 and 168 of the Law of 22 December 1989?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u108	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, we made it clear during the discussions in this committee that there should indeed be a possibility of registration, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 16 May 2013, either via a white checkout or an alternative system of attendance registration, which is made available by the RSZ and offers the same guarantees. There was also no need for an additional royal decision. In those provisions, the employer has the choice between the different forms of time registration that already exist, being the registered cash register and an alternative system of daily presence registration by the web application developed by the RSZ in the framework of the workforce, where a daydimona is equivalent. If there is no registered cash register, you can therefore use the day dimona or the specific application from the staff. We have added a new possibility to this by means of the Programme Act, namely the devices referred to in Article 164 of the Programme Act of 22 December 1989. However, these should not be issued by the RSZ. Since this registration contained in paragraph 2 deviates from paragraph 1, the provision which states that a royal decree lays down the retention period does not apply. The data recorded by the apparatus in question shall be kept in accordance with the provisions of application to such apparatus and, in particular, Articles 167 and 168 of the Programme Act of 22 December 1989.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u109	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. This is different from the answer given by the Minister of Work, which is why I questioned you about it. I will read the answer very carefully, and if there are any questions left, I will come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u110	We come to today's last question, which is a question from Mr Spoorten. Mr Spoorten, I give you the floor for your question and I would ask you to chair the sitting. You may be able to observe the Presidency from your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u111	Président: Jan Spooren.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u112	Madam Secretary, this is a follow-up question. On 20 January 2016, I questioned you about the fact that DIBISS works exclusively with Belfius as a financial institution. You replied that the reasons were historical and that opening up to other financial institutions would involve significant investment costs. In your reply, you rightly referred to the fact that DIBISS would be integrated into the RSZ from 1 January 2017, which also happened successfully. In the context of that merger, you replied that the exclusivity of the direct debit via Belfius Bank could be reversed. There would be harmonisation. The aim was to open the direct debit system to all financial institutions without maintaining an exclusivity contract. Madam Secretary, what is the state of this harmonisation project? Does the contract with Belfius still exist and is it still exclusive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u113	Mr Spooren, as I said last year, the exclusivity of Belfius and, more specifically, its abolition is being considered in the context of the integration and harmonisation of the management of the employers' accounts of the former DIBISS with the employers' accounts at the RSZ. For several reasons, this is an extensive project. The current system of the RSZ was created in 1979. About 3 000 employers' accounts at the level of the former DIBISS and about 900 000 employers' accounts at the RSZ should be integrated into the new system. The daily collection of social security contributions should not be compromised. Prior to the project of integration and harmonisation of the management of the employer accounts of the former DIBISS with the employer accounts at the RSZ, two sub-projects should first be identified. A first sub-project concerns the alignment and integration of account management with two other databases managed by the RSZ, namely the Employers' Directory, which contains metadata at company level, and the DmfA, which contains the employers' quarterly declaration to the RSZ, which contains the details of the social security declaration. The analysis to guide this sub-project has now begun. The second sub-project concerns the modernisation of employers' schemes at RSZ, including the creation of a new database that is more flexible and able to meet specific needs, in particular employers' accounts ex-DIBISS, as well as the modernisation of the application of account management, including the management of collection and charging of payments resulting from direct debit. This project was launched in 2016 and will be finalised during the first quarter of this year. The RSZ will soon start with the business analyses linked to the management of the employers' accounts ex-DIBISS and the exclusivity via Belfius.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u114	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I have no further comment on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u115	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 22824 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-09-54-commissie-ic792x.u116	Mr President, 16 questions were not asked.
