ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Schoubs, who will present us with the audit. We do not need a rapporteur because there is an integral report. There are also oral questions linked to the discussion of the audit. Mrs Schoubs will have the floor first. Then the Minister, the Members of Parliament who have put questions and the other colleagues will follow. The Minister has assured us that we will have all the time we need. I propose that we first listen to Mrs Schoubs and explain the two audit reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u2	Madam President, members of the committee, good morning. We come to propose the results of the two audits carried out by the Federal Internal Audit Service within the BFSA. The audits were ordered by the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Agriculture. The first audit concerned the organisation within the BFSA, in particular the organisational structure, roles, responsibilities, communication and compliance with the relevant legal provisions. The second audit was on the control processes in the meat sector. There we looked at how programming, planning, carrying out and monitoring the checks within the BFSA is done. During the audit, we mainly tried to find a balance between checking documents, conducting interviews and field visits, both with a number of focus groups from the organisation and with a number of external stakeholders. The audit was based on a number of research questions. For the organizational audit, we looked in particular at the functioning of the various committees and committees. We have also looked at the structure of the organisation, whether it is in line with the mission and activities, the relationship with the external parties, the crisis management, see if the BFSA is able to realize the mission with the available resources today. We have looked at communication policy and whether the way in which one works happens in an effective and efficient way. For the audit of the control processes, we looked at the programming and planning of the controls, the carrying out, reporting and monitoring of the checks, the planning of the analyses by the labs and the communication and cooperation in the framework of the controls. As a main conclusion from both audits, we can say that there are a number of strong and some weaker points within the functioning of the BFSA. The second audit showed that since its inception the BFSA has been strongly focused on formalising its functioning in processes and procedures, according to the legal requirements and the applicable ISO standards and regulations, placing the bar very high in respecting the rules and applying them. However, this multitude of rules means that the quantity of activities threatens to affect quality. For the future, a better balance would be sought between the two aspects. A more risk-based approach could improve overall operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u3	Ma'am, are these slides available for sharing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u4	I passed it on yesterday. They're supposed to be scattered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u5	We'll print out the slides and distribute them. Excuse me for interrupting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u6	One element that emerged from the first audit was crisis management. If one looks today at the operation of the BFSA, one can see that there is a multitude of information, a detailed crisis structure and approach. When there is a crisis somewhere, it will be dealt with in a good way. Where we see opportunities for improvement is in the potential to capture crisis signals, to act more proactively in this way when a potential crisis is emerging and before the incident is classified as a real crisis. In general, we see that there is a lot of communication today from the BFSA. There is a mass of information available on their website, but little attention is paid to the image and the exact positioning of the BFSA vis-à-vis consumers and stakeholders. The two audits have shown that cooperation with and information flow to external parties, but also internal, can be improved. It seems appropriate to review the division of responsibilities between the Directorate-General for Control and the Directorate-General for Control. Today there are some tensions within the organization. We believe that these tensions between the two managements, which are normal between the DGC and the DGCB, should remain secondary to achieving the overall objective of the BFSA. We will now go into more detail on the two audits. Firstly, the organisational audit. Within the organisation audit, there were a number of strengths that we certainly want to emphasise. We see that the BFSA has organised itself to achieve the mission and objectives imposed by law. On this point, the BFSA certainly follows the legal requirements. The analysis and inspection programme is risk driven and based on a broad input from various societal and scientific sources. There is also a lot of contact with the sector organisation on a formal or informal basis. The risk-driven programme to be drawn up shall be based in particular on risk or inspection frequency at the level of an activity. The NOE has today a team that has a great research experience, is also involved in various consultation structures and is part of an international collaboration. When one looks at the whole, with a risk-driven control programme, the existence of guidelines, a technical training offer and a large body of internal and external experts for carrying out the inspections and the lab analyses, all elements are present today that enable the BFSA to accomplish its mission. The detailed crisis structure and approach that we see at the time of a crisis and the multitude of published information clearly show that the BFSA has the will to work in a transparent manner and communicate to the outside world. Possible points for improvement that we have seen mainly concern the different forms of cooperation of the BFSA with both the FPS Public Health and with Justice and Police. We see that agreements are still lacking today and that food safety is not a priority in the National Safety Plan today. This leads to a delay in the handling of the files, especially in the case of Veviba. The differences in the size and breadth of the different managements at the BFSA, together with the operating and decision autonomy, give rise to a certain silo culture within the organisation, which currently has an impact on the collaboration and information flow between the managements. This is particularly the case between the Control Directorate and the Control Policy Directorate. We believe that improvements could be made there. The BFSA is currently experiencing difficulties in capturing potential crisis signals in a structured way. There are crisis signals, but one does not really have a way of capturing the crisis signals in time and dealing with them in a proactive way. The NOE is only conducting notification-driven fraud investigations today. It does not always have sufficient resources today either. Additional funds have now been committed, but in the past they have not always had sufficient resources. As a result, it was not able to carry out trend analyses in the field of fraud. Nor does it have access to modern detection and investigation techniques necessary to detect contemporary fraud. After all, that world has also evolved. Other points for improvement include the composition and organisation of the various committees set up by the BFSA. We are thinking of the advisory committee, the scientific committee, the professional committee, the evaluation committee. We believe that the composition and legislation in this area should be re-assessed. We also believe that the roles and responsibilities between the Agency and the Minister should be defined and better aligned. The introduction of the processes to meet the Minister's information needs must certainly be taken into account, so that he can perform his task properly. In communication, more attention should also be paid to the image and positioning of the BFSA vis-à-vis the outside world, namely consumers and operators. These were the main points from the first audit, the organisational audit. What are the conclusions of the audit on the control processes? There are some strengths. We see that the BFSA is working today with a quality management and accreditation system. It follows the different standards that apply. For the planning of the inspection it relies on its own analyses, previous inspection results, legal obligations. This will lead to an inspection programme, which will be carried out by the Control Directorate. An inspector doesn't just go on the premises. He must be competent and everything is done according to proper procedures. In addition, the standards are followed so that the inspector, before he goes on the ground, has also been declared effective. The BFSA has all the legal requirements that need to be checked on a particular theme, included in different checklists. It has also taken a number of important steps in the computerisation of these field control processes and these are seen as positive by the inspectors on the ground. I now give a number of points to improve the control processes. We notice that the BFSA sets the bar very high for itself in terms of following all the rules and checking all the points put forward in the checklists. We have found that the quantity of activity threatens its quality. We would like to say that the inspectors who are going on the ground today have a very long checklist of points that they need to check so that they do not have to check with more depth the various aspects that need to be looked at on the ground. There should therefore be a better balance between these two aspects. This could have a positive impact on overall operation. We believe that opportunities for this are in the more risk-based and modular way of working according to the content of inspection missions, so that they are more focused and can be made less time intensive, especially since the scope of the checklist does not leave room for punctual and more targeted depth during inspections today. The planning of the inspection missions today is mainly based on content and frequency, but takes little or limited account of the operator's real risk profile. A number of elements are charged, however, to give a certain profile to an operator. However, this could go further by taking other aspects into account, such as the size of an operator and financial aspects. We have already mentioned other points for improvement. This includes strengthening the measure to increase the reliability of the results of the auto-audits carried out by the OCIs. Today the OCIs do the certification or validation of the various car control systems. We believe that the BFSA certainly has a greater role to play in this respect; it should verify that the validations and certifications are done in a correct manner. We also believe that the sharing of knowledge between inspectors, as well as between inspectors and the various MET claims, veterinary surgeons with a certain mission on the ground, should be strengthened. We also consider it important to monitor the unannounced nature of the inspection missions. During the audit, we saw and heard in the field that the unannounced character is not always respected. For inspections carried out by veterinarians mainly on hygiene and infrastructure and of a very volatile nature, it is very important that inspections are carried out unannounced. We also believe that it is necessary to review the MET evaluation procedures. On the ground, we have acknowledged that there are sometimes doubts as to the quality of the work carried out by MET. Today, this represents a cost of 26 million in service services for the BFSA. We believe that if such a sum of money is spent on service, we must be assured of the quality of service. The possible review of the ongoing evaluation procedures should therefore be pursued in order to ensure greater certainty as to the quality of the performance of MET. We also believe that information between the different parties, the BFSA, the independent contract holders or MET, the OCIs and the labs should be better shared. In this way, a larger source of information can be used and, thanks to this more extensive information, a better understanding of the risk profile of the various operators. Finally, we also believe that a proportionate and dissuasive nature of the fines and a legal basis for the BFSA to enforce those fines would help the Agency to function. If the BFSA imposes a fine on an operator, it may take effective measures to effectively remedy the alleged infringement. Measures must be taken to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u7	Madam President, Minister, excuse me, I would like to speak on the organisation of work. Madam presented the audit but we do not know its place in the structure. Who exactly is she? Is it an external or internal auditor? Where is it located? Under whose responsibility? Could we have more details on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u9	I would like to know more about the person with whom we are discussing and who was not introduced to us, Mr. Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u10	Mrs. Schoubs, can you tell me what assignment you have?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u11	My name is Ann Schoubs and I'm the head of the Federal Internal Audit Service. I have responsibility for the execution of the two audits carried out within the BFSA. The Federal Internal Audit Service operates independently of all federal government institutions. Our mission is to check whether risk management within the entities is properly done, whether internal controls are in place, and whether there are opportunities for efficiency and effectiveness improvement in the various entities of the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u12	Is that an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u13	Madam Chair, would I have wanted to know if she was an internal or external member of the AFSCA? As I understand it, she is a member of the federal government but external to the PSAB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u14	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u15	Madam President, Mr de Lamotte, I believe that the question was quite appropriate. As a result of the frauds found on the Veviba website, I had, as early as 12 March of this year, indicated to your committee that it was, in my opinion, necessary to carry out two external, objective, independent audits. And on 16 March, the Council of Ministers endorsed my proposal. As you know, the first audit should focus on the Agency's internal organisation and the second on its control processes in the meat sector. The implementation of these two audits was entrusted to the IAF, the Federal Internal Audit Service. In order to provide the necessary technical expertise within the audit teams, the ISP, following a public procurement procedure, has joined the services of two external consulting offices, PwC and Lloyds. It is in this sense, Mr. de Lamotte, that these two audits are very external. On 21 March, I committed myself to presenting these audits, their lessons and the political vision to be drawn from them to Parliament for the sake of transparency. Madam President, here we are. Let me say at the outset that I am very pleased to have requested these audits, but even more so to see the results. This is a great deal of work that has been done by the auditors, and I would like to thank and congratulate them on their work, which will be of great benefit to us in the coming months. It is also a high quality work because it is nuanced. It marks the points of strength, the positive points and also highlights a number of avenues for improvement. It was suggested that the audit could be presented late in the summer. It is a little later, but you will agree that it was necessary to give the auditors the time to work even more in depth, that is to say to meet the agents of the AFSCA, to have the exchanges with the social partners but also with the stakeholders and the top management. This allows us today to have a clear vision of the organization, as well as recommendations that are also very specific and that relate to the functioning of the Agency, to its control procedures, to its forces, with avenues for improvement; all of this, with the aim of further raising our level of security. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these audits are an opportunity for us to further strengthen our food safety and the protection of consumer health, which remain our top priority; but it is also an opportunity for the stakeholders to improve their collaboration with the Agency, also with this work carried out in the monitoring and advisory relationship, sometimes with the stakeholders. So this is an opportunity for AFSCA. I said this on 21 March during our exchange, in a particular and tense situation, as a result of the fraud of the Veviba company. I said at the time that we should be careful not to hunt witches, that we should avoid shortcuts, caricatures, and simply give the possibility, through these audits, to improve our Agency. Today we have an excellent food agency. It is a very good instrument, one of the best in Europe. Can we do better? Yes, that is the meaning of the 96 recommendations in the audits, which will allow the BFSA to become even more performant. While the BFSA can be improved, it is also an instrument that we must retain. It must be able to continue to play its key role, which is of fundamental importance, that of the security guard of our food safety. Before going into more detail on the substance of the matter, I would suggest that you briefly return to the context in which the audtis was asked. This will give us a better picture of the reforms outlined by the audits. I will not go back in detail on the findings made during the searches of February 28th and March 1st 2018 on the site of the company Veviba. In particular, we are abstaining from recycling waste in the food chain that was unfit for human consumption. In addition to that infringement, the judicial investigation has also identified other defects of different kinds, such as the indication of freezing dates after the dates of the searches, sometimes several months later, or such as expired products, frozen since 2001, or still products without labelling and thus without traceability. The judicial investigation is continuing. So I will not go back on those elements. However, on 21 March last I mentioned a number of areas for reflection, eight months after taking over the political responsibility of the Agency. There's probably one or the other skeptical in the room. I invite him to find the elements I had cited in the full reports. These elements are also partly pointed out in the context of the audits. It is a good thing to see the audits join certain ideas, conclusions and exchanges that had fed into our discussions. The first aspect that I would like to stress is the role that the AFSCA can or must play when an instruction is opened. This concerns the articulation of its administrative action with the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the context of ongoing judicial investigations. I am not going to repeat the details, but the first information dates back to October 3, 2016. A report of the infringement shall be drawn up in Kosovo. Nothing finally happens in the AFSCA's proper field of work, until the search that lasted from February 28 to March 1, 2018. You will agree, it was one of the nodes of the problem and that was a priority. In this sense, in early summer, with the assistance of Minister Geens, I organized a meeting with the AFSCA and the College of Attorneys General to take steps to prevent this type of situation from happening again. Within this framework, the work has progressed. AFSCA's ability to act will be better defined in the case of a judicial investigation. The College of Attorneys General is currently finalizing a circular that will provide a quick response to the audit findings. The aim is that the AFSCA may, in some cases, continue to communicate at the political level, to take measures for food security, even if it works as part of a judicial investigation. It was fundamental. The problem gap, which emerged from October 2016 to March 2018, should no longer be repeated. The other element I highlighted at the time was that we need to make sure that food security issues go back to the order of priorities. I had already argued in favour of introducing food security issues into the National Security Plan. As you know, what appears in it is treated as a matter of priority by the justice and police services. I note that the audits also highlight this need, which I believe is a good thing. A third aspect was highlighted. It's about self-control. Some audit findings are, at this level, interesting or even challenging. We need to work to improve our self-control system, which is a good system that deserves improvement. I would remind you that it was through self-checking that we were able to detect fipronil fraud. The audit's findings in this regard therefore seem to me to be particularly interesting. I come to another point which I have already noted in our exchanges. This relates to the size of the operator and the number of controllers. In this regard, a number of elements of the audit agree with my findings at the time. Indeed, I believe that the AFSCA – and we will see to it – must see its control policy evolve according to the size of the operators. One point was also the subject of many discussions last March, Madam President. It focused on the capacity of the National Investigation Unit (UNE), both in terms of techniques and financial means to respond to the need to strengthen staff. The UNE must have the legal tools to fully fulfil its mission. In view of the elements relating to this meat that had been exported to Kosovo, we had obviously addressed the issues surrounding the export certificate. A number of information contained in this audit will enable us, I am sure, to improve our methods and policies in this area. We had already reached some conclusions last March on the need to strengthen the UNE and to carry out additional controls in the meat sector. I would like to recall here, Madam President, that with the envelope that I had been able to obtain following the budgetary conclave of March, I have invested EUR 2 million for these additional controls. I need to inform you of their results. Thanks to the 1,531 strengthened controls that were organized (in three waves), we were able to see a halving of the number of non-compliance cases. When I talk about "reinforced controls," I'm not talking about "additional controls." As can be seen, the steps taken in this regard were necessary. I now come to the results of the audits, to the lessons we need to learn. The two audits were submitted to the Council of Ministers last Friday 30 November. The government has approved them, both the positive findings and the identified possible improvements and recommendations resulting from them. The FIA has already pointed out that these audits focus primarily on the qualities of the works and the people of the BFSA, on their expertise. I want to honor their ability. Moreover, the organisational audit opens with a positive conclusion for the BFSA which deserves to be emphasised. I quote: 'The agency has organised itself to achieve the mission and objectives imposed by law'. The Agency has organized its operations in order to carry out the missions and achieve the objectives imposed by law. This is one of the fundamental lessons learned from these audits. Subsequently, the following aspects have had an impact on the efficiency and effectiveness of certain files or transactions, but they have not prevented the achievement of the mission and its objectives at all. I would also like to return briefly to some of the strengths of the agency mentioned by the auditors. Firstly, as regards expertise, whether it be from inspectors or laboratories. Then on transparency, which is reflected in the publication of a large amount of information for the consumer. The consultations held regularly with the sector. The existence of an independent and performing ombud service. The effort to digitise control processes which now offers global analysis possibilities. The fact that inspectors must be declared competent in advance in accordance with the shared standards before they can carry out an inspection in a given domain. Or even, the quality of the analyses carried out by his labs. In the field of communication, the auditors underline the involvement of experts in communication to consumers. In addition to these positive points, the audits identified a number of possible improvements. I now turn to the avenues for improvement. As is the practice in such situations, the Council of Ministers has decided to set up a steering committee. This committee, under the direction of the Minister of Agriculture, will be responsible for the development and implementation of the reforms. We ensured that the steering committee's composition reflected the spirit of these audits by taking the opportunity to work with, not against, the CBSA. As we can see from the positive points expressed by the audits, the important improvements that result, these audits are not a sanction. It is an opportunity for us to make ourselves even more efficient. As a result, ASCFA will be reassured, associated and an integral part of this steering committee. In addition to the AFSCA, you will naturally find in this steering committee, the IAF, DG4, the FPS Public Health. Depending on the recommendations, which cover a broad spectrum, including stakeholder issues, other stakeholders may be involved. The auditors have identified as many as 96 recommendations that can be combined in a dozen areas on which the steering committee will have to work in the coming weeks, already, and in the coming months. The first is the need to re-establish food security as a real priority of the national security plan. As defined in the audits, the current situation was already the same under the Di Rupo government. The failure to link security and food security issues is a weakness. I have already spoken on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u16	Minister, the interpreter has a lot of trouble with the sound. There's a technical problem. Is there a cell phone anywhere near the micro? Someone's coming from the help desk. The only question is how long it's gonna take for this to be resolved. Is it too bad to keep going? I'm getting the signal that we're allowed to continue. They're doing their best.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u17	Another element that is highlighted in these audits and another focus on which we will have to work is the crisis management, the detection of crisis signals, the activation of the crisis cell in the event of a crisis or incident, the definition of what a crisis is. With the steering committee, we will have a job and a choice to do in this context. We will also see if we need to change the crisis management of the AFSCA through the establishment of a permanent crisis centre. The question will be asked in the steering committee. A third essential axis relates to the adjustment of the controls to the size of the operator, but also concerns everything relating to the need to better determine the operator's profile. This means having a more dynamic approach to control and checklists that can base the controls not systematically across the board but by structuring checklists, based on industry or operator-specific risk analyses. This is a proposal which is made in the audits and which gives us a prospect of evolution in terms of the rather fundamental control policy which could, moreover, in a number of cases, save time for the auditors and inspectors of the AFSCA rather than systematically operate the whole control in a cross-sectional way, even when we know that on a number of scopes there are less risks. It is also an approach to the control policy that would include a number of smaller additional scopes that are also linked to the issue of risk analysis. You will have seen it and it is particularly interesting, these audits offer us to rely more on risk analysis. This is a fundamental approach on which, I think, the steering committee will be able to work as a matter of priority. During our discussion last March, we noted a number of proposals and comments provided by the audits on the internal and external communication of the AFSCA. They acknowledged that some improvements had been made in terms of external communication, but stressed the lack of a communication programme and evaluation of its effects. They therefore believe that work on the communication strategy should continue as a matter of priority. With regard to internal communication and collaboration - and you will certainly go back to it, honourable Members - audits are a matter of organizational and operational problems for the AFSCA. The terms "culture of partitioning" are discussed, as are certain tensions. Therefore, it will naturally be for the Steering Committee to take swift steps to resolve these important problems. We will need to find a solution without delay if we are to steer AFSCA fully towards a culture of performance in this area. I have already mentioned this: another area of work concerns self-control procedures. We will return if you wish. The relationship with other actors in food security is discussed. The AFSCA is the pillar, the guardian of food security, but it works with the police, customs, private agencies. It is a matter of further formalizing the relationship between AFSCA and these other actors in food security; and sometimes, through this formalization, to determine more precisely the role of each. The steering committee will also have to work on this. On reading this audit, you will also have pointed out another important area of work: the collaborative relationship between the other control actors (other than AFSCA supervisors or inspectors). Of course, I am thinking of mission managers, who are more important than in the past. As you know, there was a decrease of about 80 AFSCA personnel. In concrete terms, there are no fewer controls. There are even extra checks. There is an additional recourse to mission officers. But collaboration, exchange of information and the provision of information from mission managers to a database that needs to be set up is not now at a level that can be expected from AFSCA. It will therefore be necessary to clarify a number of things on how the work of the mission officers is carried out on the ground, on how they trace information, on how they are perceived or not, as independent. Other aspects were also pointed out. Control is also the organisation of work around labels by certification bodies. They're actors in control. They must be brought closer to the AFSCA, in particular for the exchange of information. Audits point to significant deficiencies in this area. Another element was identified, which was essential in the course of these audits. It relates to what needs to be done to better combat fraud. It is therefore necessary to improve the functioning of the National Survey Unit (UNE). A number of recommendations are very important, beyond what has been planned in budgetary terms with the opening of procedures. I can tell you that in January and February 2019 there will already be three additional full-time equivalents at the UNE level. We will continue this work in order, as pointed out in the audit reports, to reduce the deficit compared with, for example, the Dutch Agency in terms of staff. The UN must be able to have more inspectors. Budget arrangements have been made to this effect. But that doesn't stop there. The UNE inspectors must also be given the opportunity to finally get out of the paper age and to have the technological means that will enable them to be truly up to the challenge of fraudsters, particularly in terms of logistics. We must ask ourselves, given the risk of these inspectors, about the amount of their emoluments. We will also have to give the UNE, which is now dependent on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the means that will enable it to implement the sanctions. Thus, for example, the UNE cannot, today, ask a bailiff to collect the proceeds of an administrative fine from an operator. This is a question of legal developments requiring a number of adaptations. It was also said during the audit, and I quote: "In view of the fact that the BFSA is a parastatal A, the Minister has direct management powers." Recently, an instruction was proposed by the cabinet to meet the Minister's information needs, which had not yet been signed by the agent step. The Agency should continue to implement appropriate processes for this purpose. This can also be done through a representation of the Minister on the Management Committee. The steering committee will certainly have to examine this option. As mentioned during the audits, I have given a series of instructions to the BFSA on communication and powers. As far as laboratories are concerned, we know that they occupy an important place with regard to the auto-control processes initially introduced by the operators. In particular, the audits underline, and I quote again: 'In view of the importance of reliable analyses in the context of an auto-control system, quality minima can increase the reliability of these systems'. The audits also point out that operators are subject to an obligation to provide information when their analyses prove to be inconsistent. In this respect, Belgium goes beyond the European obligations in this area, and we can only welcome that. The audits draw up a series of recommendations to allow the Agency to have more information on these analyses in order to better dust their own risk analysis. The audits also emphasise the importance of ensuring the independence of laboratories for counter-expertises and national reference laboratories vis-à-vis the first-line laboratories. The Steering Committee will also have to consider the implementation of these possible improvements. I come to my conclusion. These audits, as I said, have not been put in place against, but for, and above all with, our Federal Food Security Agency. We saw some movements in March, which I don't want to see again. Some wanted to designate the Federal Food Security Agency as responsible for fraud. No. Fraud is the responsibility of fraudsters. Our obligation is to detect it more quickly. I sincerely believe that these audits and the work we are going to do will give us more tools to detect fraud faster. The audits were presented. Everyone will formulate their own reading of this work, which I consider extremely important for the future of our food security. What's going to happen? What's next? I don't want to lie to anyone. It's a real work site. It is therefore essential that it starts as soon as possible. This is why the first meeting of the Steering Committee will already be held next week to begin work on the implementation of the recommendations and improvement measures of the PSAB. There was no question that I would approve a business plan 2018-2020 while audits were under way. I have asked AFSCA to attach to the business plan all the recommendations and elements relating to the decision of the Council of Ministers last Friday. As you will have seen, it clearly states the need to implement the recommendations. This will therefore be part of the business plan as long as we finally have the various recommendations. As we know, politics and reforms are not only done with good will. We also need resources. That is why I have ensured that an additional EUR 2 million has been obtained in connection with the implementation of the audit recommendations for the AFSCA. I'm going to recapitulate because since I've been in charge, the AFSCA budget has increased. I'm going to raise it again, but not just for a year. The two million euros that I released for the additional checks in March are recurrent, as are those that I released in the context of implementing the audit recommendations. This means that there will be an additional EUR 4 million in 2019 and that this will continue to be the case thereafter. This is my commitment because I realize that additional resources will be needed if we are to turn audits into reality. For the Minister of Agriculture, who leads the steering committee, it will be a matter of keeping the government informed on a quarterly basis of the progress of the implementation of the recommendations by the audit committee. In addition, I wish to continue to work in full transparency with Parliament. Madam President, if you agree, I would like to transmit to your committee a report on the progress of the steering committee's work. This is the least that Parliament can see as the recommendations are implemented and play its rightful role in monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u18	I'm just gonna write down who's asking for the floor. As I said earlier in the introduction, Members who raised oral questions will first be given the floor in the context of this exchange of views. That is Mrs Lambrecht and myself. Then, of course, the other Members will have the floor and we will be able to organise a second round. In the first round, I will make a general point of view, which we can go into more detail in the second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u19	Minister, I have heard some positive points. There's a lot of good will. You explicitly say that the audits are an opportunity, and I agree with you. You have also stressed the word food safety on several occasions. You link that directly to perfecting autochecking, but I don't think this is the first option. You then speak of a steering committee. What disappoints me at the moment is that you are translating the 96 recommendations into 10 work axes and referring to a steering committee that is starting to work next week. What is the mandate of that steering group? When will you land? Will you carry out any decision taken there? You say that you will come back to Parliament to link back to committee. Is that to explain an interim decision? Is that going to take a lot of time and have we left for a very long journey? You have given me a starting point, but you did not say anything when those 10 work axes will have been converted into improvements. I insist that I have made a slightly less positive reading of the audit reports, and that is euphemistically expressed. I'll deal with these reports together. There are very clear lines and conclusions that reveal major gaps that threaten our food safety. For me, it is impossible to spread these in the steering committee all together through 10 working axes over time. Certain things must be dealt with immediately if we do not want to face new food crises within a few months. What strikes me in the two audit reports is that there are problems that threaten the basic task of the BFSA, the control of food safety. Then there is a group of pain points that have to do with the gaps in the workforce and the savings on the operating equipment. The service is chronically undermanned and I would have liked to know at what time that can be resolved. Where exactly is the problem? What functions are not filled in? How big is the gap between the minimum number of employees to be able to work properly and the current? There are several places where this also puts a number of priorities at risk. The real basic tasks of the auditors cannot be properly carried out. Certain checks will be carried out earlier in the context of the estimated workload. There is not enough staff and it will therefore be less focused on situations that pose a major risk to food safety. In the same context, I also think it is important what the audits teach us about experiencing the pressure on basic activities due to the increased importance attached to exports within the BFSA. This is also supported by the management itself in the audit report. So some of these points are shared by management. That bothers me even more. A second block of major problems that I believe are really threatening our food safety is all you, Minister, and Mrs Schoubs have said and what the audit says about the formalism of controls, the checklists and their ticking and the imbalance between the number of checks and their depth. This imbalance is evident several times. The management also confirms that the pressure of time experienced means that inspectors do not ask through enough, leaving the quality of the inspection missions inadequate or not strict enough. A third large group of problems or pain points that have a direct impact on the threat to food safety concerns everything related to a lax enforcement policy, insufficient cooperation with the public prosecutors, you have given a number of examples of this and impunity. Non-conformitys are not always subject to penalties. Field inspectors combine a kind of food safety monitoring with an advisory role. They themselves give advice and suggestions for improvement, so that the non-conformitys do not appear in the report or disappear under the mat. Management is also talking about a mix of roles that jeopardises independence. In the same group of problems are also the figures related to administrative fines ranging between 51% and 56%. There is a draft law ready to improve the rate of collection, but its entry into force is only scheduled for 2021. Given what the audits say, I think it is important that this can be done much faster. You yourself pointed out the lack of a cooperation agreement with the judicial system and the lack of clear agreements. This too is clearly part of these problems. What also surprises me in the explanation I have heard, is that as far as the first audit on the organisation of the BFSA is concerned, it is all rather disappointing, that there are a lot of good points and some points of improvement. There you put very pink glasses on and look at that very mildly. Especially in the second report on everything related to control mechanisms, there are very serious concerns that really threaten our food safety. Since these pain points are so serious, I automatically have an implication on the fact that the organizational model of the BFSA should definitely be included in the picture. You say that there will be a number of things going on there, but I think you are too lenient about the organizational model and internal processes of the BFSA itself in your analysis and recommendations, especially in the light of the serious problems mentioned in audit 2. What you mentioned internally is true. Communication and crisis management can be improved. In this respect, you are putting forward a number of proposals, but I think they are rather intentions, because you are moving everything to the steering committee. Internally, there are tensions between management, there is a silo culture and there are problems in communicating with you, which is why I would also like to know what steps you will take, apart from the steering committee. At the moment, unless you can point out in a moment, it seems to me that the fish are drowning and putting everything on the long track. In a first round I want to keep it general. I have said the most important things about this. I have also tabled a few oral questions. In the explanatory memorandum to your policy paper, you announced that you would bring some written answers because of the figures in those answers. If I'm correct, those answers will be delivered to me today. If that is the case, then I do not have to read the text of my oral questions as a monkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u20	Madam President, Minister, Mrs Schoubs, thank you for the presentation. After more than a year, we have been waiting in the press for the first analysis of the audits in recent weeks, but also for the first rebuttals and reactions from both the BFSA and you, Minister. During the audit, the Federal Internal Audit Service received signals on the ground that in some cases the quality of the work of external veterinarians is highly questioned. Based on interviews at different levels in the Federal Food Agency, the Internal Audit Service concludes that "the risk that the external veterinarians would violate the unannounced nature of the inspection missions is estimated to be very real but difficult to prove." This is not the first time that questions or comments have been raised about the functioning and role of external veterinarians who have to carry out checks in slaughterhouses, for example. I've also spoken to some of these vets personally over the past year. It was striking that I heard several times here that it is indeed sometimes very difficult for them to function. I quote one of my sources: "If you always check in the same slaughterhouse, you get a connection with the company, with the people who work there, who lead it. It is not always easy to be as strict every day." Because we are talking about food and food safety, I do not think that compromises can be made or that things can be ignored for the good peace within the company. An inspecting veterinarian in a slaughterhouse is not a district agent, who has to build bridges between residents or residents and policies. The decisive action, guaranteeing the quality and safety of our daily food, requires a straight-line daily policy. There must be no room for compromise here. We already have enough food problems. I therefore strongly urge that this role and the functioning of the external veterinarians in the control system of the Federal Food Agency should be reviewed as a matter of urgency. According to the press, the audits are mildly positive about the federal food agency and it is recognised that the agency is doing what it has to do. The audits do, however, outline the picture of a little dynamic organisation, with a silo culture, which has difficulties with crisis management and which, as we heard in the presentation, places too often the emphasis on the quantity of work, the number of checks, rather than on the quality of work. This must be about quality in the first place. Among other things, the Federal Food Agency should carry out risk-based controls, for example by focusing more on what went wrong in the past when re-checking in a slaughterhouse. The audits show that there is no agreement with the judicial system that regulates this cooperation in case of file transfer, for example, and that there are no agreements with the federal and local police in the case of fraud investigations. According to the inspection service, food safety is not a priority at all in the court and police security plan. This leads to serious delays and poor handling of files. We have seen this in the past. This should partly explain what went wrong in the Veviba fraud case. The audits also confirm that the BFSA is having difficulty communicating, especially in the event of crises, as we have seen. Communication to the public is too limited and too little proactive. The BFSA also has difficulty capturing crisis signals. In the press we heard that the top of the BFSA found the comment about that silo structure wrong. The summit says that there are already adequate decisions and flow structures. Management believes that the controls are already risk-driven and that capturing crisis signals is well done and is not a major problem. There is a big discrepancy between what the audit says and what the top of the BFSA thinks about how it is doing. That is amazing, and that concerns me and others. Minister, I hear your good intentions, as is always the case with you, but in the current political climate I am concerned that we will have a maximum government until May, if things go well, and things will stop here. I want the guarantee that the work will continue in the coming year and that the intention remains to improve what is wrong with the BFSA. I have the following questions. First, we had to hear the first reactions from the BFSA and from you through the press. Would it not have been better and more logical to react first in committee and wait for the discussion here? Secondly, the inspection service is asking questions about the quality of the external veterinarians used for the checks. What conclusions do you draw from this? What will be changed in this respect? Thirdly, the audits outline an image of the BFSA as a little dynamic organisation with a silo culture that has difficulty with crisis management and that works far too much on quantity rather than on quality. What conclusions do you draw from this, Minister? What will you do about it in concrete terms? Fourthly, we are told in the press that the comments on silo structure are unjustified before the summit of the Federal Food Agency. Is it not surprising that the summit reacts well before the audits have been discussed with the Members of Parliament here in committee? Mr Minister, is the reaction of the Federal Food Agency politically covered by you, or has it already reacted on its own? I have one last question. I am very pleased with the news that I hear that a new steering committee will be set up under your leadership. How big is this group? You will inform us that there will be other parties in the group, including Health. However, it is very important that the court, the police and certainly consumer associations, such as Test-Achats, are also represented in the group. Mr Minister, are they also represented on that steering committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u21	Madam Chair, it is my turn to thank Ms. Schoubs for her presentation and Mr. Minister for her intervention. Remember, last year we were several groups calling for an audit of the AFSCA. As a first step, the minister had refused and replied that the AFSCA was already sufficiently audited by Vinçotte, the European Commission, the Court of Auditors and business reviewers. It took the Veviba crisis to get a turnaround. Now, audits are here and we can discuss them. I come to the first element. It is clear, when we read the many recommendations made, that we are in a familiar, better structured and more complete world but so different from what we could read or say to Parliament in previous crises, both in the Fipronil-contaminated egg scandal and in the Veviba case. I will address Mrs Schoubs first. What you are saying, Madam, about the National Investigation Unit, that it is too dependent on external notifications and not effective enough in terms of detection of fraud (cf. On page 31), it is evident that the Veviba scandal was based on a Kosovo complaint and not on the Agency's routine controls. What you say about the lack of revision, supervision, participation in the preparation of the checklist (cf. (page 27) echoes the fipronil scandal and the fact that this prohibited substance was not included in the inspection program. What you say about the difficulty in capturing potential crisis signals (cf. (page 36) echoes the fipronil scandal where it took ministers almost two months to react or the Veviba case where the crisis was triggered eighteen months after the complaint. What you say about the little attention that the Agency gives to its communication, its positioning or its image (cf. (page 39) refers to the questions raised by contrasting Belgium with good communication practices in France and England. The recommendation that food security should once again be part of the National Security Plan (cf. (page 41) echoes the words of the managing director in this Parliament during the Veviba scandal. I could sue. I think these audits provide an excellent basis for improving the work of the AFSCA. From this point of view, the establishment of a steering committee to implement the recommendations is a good thing. It would be useful if the Committee on Health had a regular feedback on the state of implementation, but I have just heard the minister talking about coming back in locks to this Parliament. I would also like to highlight three aspects, Mr.Minister, that I believe are important in these audits. The first element concerns budgetary means. There, we won't agree. There was again yesterday, and you repeated it twice in your speech, on the website of the newspaper Le Soir, an article of 3 December indicating "an additional two million euros for the reforms at the AFSCA". I think this communication is not correct. I'm not going to say she's lying, but she's not responding to realities. Indeed, it is nice to state fake news, but it is still necessary to apply to yourself the realities that one perceives in the documents. The audit, Mr.Minister, which I have visited several times with my excellent collaborator, which I thank again, clearly shows the decrease in the federal staffing of the PSAB. You see on page 12 that staffing for 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 – I'm not going to insult you to repeat the numbers – is down every year. If we had taken 2014 as the base year, we would still be in a bigger decline. These figures are in the report of the audit, Minister! I'm not going to make a number war! The decrease in this budget, the decrease in the number of controls, the decrease in staff – I can also give you the relevant audit pages – and the creation of a backlog in the planned controls seem to me to be linked to these budget cuts. The Audit Service has been quite accommodating since it took as its reference year 2015. Had it taken as its base year 2014, the finding would have been more overwhelming. Indeed, if I take 2014 to 2017, the staff has decreased by 73 full-time equivalents (about 7%), the number of controls has decreased by 14,261 units (about 11%) and the total budget of the AFSCA has decreased by 8,8 million euros (about 5%). The federal allocation was reduced by €21 million (about 20%). Let us be honest to say that it goes back in the 2019 budget, but it still remains 11.5 million euros below its 2014 level. Finally, the auditor shows that the control plan is not being implemented. Out of a total of approximately 215,000 planned control activities, 20,922 (approximately 10%) are more than one year behind schedule (see Table 1). Audit of the meat sector, page 17). According to the auditor, "the elimination of these arrears is unrealistic and requires clear policy choices". Minister, I hope the government will hear this message and give the real means. The Audit Service states that "the recent savings imposed by the current government have a negative impact on financial independence, and more specifically on the achievement of the objectives" (cf. Organizational Audit, page 21). "It is essential to increase the resources allocated to the fight against fraud by increasing the Agency's total funds" (page 32). Mr Minister, the second element that I consider echoes a feeling that exists in public opinion, which is often passed on in committee, of differential treatment according to the importance of the operator. In other words, is AFSCA tough with small producers and flexible with industrialists? This issue of equal treatment, of the discriminatory nature and more fundamentally of the proportionality of the AFSCA inspectors is clearly a thread of the second audit on the meat sector. I shall only take up two significant points. When considering the practice of administrative fines, the audit shows that the amount of the fine is not or is not very limited in proportion to the size of the operator. The fine is both non-dissuasive for large industrialists and disproportionate for small producers (cf. Audit of the meat sector, page 28). I quote my sources because I really want to remain as realistic and as honest intellectually as possible on the basis of the elements that have been given to us. If the frequency of checks is adjusted, the audit shows that the calculation of the risk does not take into account the size of an operator, whereas an incident in a larger operator would have a greater impact on public health than if it occurred in a smaller operator (cf. Audit of the meat sector, page 13). This shows that control practices have not been sufficiently framed to make them proportionate to the size and importance of operators. I do not point out here either because responsibilities are more diffuse, but these facts exist. In addition, processes have not been sufficiently studied to avoid the risk of preferential treatment, differential treatment or even "corruption". I put that term in quotation marks. He's not mine. This is the term used by the Audit Service on page 24 of the meat sector audit. Minister, as far as the practice of field inspections is concerned, the audit shows that there is a tension between two ways of designing the inspection's mission: either from an advisory point of view or from a monitoring and sanction point of view. This divergence of view exists at the micro level between inspectors (page 22) but also at the macro level between different DGs (page 29). This opens up the question of equal treatment between operators. There is also the unexpected nature of the controls. I quote from page 25 on meat control: "Several interviews at central and ULC level (local control units) have shown that the risks of unannounced violations by mission officials are very real." This, in particular, is because they are not paid if they find the operator's door closed. With regard to the rotation of inspectors, "the number of inspectors declared competent is insufficient to ensure a rotation of inspectors sufficient to prevent the risk of corruption" (page 24). This observation had already been made on the occasion of the Veviba scandal, since over almost ten years two thirds of the checks had been carried out by two investigators in particular. Is AFSCA tough with small producers and flexible with large industrialists? The audit does not answer the question. But it shows in any case that the processes have not been sufficiently studied to avoid it. It is not the individual behaviour of the agents that is pointed out, but the lack of implementation. The third element refers to the finding of a lack of supervision of the AFSCA by its appropriate minister. Again, on reading the organizational audit, a floril of statements denounces this lack of control. I'll take four. On page 5, it is said that the roles and responsibilities of the Agency and the Minister are, for the time being, only too little harmonized and determined. On page 16, it is said that the minister, who has direct management competence, is not at present always associated with decisions about events. On page 41, it appears that despite the protocol proposed by the PSAB and the Minister's recent instruction note, participation in the desired management must still take a more appropriate form within the Agency. Page 36 states that the roles and responsibilities of the Associate Administrator, the Minister and the Communications Service in crisis communication are not sufficiently harmonized and defined. The minister wanted to audit the AFSCA, but it was also his office that was under consideration, with a lack of guidance from the Agency through clear directives from the minister. However, the auditor recalls that the AFSCA is a type A parastatal body on which the Minister is expected to exercise direct hierarchical control over management. It has the power, in the absence of any text, and may organise the day-to-day management of the services. The question raised by the Federal Internal Audit Service is therefore of great significance when it asks, on page 21, whether the present form of the parastatal organization type A is still adapted to the current circumstances, given the aspects of the responsibility of the stakeholders, the related information needs and the perception of independence. It is the question of maintaining in its present form the hierarchical relationship between the Minister of Agriculture and the AFSCA that is raised in this audit. I obviously have a reading that is not yours. Again, Minister, this echoes what we said during the fipronil and Veviba crises. We recalled that from the time Laurette Onkelinx was Minister of Health, the firm held a weekly meeting with the FPS DG. The minister, on the contrary, we said, does not speak enough with his administration. Several times, he has announced a communication protocol between his firm and the AFSCA, but has this protocol been put in place? Finally, we requested that the Minister of Agriculture be removed from the AFSCA so as to reaffirm the primacy of the interests of health. I shall end my speech here, Minister, by thanking you and Mrs Schoubs again. I think it is important for the committee to have regular feedback on the state of implementation of the recommendations. I would therefore like to ask three questions to Mrs Schoubs and to the Minister. These are very simple questions that bring very simple answers: Does the PSAB suffer from federal budget cuts? How can this be addressed? Will the control processes be reviewed for greater proportionality between small producers and large industrialists? Can the AFSCA remain a type A parastatal under the direct management of the Minister of Agriculture or should it evolve towards more independence and better consideration of health interests? Mrs Schoubs, Minister, I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u22	Minister, Mrs Schoubs, I would like to thank you both for your very relevant statement. Mrs Schoubs, I would like to stress first of all that I was particularly impressed by the quality of your work. The Minister said that it took a little longer, but that it certainly improved quality. As boss of the BFSA, I would be delighted and pleased with the two reports, because they have a very pragmatic approach, very hands-on. Both reports also underline what is positive. I think that is very important because let's not throw everything in a pile. I also read it as a mostly positive audit. I do believe that many improvements were included in the reports. Point by point, subject by subject can be tackled. Such a thing seems very welcome to any organization. Secondly, Minister, I am also very pleased that you are setting up a steering committee under your leadership. In addition to yourself, the delegate director of the BFSA, the Director-General of DG4 and the FIA will also be on the steering committee. I think that is a very important element. Auditing is a matter, but that audit should not disappear in some drawer afterwards, without any action being taken on it. I don't expect that either from the BFSA. It is certainly important to think politically about how to follow up the audit and how to ensure that all points of improvement are carried out. Mr. Secretary, you listed the 10 points you want to go to work with. That seems to me to be a strong approach. We want to evaluate this in the years to come, together with you. One of my questions was whether you will communicate with Parliament on this matter. You have already announced that you will do so. Parliament can only welcome this transparency. We therefore hope that this can be done smoothly. There are many points of improvement, as I said, but it is also intrinsically acknowledged that the BFSA is performing its mission well. That is an important starting point. The audit of the control processes even indicates that the BFSA sets the bar high for itself. That is good to read and very positive, even if the remark is made that there is a counterproductive side effect, namely that the quantity of activities can threaten their quality. This has already been said by a number of colleagues, but it is an important task to have the same dynamics in terms of quality and to have the courage to set the bar high. I guess that doesn't have to be so hard. If we know where we come from, the results are very encouraging. When our country got the lid on the dioxin crisis a little over twenty years ago, the BFSA was created in response to the many malpractices at the time. It is important to outline that context again. One of the elements I have always stressed in previous crises is that communication in crisis situations is very important. It is a regrettable finding that the BFSA is having difficulty communicating. I assume, Minister, that from the steering committee at the BFSA you will enforce the respect for that holy grail, which is communication in crisis situations. Its importance cannot be underestimated; we also notice this in other areas. Delays, abolished trains and other incidents are one thing, but faulty communication very often causes negative reactions to rail passengers commuting daily by train. In short, communication is essential because it can eliminate ignorance and mistrust. That is therefore an important point of reference. The Federal Internal Audit Service therefore quite rightly notes that there is a discrepancy as to the meaning given by the BFSA, the stakeholders and the public respectively to the word incident. Transparency is an essential issue, where public institutions and services are valued more than ever by the public. Everything is in the open today: no matter what happens, a second later it is on the Internet and often takes massive proportions. That must be properly assessed. If there is a problem, do not let it become a crisis situation due to incorrect communication. Another important focus is communication with the public and stakeholders and communication with the minister. It can indeed be improved, in order to prove the fipronil crisis. The audit also states that it is necessary to clarify the way in which the BFSA organises communication with the minister. I believe that the steering committee plays an essential role in this. I now come to my comments on the veterinarians in charge of a contract, MET, which are engaged by the BFSA for inspection tasks. They are an unmistakable link in the chain to ensure food safety. Our group fully recognises their added value, especially because they are always willing to carry out their tasks in the most flexible way. We therefore regret that the number of Kandiaat BMOs is falling. Consequently, an evaluation of working conditions and conditions may also be desirable. It is also remarkable that the audit mentions concerns about the activities of external veterinarians, as a result of the fact that the risk that external veterinarians would violate the unannounced nature of the inspection missions is estimated to be very real. That can be problematic, also because it's hard to prove. Intrinsically, the use of external veterinarians is not necessarily a bad thing, although on page 25 of the audit, the quality of the work of MET is strongly questioned in a number of cases. Has there been any analysis of the specific cases involved? To what extent do those events affect the proper functioning of MET? Are we talking about a small percentage of MET or are we talking about a large group? The audit recommends that the review procedures for MET be examined as to the extent to which they still meet the objectives. Will you take that recommendation actively, Minister? As far as the dynamics of the BFSA are concerned, the agency was established at the time with the explicit intention to play a leading role in food safety. I think we should definitely keep that ambition, let us be clear about that. It is a pity that there is a lack of dynamism in some areas. According to the audit, the BFSA sets the bar high for itself, but in some cases the quantity is more important than the quality. We therefore agree with the recommendation that the BFSA should monitor more risk-orientedly. In concrete terms, re-checking should focus more on what went wrong with a previous check. Why isn't that happening already? Does this have to do with a lack of flexibility in control procedures? The BFSA is not isolated in the field. Improvement points suggested in the audits are therefore not exclusively intended for the BFSA. Especially in the case of crises and cases of fraud, good cooperation with the judicial police is essential, just look at the fipronil crisis. It must be based on clear agreements so that no one can open their umbrella when it comes to responsibilities. The audit highlights the lack of an agreement with the judicial system governing cooperation in the case of file transfer. Nor are there any agreements with the federal and local police in fraud investigations. Minister, will you sit down at the table with your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, to set up a separate axis specifically for this purpose? Another aspect of the file is the relationship between the BFSA and the FPS Public Health. The audit states on page 4 that, even if there is a cooperation agreement between the BFSA and the FPS Public Health, jurisdictional overlaps must be cleared. That's another element of work. However, the audit raises a number of concerns about the external reference laboratories, which are considered fairly seriously. Important observation regarding external labs is that recognition is unlimited in time. It would be better to reform the system into a periodic re-affirmation of the independence of the external labs. Labs carrying out counter-expertises must also be guaranteed independence from the labs in the first line. I refer to the remark on page 35 of the audit that the risk of a conflict of interest is high, as the labs for counter-expertises should be recognised by the BFSA. My specific question, Minister, is how you can solve this. The organisation audit also examined the various committees of the BFSA. The good news is that the Scientific Committee does not receive any comments and that the comments made by the three other committees only affect the functioning of the BFSA to a limited extent. The Advisory Committee notes that the large number of members makes active advice difficult. Minister, are you considering a reduction in the number of Members or are there other ways of solving this problem? The opposite problem arises in the professional and evaluation committee. There are doubts about independence because there is only one expert. In what way will you overcome that problem? The problem of local control units and their different approaches has just been mentioned. The producers have often complained about this for two reasons. They expect inspections to have a supporting role rather than merely repressive action. I would like to refer to a quote from poultry, the magazine of poultry and rabbit farmers, in response to the consequences of the fipronil crisis. It is a very enlightening piece: "We have never had so many controls on our company, but if they are carried out in a positive way, then they are not experienced as a great burden." Errors found must of course be sanctioned, but the audit report correctly summarises the required attitude of the inspectors in the recommendation on page 22: "Orient the role of inspectors more on the oversight role of the BFSA, with a certain flexibility where possible, but with a strict attitude towards the risks." I can only agree with that. Therefore, I do not agree with you, Mrs Dedry, if you meant that we should, above all, go towards punishment. I think it is very important to show some flexibility. I refer once again to the checks on those points where there could be uncertainty or bad intentions. The second complaint that we often hear from producers is not mentioned in the audits. They claim, in fact, that they sometimes rely on unclear information from the central administration, on the one hand, and the local unit, on the other. Was this criticism not examined or should we also consider the differences between the local units as possible differences between the central government and the local units? I have some very specific comments to make. As regards complaints, page 44 states that there is no central reporting to the ombudsdienst and follow-up of complaints and that the hotline does not provide the staff with a framework and mechanism regarding the accelerated escalation of potential crisis signals. Nor is the Directorate-General for Control directly informed about consumer complaints. Will work be done in the short term on these three recommendations to provide a mechanism to report locally received complaints about the functioning of the BFSA to the ombudsdienst, to create a framework that can capture structured potential crisis signals in the hotline and to include DG Control policy in the reporting flow, so one central point where all complaints come together? As regards staff, it is established that the staff plan for 2018 has not yet been validated by you. Can you tell us what the reason for this is? When will that happen? What conclusions are drawn from this for 2019, which is now getting very close? A common criticism is that of the auto-control system. This criticism comes mainly from people who are distrustful of the principle, while we believe that it is working quite well in practice. There are, of course, some improvements possible. The organisation audit states that the impact of the validated car control systems is best assessed on the content of the checklists and on how they are applied. Checklists should be risk driven and individual findings of audits of car control systems should be integrated into the inspection approach. For example, the inspection may focus more on those requirements in a checklist which present a higher risk to the operator inspected. I think this is very important. Minister, will you implement this measure in order to achieve a better balance between quality and quantity of controls? Finally, another important element, the consequences of the Brexit. The United Kingdom is our fourth most important trading partner, especially for agricultural products. It is therefore of particular importance that we monitor carefully how we can minimise the economic impact of the Brexit. However, this will also have an impact on the BFSA and on its operation. What impact will the Brexit have on the inspection tasks of the BFSA? How will this weigh on staff and budget? I am thinking of separate sanitary protocols, additional inspections and additional checks to be carried out. Minister, it would be interesting, if possible, to add this to your reply. If that is not possible now, I can put a separate question on this. The conclusion is that there is a lot of information in the two audits. There's only one thing waiting for everyone: get to work right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u23	Madam President, as usual, I will try to be relatively brief in my speech. There is, however, one important point that I would like to raise. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Schoubs, and indirectly her colleague, for the reports and explanations she has given. This is obviously a team effort, and we can only welcome it. Minister, as far as you are concerned, you made a commitment to these audits in March. The first thing I would like to point out is that the commitment has been fulfilled, although it can always be said, and I see the President smiling, that it took a little longer than expected. When it is this way, either, we can prove that the work was not done properly and that we slowed it down voluntarily, or, on the contrary - and I believe much more in this second version - we wanted to work in depth and try, through these two audits, to carry out a burden and discharge audit. It is a first in this area and it is extremely important. This is the advantage of an external audit over an internal audit. It is on this point that I would like to thank our two experts for doing this work. In fact, it's not all about saying "everything's okay," "let's keep it that way," or, on the contrary, "nothing's okay; everything has to be changed." In this case, there is a kind of balance in this report which, in the end, highlights a number of elements and even the greatest number of positive elements in relation to operation. This is obviously extremely important because I have heard too many colleagues here focusing on the points of improvement or negative points in these reports. But you have to keep it right. When we were talking about Fake News earlier, I couldn't help smiling. Why? I would like to go back to the Veviba crisis. At that time, I heard some of the opposition's colleagues or political factions not only shoot redballs at the AFSCA but, even worse, completely question the competencies of the system, officers, directors and indirectly discredit the Agency and, of course, the minister. I really want to insist on that. When we talk about fake news, it is every time the desire to pass on information that is not entirely correct but that casts suspicion among the population. What does the population today hold in the Veviba case? The AFSCA did not work properly. That's what people keep. We're not talking about fraud anymore. But they are primarily responsible. The AFSCA has been criminalized and only that remains in the mindsets. The work we have to do now is trying to reverse the balance vis-à-vis the population that has been misinformed. Ultimately, our work as a parliamentarian should not be that one. That's too bad. It should be said that if there have been any malfunctions, we will arrange to detect them, to put in place a system that allows there to be no more malfunctions. Honestly, I think evil is done. We will try to explain by all possible means to the public that the AFSCA has done its job but that two audits have shown that improvements need to be made, his opinion will remain, unfortunately. That's unfortunate. There is a share of the policy's responsibility for misinformation or deliberately truncated information given to the population. I could not fail to refer to it, as I did yesterday in the context of another policy note. This habit of working with false truths is deeply detestable. That being said, I would like to return to the audit as such. The most important thing is that it is said in the slides that the AFSCA is demanding with itself. It means you can be demanding with others, but you have to start with yourself. I do. There is respect for the procedures in place to the letter. Sometimes excessive, but at least there is no possible criticism in this area. Should procedures be changed? That's another question. Minister, you explained the composition of the steering committee, the costs of implementing the recommendations. Two million had been made available to operate the AFSCA. You've reported that they're recurring. You are now adding an additional two million structural funds for the implementation of the recommendations. I am still surprised that none of my colleagues referred to it in the analysis of what we have heard. I think it's important. But it is true that not everyone has spoken yet. You answered my question about the recommendations that will be put in place through the steering committee. As to what measures are in place or planned to improve collaboration with justice, it is known that this is a fundamental link. This link will be effective from the moment there are regular contacts. Minister, I am asking you a subsidiary question. Do you feel that there is a perfect collaboration with justice that allows you to move forward on the basis of your pattern? You are asked here for accounts and you are told that these recommendations need to be put in place. You told us that the steering committee will be set up extremely quickly and will be able to function. However, later on, justice must also do its job. Can you assure us that there is a willingness to work together and that there is no brake on that side? We also discussed improvements. In order to avoid a future Veviba scandal, it is necessary to review this collaboration with the Department of Justice. In this regard, I would like to commend the work that has already been done. We were kind of expecting here to get the results of the reports before we got to work. That is clearly not the case. Mr Minister, you have taken the lead in moving the various issues forward and remedying a number of malfunctions, before you even have the earliest information in the report. This is fundamental and, again, perhaps we forget to remind ourselves of it. Minister, I will conclude my speech with one question. To hear some members of the opposition, those who have already spoken today, this report seems to be anything but positive. I understand that the report will identify all the elements that could lead to discussion or confusion. I note here that there is a willingness to say that this report is not good and that, at the end of the day, we must start all over again. However, the report, even though it called for some improvements, was quite positive. Minister, I have only one question for you. In your opinion, today is it the opposition that is right or are it the people who have come to present the report and who demonstrate that the work has been done correctly so far, even if it needs to be further improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u24	Madam President, Minister, first of all I would like to thank the speaker for the very thorough explanation we have received here and for the very thorough work that has been done. I can agree that this is a very high-quality audit. We supported the request for an audit. We considered it important that a review of the BFSA was carried out in response to both crises. We are pleased that this has been achieved in the short term. Despite the short term, quality work has also been done. I therefore believe that this is a useful tool for the BFSA and for us, to work on it and to learn lessons for the future. This way we can improve the functioning of the BFSA. I also believe that there are many strong points in the audit. It's not just trouble and torment. What the BFSA is doing is not just bad. On the contrary, there are many strengths in the audit. I think it is important to underline this here. We often only talk about crises here. Fortunately, there is also hard work at other times, and this is not always in the press or here in Parliament. However, I believe that this should also be underlined. We are also, of course, also focusing on the bad points that need to be addressed in the future. The audit is a useful tool for this. A lot of questions have been asked. We went over the audit, too. In my speech, I will focus on a number of striking points. We hope that the improvement of these points will be speeded up. One of the first findings is that there is no cooperation agreement between the BFSA on the one hand and the court and the police on the other. We really think this is a pain. Actually, I was a little freaked out that there's still no such thing. Without such an agreement, files can be delayed because, for example, we have to wait for support or the right mandate. This increases the risk to both staff and food safety. This is therefore the first point of concern that we would like to mention. We hope that rapid action will be taken on this matter. Perhaps the Minister has already gone into consultation with the relevant fellow ministers responsible for justice and police. In the meantime, the necessary measures can be taken. Mr. Secretary, have you taken any action? Have agreements been made, pending the establishment of the Steering Committee? Your policy paper says that you want to make food safety a priority in the National Safety Plan. The audit indicates that food safety should be an effective priority in this plan. We can support this position. Have you discussed this matter with your fellow ministers, who are responsible for this plan? Do they subscribe to your intention to include food safety in the National Safety Plan? A second point that I would like to mention, because it was a major gap for me in the first audit, is the absence of a clear definition of a crisis and of a procedure for capturing crisis signals before an incident is considered a crisis. Minister, I have heard from you that you will also take the point to the steering committee or steering committee with a view to doing so. However, it is striking that this is still not there. So I would have liked to know how it actually works. When such an incident occurs, when will a crisis occur? How does the trade-off take place? I want to know how things are going to work now, and also whether things are going to go wrong now, in order to see how we can do things better in the future and where the points for improvement lie. A third point concerns the fact that in the audit it is very clear that the BFSA's national investigation unit is not in a position today to meet the mission and strategy for combating fraud, which is very remarkable. The audit states that this is due to a shortage of staff and operating resources. There is a need to increase the training of employees, but also to invest in modern fraud detection and research techniques. I have a number of questions about that. There is a shortage of human resources and resources. Is there a need for an additional budget for the BFSA or can shifts be made within the existing budget? Where exactly is the shoe pinching? Minister, it has also been mentioned that an additional EUR 20 million would go to the BFSA. Can you clarify that again? Are these additional resources specific to the fight against fraud, or do they still need to be filtered out who gets what? It is very important that there are sufficient staff and resources, but also that there is sufficient training. The fraudsters are usually creative people who are very inventive and often use ingenious ways and methods. I'm sure the inspectors shouldn't be left behind. It is therefore very important that the BFSA is involved and is looking for new techniques to keep the fight against fraud up-to-date and follow up properly. The next item is the division of responsibilities between the Directorate-General for Control and the Directorate-General for Control. The report states that this division of powers should be reviewed. There should be a clearer separation between drawing up and carrying out the inspection programme. I would have liked to know exactly what the distribution of powers is like today. Why is distribution considered problematic? How can we solve the problem in the future? Then I would like to talk about independence. Surely it is crucial that the Food Agency that controls our food safety can work independently. We have already asked questions about this in the past. The independence of the BFSA remains an important element. The audit reveals that there would be a problem of perception regarding the independence of the professional committee and the evaluation committee. A problem with the perception of independence does not yet mean that problems arise with independence itself, which is, of course, good and what we expect. Can you clarify these perceptional problems? How can we strengthen the perception of independence, so that there are no longer any doubts about it? The report also proposes that a mechanism be provided for reporting complaints received locally about the functioning of the BFSA to the ombudswoman and that the full anonymous notification be provided in integrity matters for staff members. I find it a little strange that this is not yet there, as a similar reporting system exists in most organisations and that reports are taken seriously. Since such a reporting system does not yet exist, what is currently happening with anonymous notifications? Are they simply classified, are they not followed at all? I would have liked more information on this and I would like to hear from you how we will deal with it in the future. Finally, I would like to mention a point of communication from the first audit. As a result of the two crises, we have already had a lot of discussions on this issue. Communication is always one of the pain points. In the case of crises, there must always be very clear communication. We must honestly acknowledge that the BFSA is already making a lot of information available today. This information is also well disclosed and can be consulted via the website, for example. However, the perception of communication with consumers and stakeholders is not sufficiently taken into account. Even if there is a crisis, there must always be very clear information and communication. You have already stated that you would submit it to the steering committee so that action can be taken. However, I hope that steps will be taken quickly in this regard. Have you given any guidelines to improve communication? If a crisis were to arise now, I hope that we will not have to identify communication problems for the third time, but that there are already improvements in communication. What steps have already been taken to improve communication and to establish a sound communication plan, focusing on the image and positioning of the agency? I'll come to the second audit. I was surprised to read in the report that the frequency and content of the BFSA's inspection missions to operators, to meat companies, is not or is not yet sufficiently aligned with the previous findings of the non-conformitys. In other words, the risk profile of the operator is not taken into account when determining the number of checks and the checks to be carried out. I think that's really weird. As far as I am concerned, this means that people know what has happened in the past, always start with a clean slate and do not take into account any mistakes or frauds from the past. People just don't take that. That seems very bizarre to me. I assume that there are dossiers, that account is taken of them, that the points of pain are kept, that checks on them are tuned, or that they are just tightened or intensified. I think that is a very important recommendation, and I hope that it will be acted upon quickly. After all, this is certainly a great pain and a great danger. If you can explain more about how you are going to do that, I would be delighted to hear it. The report also recommends increasing the reliability of the results of the auto-audits carried out by the approved external organisations with operators, and increasing the number of unannounced inspection missions aimed at controlling the auto-control system. We can endorse that. Here, too, I would have liked to know how you will do this in concrete terms and when action will be taken. Another important recommendation is the demand to ensure the planned rotation of inspectors and external METs in order to reduce the risks of integrity violations and business blindness. That sounds complicated, but basically it means that the same inspectors do not always go to the same company. There are certain advantages to this. If one has to go to another company all the time, it is very difficult to know how to operate and how to operate. On the other hand, it is very important that there is still a sufficient distance between the controller and the company itself. This is important for the company, but also for the inspectors themselves. In this way, their integrity is not compromised and they do not have to do with the perception that there are too close connections, so they start to overlook things. We must also protect the inspectors. Many people from the inspection and external MET are doing their best very hard and very well. We must be careful not to put this at their disadvantage. There too, therefore, there is no doubt that action must be taken. That rotation has to be there for sure. In the interests of the inspectors and of the quality of the checks, we wish to see rapid action in this regard. The audit report also states that we must work on the proportionate and dissuasive nature of the proposed fines. We can endorse that, too, when the public prosecutor sends a report back to the agency. Can you explain to me what the level of fines is at the moment? How high should the fines eventually become? We are asking about a size of...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We can get input on this abroad. We can also compare the level of fines in other countries. So I also liked to get some more explanation about that. Finally, Minister, my final question concerns the recommendation to make agreements between the BFSA and you on the coordination and communication in the application of the procedures for withdrawing an operator's recognition. Again, it is rather strange that such agreements are still not in place and that an audit should recommend that it would be a good idea to coordinate communication on this issue. I didn't expect that. I thought that tuning would be there by now. In any case, it seems obvious and very important that this recommendation should also be addressed and that this should be done quickly. We're looking forward to it. Minister, you yourself have already announced that you will make the audit work. You have given the ten different axes around which you will work. It was a very good explanation, but it would be useful if we could have a document on the different policy areas you wish to address. We are also pleased that work will be carried out on a steering committee which will meet shortly. What is not clear to me is who will be in the group exactly, what the timing is, what the steering committee will work within and what the recommendations will be. Minister, I am also very pleased that you have indicated that you will return to Parliament regularly and that a report will be produced. That's a very efficient way of working. Nevertheless, I would have liked to know at what time we can expect such a report. Is it in a few months or weeks? It is simply an issue that we can also organise. In the audit there is a lot of substance for asking all kinds of questions. If we know that there will be a first report within a certain number of weeks, we should not ask each week or every 14 days about the state of things. Such a method would not be efficient. Should you be able to give any planning or timing on how you handle the report, that would be very desirable in order to be able to work efficiently. I repeat and conclude by pointing out that what is before us is a very valuable instrument. It is a working document with which we can improve the functioning of the BFSA. I have focused mainly on the negative points, but I would also like to endorse the many strengths in the operation of the BFSA. I'm sure we shouldn't forget them. The most important points are really the elaboration of what is meant by 'crisis' and its very definition. Communication is also a very urgent issue that needs to be improved quickly. In any case, we look forward to the work of the Steering Committee and the report you represent. For us, the transparency offered by the Minister is very commendable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u25	Madam Chair, Minister Schoubs, thank you for the presentation of the audit and for the comments. Dear Madam, I would like to return to you first of all with regard to your interventions and the way in which you have presented things. I am still concerned about your audit and the main conclusions that have been drawn on the subject. I would like to take a closer look at the conclusions you are referring to with regard to these two audits. In particular, I am a little concerned about the terms you use. I would like to take up some of these, which are present in your presentation. You're talking about Control Management and Control Policy. You say that tensions between two directorates must be subordinated to the achievement of the overall objectives of the AFSCA. I can understand that. It's that obviously, everything doesn't bathe in oil. There is either a culture of enterprise, or relations between people who require interventions other than those which would relate to the functioning of the Agency and, it seems to me, to the management of human resources or other lines of action in this direction. The corporate culture also deserves, and perhaps not enough in your analysis, improvements in relationships. You also say: "With a risk-based monitoring program of the guidelines, an extensive technical training offer and an internal and external body of experts for laboratory inspections and analyses, all elements are present so that the AFSCA is able to carry out its mission." My question is: in your opinion, does it do it? You ask the question, I'll send it back to you. What is your assessment as an internal auditor of the federal government? I come back to the conclusions of the organizational audit before referring to other points. You mention elements, but not proposals for solutions or actions to be taken. You could have done it. You could have done that all the more, given that you are going to be on the steering committee, as the minister said earlier in his presentation of this committee. I would have liked to know what proposals a service like yours could possibly make, particularly with regard to the various forms of cooperation in which the AFSCA is engaged. They need to be better defined. Admittedly, this requires further explanation. I would therefore like you to share with me your proposals on the subject, as well as on the basis of your assessment of the functioning of the Agency and the culture of partitioning. Indeed, it must be recognized that speaking of a culture of partitioning is not annoyed. According to the findings of the organizational audit, "the adequacy and definition of accountability roles between the Agency and the Minister must be improved in conjunction with the implementation of processes to meet the Minister's need for information". Dear lady, do you have any practical proposals in this regard? Mr Thiéry, it's not about painting the clouds in pink, the clouds are there. Things go well with the AFSCA, but the audit points to some aspects. I would like to quote a sentence without getting it out of context. It is the audit that says: "The Agency is experiencing difficulties in capturing potential crisis signals in a structured manner." Admit that the use of the term "structured" can be an issue. Minister, you're going to set up a steering committee. As a parliamentarian, I would like to ask myself about a structure such as the Agency where there is a clear concern about the detection of potential crisis signals in a structured way. Dear Madam, you also say that inspectors must be declared competent in a particular area in order to be able to carry out inspections. Can you tell me how you're going to go about declaring them competent? Who should declare them competent? I wish you'd been more prolific on the subject. You also say that "the planning of inspection missions (content and frequency) takes into account the risk profile of operators only in a very limited way". What is the meaning of the terms "very limited"? Isn't that a question? In any case, that is an issue for me when it comes to the management of an Agency such as this one. I do not disagree that some measures are positive. I would like to make this clear, but there are obvious dysfunctions at certain levels. I will come back to some of the terms that you mentioned in the presentation of your audit, ma'am. However, I wanted to emphasize these elements, in your expression and writing about the audit, which do not seem to me anodizing. It seems to me that this audit is more challenging than some of my colleagues have said. With regard to the communication problems between the Minister and the AFSCA, it is sufficient to simply remember that in the problem of fipronil insecticide, between detection by the AFSCA and the time the Minister was notified, seven weeks passed, from June 2, 2017 to July 24, 2017. It's a fact. Everyone knows that. It's written in the texts. It wasn't you, Mr. Ducrame. You're not involved in this reaction. But seven weeks is still a lot! I come to a few evocations that you make in the audit and to the solutions that could be considered. I am being asked about collaboration and cooperation with the judiciary. You repeatedly point to the lack of cooperation agreements between the AFSCA and the judiciary and the police. Food security is not a priority in the judicial security plan. Police services cause delays in files and increase risks. As a reminder, the Veviba case lasted from September 2016 to February 2018. These are months that have passed. This also puts on the table the opportunity to give the status of judicial police officer to certain officers of the AFSCA. This is a proposal that could be made in the context of a reflection on the restructuring of the Agency, for a better functioning of the Agency. With respect to the revision of the AFSCA's staffing, the audit makes it very clear that the recent savings imposed by the government have had a negative impact on the financial independence of the AFSCA, and more specifically on the achievement of its objectives. Minister, you mentioned in your speech the fact that, since you were in charge of this issue, as of July 2017, the amounts have increased slightly. However, the audit, which is favourable to you, since it takes 2015 as the comparison year, shows that the amount of the endowment has actually decreased. Contributions and other income have increased. It's a normal result, but it's a result of other actions. Since 2014-15, the overall amount of staffing allocated to the Agency has decreased, although it has now been increased. Minister, you are telling us that you have recently increased it and that you are going to make it operational in a structural way. I can hear you well, but it must be remembered that we are only beginning to raise the amount allocated, since this has not been the case in the last four years. This is all the more noticeable when we approach the personnel framework. We do not want to separate staff from external missions, but the executive is 93.5 per cent busy, as the audit points out. I'll take note of that. That question would have to be clearly asked if all missions were to be carried out. When presenting your policy note, we were able to mention the increase in the number of members of the small producer unit. Moreover, this lack of resources is felt mainly in the National Investigation Unit, whose audit notes that the ratio of investigators in the fight against fraud relative to the number of investigations remains very low compared to the situation in our Dutch neighbours. Moreover, we have already talked about this at previous committee meetings, as reflected in the parliamentary documents. In short, I would like to see a realignment of funding and personnel. As far as the scope of the audit is concerned, the legal tasks of the AFSCA are concerned. However, I do not find much of what is referred to in Article 4(3) of the Act of 4 February 2000, namely the development and implementation of a policy of prevention, awareness-raising and information in consultation with the Communities and the Regions. That point was not raised. Indeed, in order to return to the small producers' unit, this is dealt with only very laconically in the chapter of the audit devoted to communication. However, there is no description of the mission of support and assistance to the target audience. We barely talk about information. For this reason, I have insisted very much – without being followed – that a parliamentary committee should be set up to accompany this audit, so that Parliament can also direct the work towards issues that were not seriously addressed. I find it a pity that we have not moved forward in this small producer cell. In addition, in the audit, you do not talk about all the legal tasks defined by law. I would also like to raise the issue of the Appeal and Evaluation Board. The report highlights the fact that only one external member is provided for in the composition and functioning of the appeal board – that is, the body to which operators can appeal against a final closure decision – and the assessment board – the body to which operators can oppose a final closure decision. The other members are independent of the file in question but not independent of the Agency. You'll admit it's special. In addition, the list from which the independent expert is selected is limited. It's a little anachronistic. "We're going to stay between us": it's a bit of an Agency endogamy character. It is a difficulty to question the procedures. This, in fact, led to audits, as we experienced two food crises (fipronil and Veviba) in three years and we realize that there are problems in this direction. I would have liked to have both of you agree on the issue of the independence of appeal bodies. I am getting to the processes and audit of the latter. This is not the first time that I have asked you - and I will come back to this point for as long as necessary - about the effectiveness and relevance of the self-control system as it is being implemented. The audit is one thing, but remember that there is still a report from the Court of Auditors in March 2017. The report also identified some weaknesses. This report is a year and a half ago. These weaknesses were quickly mentioned. I wonder about the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. In its report, the Court of Auditors stated the following: "Because of the parameters adopted by the AFSCA to programme inspections under the theme "self-control system", many operators have escaped this control. The AFSCA did not control this risk by means of mechanisms to ensure that all operators were subject to at least one verification of the "self-checking system" theme for a specified period of time." The Court of Auditors added that "AFSCA does not systematically apply all the criteria laid down by the European Union for determining the inspection frequencies of operators. Former inspection results and sanctions are not taken into account in all sectors of activity in assessing the operator's risk and in determining the frequency of inspection accordingly." Therefore, even if, following the friponil crisis, the AFSCA, in a note to the Minister, returned to this report, it pointed out, inter alia, that the Court had focused too much on the system of self-control. What do we finally see? That this system is ineffective in cases of fraud. It is clear, therefore, that there is a concern in this area. Minister, we asked you about this at the time. If you reread your answer, you will find that you have stated that if fipronil had been detected, it was thanks to this system. But obviously, seven weeks have passed between the observation, the information and the reaction. There were other problems. Today, the audit also points out several elements: "It seems, in general, that the AFSCA inspectors rely too much on a pre-established procedure, whereas they should focus more on the risks relative to the available inspection capacity. The calculation of the risk profile does not take into account the size of an operator, whereas it can be assumed that an incident in a larger operator will have a greater impact on the whole food chain and public health than for a smaller actor." This is what I have been pointing out since the beginning in relation to proportionality in the context of the AFSCA controls. I'll give you an example, minister, that you don't like. We want to control a grandmother who makes homemade soup on a voluntary basis, as if she were an important economic actor to benefit from licensed sanitary facilities. That is why, personally, we want so much to see the small producers' unit have the development it deserves. It is not just a matter of making a deal, but of changing the paradigm by putting on the one hand the actors who need to be accompanied more, even if the accompaniment is not free of surveillance and, on the other, those who can very well get away with it on their own but who need to be monitored more effectively. It is the whole question of the equal treatment of operators that arises. The inspector's role in carrying out inspection missions should be further aligned. Is there not a concern in directing the role of inspectors towards the supervisory role, applying some flexibility where this can be done, while remaining severe in the face of risks? In essence, the problem is that many inspectors who are normally there to monitor combine this task with an advisory role. As a result, this does not really guarantee equal treatment because, in similar situations, some operators will be punished, referred, and others will be advised. There is therefore a risk of double standards. That's why I always plead for a real accompaniment and advisory unit, separate from the inspection. The audit states that in terms of risk of corruption - these are the terms of the audit - or simply blindness due to a certain routine, a rotation of inspectors within a local control unit is planned. However, this rotation is not guaranteed. This is indeed a problem. We also asked this question in committee on 12 March, Minister. There are also returns from the field. Branding is one thing. Returns also concern what is said when there are controls. The independent monitoring mission is called into question. You say that the concern is that there is a sharp decrease in the number of candidates for these missions. As a result, we'd tend to drive someone who doesn't necessarily do, and I don't generalize, a good job. Mr Diricks himself raised this issue in committee. You're talking about him, too. He pointed out the means of the AFSCA. I would like to touch on my last point before my conclusions. Minister, I want you to specify one element. The average amount of administrative fines that AFSCA can impose is EUR 620. The audit found that the variation in the amount of the fine according to the size and earnings of the operator is very limited. If you allow me the expression, the scale of possible sanctions is narrow. Is that really consistent? Is it not necessary to introduce greater proportionality? This joins the observation that it is "too hard with the little ones, not enough with the big ones". That question should be raised. I would add the question of the rate of collection of fines. Since there is a fine, in my previous intervention we have discussed proportionality. But I would have liked you to give me the exact rate of collection of fines paid by the Agency. If you do not have one today, I accept a written answer. Minister, for the first time in the fipronil case, we asked for an independent audit with parliamentary scrutiny. The Veviba dossier has also been included in our committee. We asked the same thing again. There has been no parliamentary scrutiny, but you come here and I appreciate it. If this audit exists, it does not mean that everything is going wrong with AFSCA. I'm saying it clearly. This does not mean that the organization is not doing its job properly. This starts from the observation that things are to be improved and that every institution must evolve over time, as well as the practices of trade, agriculture, producers, both small and large. Minister, you yourself started your intervention, when we had already asked for the audits, speaking of opportunity. That is also what I think. Having said that, the questions I am asking you serve to move the debate forward constructively. Significant progress still needs to be made, as many issues remain unresolved. Minister, there are still things to be improved. You must also direct the AFSCA towards a "client" vision. I am referring in particular to the accompanying and advisory unit and the small producers' unit. The AFSCA paradigm needs to be reassessed. It's a chance. It must be adapted to the control of operators of a certain size, whereas it will be oriented towards a profession of advice relating to two aspects already present in our cities. These are first of all short circuits, with which collaboration and partnership work must be undertaken. Then I think of the multitude of local producers who accompany them. Food security is essential. The economic development of this sector is at our doorstep, but is already well present through short circuits, local producers, food belt, shared vegetable garden, etc. I invite you to undertake this work in terms of advice and assistance to ensure food security for all. There is a need to differentiate between the attention paid to small and large producers. Clearly, food risk is more prevalent among the latter. That, Minister, is my findings and the answers that I expect to be given to new options. We will, of course, be following the steering committee carefully through questions and interventions. I hope you will take these remarks into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u26	Madam President, the Ecolo-Groen Group is very pleased that these audits are coming before Parliament. I would also like to thank Mrs Schoubs for her presentation. We do not question the content of the audits and do not shout at the wolf. We want to do our work as parliamentarians within the framework. From the moment a problem arises, a procedure is put in place to try to resolve it. That's what we're doing. I therefore do not see very well where the problem described earlier is located. We'll talk about it again. The audit made it possible to bring out many interesting things, although sometimes there is a need to dig a little more. It is on the basis of this very useful document that I will base my speech. As far as budget matters are concerned, Minister, you say you have allocated an additional two million for controls and two million in March. Will they be added to the staffing of the CFSA for 2019? Concerning the €7 million recorded under the heading "Personnel of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, could you explain how this heading appears from 2016? Could you elaborate further on the heading "Others"? It increases significantly. It would be useful to see what's in it. On the organizational chart, the audits repeatedly pointed out that the staff plan was not completed. This applies to both local inspection services and veterinarians on mission. Monitoring services are chronically understaffed and certain tasks cannot be carried out in depth or within a reasonable time. The estimated workload sometimes takes precedence over the estimated food security risks, when certain risks are given priority. What do you intend to do to solve this problem? Are there commitments? Another aspect relating to staff: the report points out a risk of demotivation, lack of creativity and even burn out. On what basis is the performance of inspections assessed? We have the impression that it is based on rigid tables and indicators, without giving much room to the inspectors' intuition and without asking ourselves the question of the consequences in terms of food security. Do inspectors have the opportunity to do their job properly, without being under constant pressure to make figures? I am concerned about the accompaniment of small producers. This aspect is not discussed in the audit. It's crucial, though. In the "Combating fraud" section, you say that "AFSCA must develop its mission of dialogue and support for operators". Much of the AFSCA's work is invested in the export section. What is the current weight of these two positions within the AFSCA? With regard to self-monitoring, the Court of Auditors' analysis had already revealed in 2017 that the programming system adopted by the AFSCA involved the risk that operators, whose self-monitoring system had never been verified, would escape inspections on this subject for a long period of time. The Court of Auditors had noted that of these, 86% had not had their self-control system validated. This problem is particularly important in the distribution and processing sector, where the number of validated self-control systems is limited. We lost two years, during which there were two crises. What do you intend to do to prevent a third without the recommendations of the 2017 report being put in place? The Appeals and Evaluation Commission shall be composed of a single external expert whose independence is called into question. The audit states that this situation only has a limited impact on the achievement of the objectives. It seems to us that, for short circuits, it is particularly important that the possibility of appeal be truly independent. Since these producers have more limited means than those of the industrialists, it is all the more important that the possibility of appeal is very real. Regarding the involvement of stakeholders in the conduct of the audit, it is mentioned that the Belgian Fields Association and the Belgian Meat Federation were consulted. We deplore the fact that small producers and artisans who believe they are subject to disproportionate controls by the AFSCA are not represented among these stakeholders. We hope you will catch up with the work of the steering committee. Could you clarify the mission of this future committee? Regarding the Advisory Committee, the audit said that it should be strengthened with representatives of the agriculture and agri-food sector, health professionals, consumer rights advocates and social actors. Its internal functioning needs to be improved to ensure the objectivity of the opinion. With regard to the autonomy of DG decisions, it seems to us essential that DGs work together. The silo policies denounced in the audit are really problematic and there is probably a lot of human resources management work to be put in place beyond the reform, in order to allow people to work together in the inter-personal sphere, which is an important aspect. As far as disproportionate sanctions are concerned, which has also been mentioned, it does seem to me important that sanctions be proportionate to the size and risks of exploitation. This is not the case today, so it is really important that justice be put in place. When we discussed, in relation to your general policy note, the possibility of creating a system that is more suitable for small producers, you told me that a two-speed system was not going to be set up. In fact, this two-speed system is in place today. I think it is really important that this is part of the reflection in the subsequent reform of the AFSCA. To conclude this first intervention, I heard Mr. Thiéry say that the procedures were being followed and that the AFSCA was being attacked, even though it had nothing to do with it. For me, compliance with procedures is good, but I don't think it's the most important thing. Procedures need to be tailored to the issues and, obviously, the AFSCA is no longer fully responsive to the current food system. This current system is undergoing an extremely strong transition, on the one hand, in the way in which one produces (with the development of short circuits and small productions), on the other hand, with a very strong demand and demand on the part of consumers in terms of the quality and proximity of products. What challenges does the AFSCA have to respond to today? Some agree that the presence of fraudsters is not his fault, but work must be done to develop a system that eliminates the possibility of fraud. A resilient, trust-based system is needed, which will be achieved by supporting short circuits and small producers. It is clearly from agro-industry that large-scale fraud has been observed in recent years, and that is why we need to put things in place. In conclusion, I would like to have your political vision of the reform that will take place. What are you going to do with the steering committee? You also mentioned in the press the establishment of a permanent crisis management unit. What will be the mission of this cell and what will be the cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u27	Madam President, I do not want to disrespect the minister, but I have to leave you at 2 p.m. to go to the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u28	Madam President, like a number of other Members, I have to leave this sitting for about 15 minutes to go to another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u29	I understand that some Members have to leave this sitting at 2 p.m. and 2.15 p.m. That means, Minister, that you have 15 minutes to answer a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u30	Madam President, I would like to thank all parliamentarians. Beyond a few critical elements – and that is quite normal – I see that everyone appreciates the audits I have requested. They must be seized by the AFSCA as an opportunity to function better. Beyond the more political elements, sometimes politicians, I still see nuance. I would like to thank Mr Senesael for saying that the steering committee was a good idea to implement the measures. This is how audits are done: a steering committee is set up and the Council of Ministers gives the committee a mandate to implement the measures. The mandate is therefore extremely clear. The CBSA, DG 4, the AIF, as well as actors who could be involved on the basis of the recommendations mentioned, could join me. Thank you to Mr. de Lamotte and others for their nuance, thank you to Mr. Thiéry for saying what he said. When audits tell us that the Agency has organized its operations to carry out the missions and achieve the objectives imposed by law, it means that we meet the objectives imposed by law on food safety. Sometimes there is a great margin of interpretation in politics, but this is fundamental! This means that the AFSCA does the job! We can point out things to do according to the lines of weaknesses identified but from the moment when two audits tell us that the Agency is organizing its operations so as to carry out the tasks and achieve the objectives imposed by the law, I cannot accept to see the chairman of the Health Committee tweeting, with a beautiful visual: "Voedselveiligheid nog steds bedreigd" – "Food security still and always threatened". It's fun to scare people, when you're told that the AFSCA is doing the job? Do you have fun? Do you think you will make more voices by frightening people by going against what has been the balance of nuances in this audit? No! You, what you think as a representative of the Ecolo-Green Party, is that the more people will be afraid about food security the more benefit it will be for you in the next elections. A bit like some people sow fear on other themes. I believe that, as committee chair, one may need to have – I allow myself to judge – behaviour, when dealing with this kind of subject, a little different from the one that one will choose in terms of the path of expression when one is a mere parliamentarian in the room. That said, a few details on the budget. Yes, it is true that I have increased the staffing. I shall keep the table at the disposal of Parliament. I would like to draw attention to the fact that when considering the AFSCA budget, the interdepartmental provision should not be included. What's it for? It is used to finance certain unforeseen expenses. What are they at the AFSCA level? For example, when trials have been going on for 15 years, at some point, if there is a conviction, you have to pay. The interdepartmental provision is used, in a neutral manner with respect to the AFCSA budget, to cover this type of expenditure. We need to know what we're talking about! The interdepartmental provision should not be included in the PSAB budget in relation to expenses that are unforeseen. Looking at the ACFA budget in the table that I have at your disposal, we see that since 2017 it has been increasing and staffing has also been increasing since the same time. That is the reality in numbers as it is. I can hear you whispering, but these are the official figures. A budget is a budget: there are no different ways to read it. These are the realities. The documents come directly from the AFSCA and are validated by the budget at home. We don't handle numbers. This is what an interdepartmental provision is for. Of course, it is not included in the budget in relation to these unforeseen expenses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u31	Minister, the interdepartmental provision is not included in the staffing, in the budget before us. Everyone agrees. We all have the same picture. It is in the budget, in total revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u32	That's the point. It should not be included in revenue. This is obvious in terms of budgetary reading. We don't fit it into the recipes. Forgive me, but that's how it is. I'll keep the chart at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u33	You're mixing endowment and revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u34	These are expenses that are not programmed, which are related to costs such as those I have just expressed in relation to certain expenses that are often related to a conviction. It's very common. It's not in the core budget. This is something we come to add to cover a number of unforeseen expenses. Initially, it is not in the budget estimates or in the AFSCA budget. We don't have to gather everything together, as some people do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u35	Minister, I would like to understand. You say that the interdepartmental provision is outside of that. On page 12 of the audit report, the interdepartmental provision between 2015 and 2017 increases by €2.958 million and €7.3 million. The recipe is therefore even more catastrophic than what is mentioned here. Either there is a problem of table transcription, or you have to tell us something because the interdepartmental provision increases and therefore the revenues increase more than they do between 2015 and 2017 if we include this provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u36	I repeat that the integration of the interdepartmental provision in the table is not right. You're going to say it doesn't increase. I want to be very specific about that. The AFSCA budget has increased since 2017 by almost 10 million euros. I'll give you the chart. As I have little time to answer, I am not going to sit on the board.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u37	Minister, I have time. Between 2015 and 2017, you have to reduce the amount of revenue (171 million) by $2,958 million. On the other hand (176 million) of 7.3 million. I can only note that there is a decrease. Or you have to re-explain mathematics! You can answer me in writing if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u38	I'll just give you the picture. That's all. It is clear, it is precise, it makes the distinction. It is a mistake to have included the interdepartmental provision in the table. The allocation is increasing and the budget is increasing from 2017. That's the reality. I want to convince you, if you want your speech on the AFSCA budget to be in line with the realities of the budget, to seize these documents rather than make additions that do not need to be in such a budget. Otherwise, I too will talk about fake news every time a parliamentarian adds up figures that are not right. I'll say, "Untel spreads fake news." Enough, please, of imprecision and lack of rigour in budgetary matters related to the AFSCA! That's all I have to say, and I said it, Madam President. I am keeping the table at the disposal of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u39	I guess the paintings are the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u40	Minister, your table will then be copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u41	I want to go back to something else. A lot of questions have been asked on the subject. It's not in the audits, but you're right. For me, this is a problem. From the time 93% of the staff cadre is not used, it is neither the federal staffing nor the budget allocated to the PSAB that is problematic. It is, of course, recruitment policy and internal mobility that are at issue. I want to make it a point of debate at the steering committee level. It's easy to say that "AFSCA doesn't know how to do the job," "it's your fault, minister." No! At the steering committee level, we need to focus on recruitment policy and internal mobility. I know that sometimes these are hard-to-find profiles, but hiring some officials takes too long. For example, when I allocated the EUR 2 million, including EUR 700,000 to hire new inspectors at UNE level, although it was in March, it was only in January-February that the three inspectors' reinforcements would be real at UNE level. So yes, there is a problem in the recruitment policy. We need to assess the work of the AFSCA on the basis of what we are entitled to expect, i.e. a more than 93% completed framework. We're going to do this job. A number of parliamentarians asked me what were the priorities in terms of staff. I have just mentioned one: improving recruitment policy. It is clear that, compared to the additional EUR 2 million I am allocating for the implementation of the audit measures, amounts will have to be spent on a policy to commit more to UNE. This will be discussed at the steering committee level, based on reporting to the government. This is one of the priorities in terms of staff. I want to do it. I want to continue working with the (mission) HOMs. Simply, as the audit indicates, I believe that collaboration with HOMs needs to be structured differently and, in many cases, to be more reliable. In response to Ms Dierick, an additional two million were allocated to control policies in March. This amount is recurrent and will fund engagement policies within the UNE. In 2019, another two million – also recurring – will be added for the implementation of the measures. This means that we are going to invest in improving the human resources of the AFSCA. A few questions were asked about external services. It is true that the audit makes remarks about the means that are allocated to missions other than oversight. For me, the foreign service must naturally continue its work. However, I would like to point out that these are 20 full-time equivalents out of just over 1,100 agents. This is therefore not the most important issue in terms of personnel. Mrs Dedry and Mrs Lambrecht, Mr de Lamotte and others asked me about the recovery. In my opinion, we can progress very quickly. I do not think, Mr de Lamotte, that we should go as far as granting the status of judicial police officer to UNE officials. However, it is possible to give them the possibility of covering the fines. Similarly, I believe that we will be able to work quickly on the question of their proportionality. Moreover, I agree with what some members of the opposition have said: it is a question of developing more proportionality in terms of the punishment of fraudsters. I agree on the need to work quickly in this area in view of the lack of equity that small producers may suffer. Mrs Lambrecht, I would like to bring you back to reality. You're accusing me of communicating. When a Council of Ministers makes decisions, it communicates. On Friday, after the Council of Ministers, a press conference is held. Would you like us to keep everything for Parliament? It is normal for the Council of Ministers to communicate its decisions, Madam! A little realism! Should the minister have kept quiet about the decision of the Council of Ministers until he could have spoken to you first? I would like you to be parliamentary and important, but it is still normal for the Council of Ministers to communicate in this way after its decisions. What you hear is sometimes crazy. This will also be a response to a number of things that you have identified as the silo crop problem that you have raised. There are others, but you have placed particular emphasis on that and you are right. As I said, I am very concerned about this. On the basis of a number of possible initiatives that are present in the audits and on which I am not going to come back, we will have to respond to the need for collaboration, communication and fluidity of information in order to overcome the tensions that have been identified by the auditors. It's a special point of attention. Another point of attention to which I really want us to be able to bring a number of results, and that is part of the same whole for me, is the development of participatory culture. I agree with what has been said by Ecolo in this context. I believe that we must be able to evolve in a working environment that is also fulfilling. Beyond the issue of effectiveness, of course, it is also a matter of ensuring that staff participation and comments can find their place in the overall dynamics of the AFSCA. Of course, crisis management will be a priority. Yes, there are problems with the definition of the crisis and the incident. Other equally important questions also arise on the detection of crisis signals. The audit reports to them in particular. It will be up to the steering committee to discuss it, but I think that we will have to move towards a permanent crisis centre that would probably be more effective in terms of detection of information. Mrs Dierick is no longer present, but I am arriving at the PNS. That is indeed very important. This was noted by the auditors. I will have to repeat what I said earlier about the relationship with justice, which I would like to apologize for. We know it's a big problem, at the source of the Veviba case. I repeat that I contacted the Minister of Justice at the end of the first semester. In early summer, I met with the AFSCA and the College of Attorneys General. The discussion continues and I hope that it will close quickly. I have been told by the Attorney-General that I wish to reach a conclusion as soon as possible. They want to agree on a circular defining more precisely the scope of action of the AFSCA when there is a judicial investigation and also to determine more precisely the collaboration of the AFSCA with the justice system. So I did not wait for the audits on this point to move forward. Another point is highlighted. You said we had two serious crises in three years. What you're saying is not correct, Mr. de Lamotte. It's in eight months. The fipronil crisis and the Veviba crisis occurred over an eight-month period. Over the past eight months, I have come to the conclusion that audits should be put in place. Indeed, I had acquired the conviction that it had become necessary. I would nevertheless like to break my legs or heads to a lame duck, to the one who repeats that the audits should have been requested after the fipronil crisis, referring to a report by the European Commission which highlights how well the fipronil crisis has been managed by the AFSCA and the Belgian authorities. I invite you to document yourself on this matter or, if you prefer, I will provide you with this report. That does not take away, Mr de Lamotte, your comment on the question of communication. I am very pleased to see the auditors highlight the need for the AFSCA to associate, communicate and inform more fully the political power. I think this will also be one of the priorities to be met within the steering committee. Mrs Lijnen, we have also talked about the issue of communication. Indeed, the audit indicates, and I also believe, that there will be work to be done in terms of communication both on its strategy and on its evaluation or the programming of communication elements. There's a lot of work to do. Although the audits also report, progress has been made in this regard. I wouldn't deny it. There may still be one element, in the context of communication and crisis management, which is concurrent and for which a number of complementary elements are still to be produced. Mr de Lamotte, with regard to your question about the declaration of competence, this is linked to ISO 17020. A declaration of competence is provided for in this programme. You can't, even if you're an AFSCA inspector or controller, be a specialist in everything! As part of this ISO 17020 quality programme, a number of phases are planned, starting with schooling, accompanying, evaluation and monitoring, so that a controller can be identified as competent in a particular sector such as, for example, the meat sector. The declaration of competence is therefore linked to this. Mrs Dierick, indeed, let's say so! AFSCA's collaboration with customs, police, the Medicine Agency and justice is a reality. What we need, and the audits stress, is to further formalize the relationship, role and freedom of everyone in the context of the work to be produced together. Although the role of the AFSCA is central and fundamental to food security, it should be borne in mind that other actors have a fairly broad role to play in food security. A few useful comments echo the findings of the audits of the evaluation committee, the appeal board. We must ensure that there is more balance at the appeal board level. I have been thinking about it since I took office as Minister of Agriculture. We must - and I hope the follow-up committee will be of the same opinion - make more use of external experts who can have a more independent view in this appeal board. You saw in the audits the importance of independence, namely, integrity, conflict of interest, declaration of independence, perception of independence in the head of various committees and commissions. A project related to the question of independence will naturally have to be carried out within the framework of the steering committee. Another element was noted by many members and Mr. de Lamotte in particular. This is self-control, which represents an added value in our system. That is probably why today the European Commission itself wants to draw on our system of self-control so that it can be developed in other countries. However, it cannot be improved. The audits mention the evaluation of self-control, and I can only subscribe to it. This will need to be done with self-checking certifying bodies, which are not systematically required to notify all of their findings. They shall notify only information which poses a danger to food safety and the consumer and not more minor issues. The other element that will have to be worked on concerns the obligations in terms of control; at Belgian level, they are clear: notification must be communicated automatically. If the operator organises the tests at the level of self-control using a French or German laboratory, he will not be required to notify AFSCA, which is a problem. Here are some elements on self-control, crisis management. I think we went around. I can hear what you're saying about the escort cell. I'm always so happy to hear the opposition, that it's Ecolo, cdH, others... say all the good they think about these small producer support cells set up by this government. Every time, it's a great pleasure to get along with you at this level. Indeed, this government has done well to put this'small producers' unit in place. This is obviously an added value for small producers. I am therefore pleased that you are accompanying us with regard to this achievement. Mr de Lamotte, I can hear your proposal to create a larger accompaniment cell next to the control. I am prepared to reflect on this proposal, but I am not saying that we will take this path. Perhaps this is a critical element that I can also have in relation to audits. I think I can also question one point, namely what the audits are about in terms of advice. I believe that we need to focus on monitoring missions. In a number of cases, I do not think it is incompatible for a controller who, for example, drafts a favourable report with conditions to give some advice to the operator. That's how it happens in the field. This also allows AFSCA controllers not to remain riveted to the operator as strict sanctioners. I can tell you that I've met a lot of them. They told me that they were obliged to submit a favourable report, but with conditions to be met by the producer. My question remains about this. I'll admit I haven't decided yet. What the audits submit to us in this area gives reason for reflection and obviously can only be positive. Few of you have identified a central aspect in these audits, as it is an essential part of improving our relationship with AFSCA. From my point of view, this is a huge surplus-value. The audits propose a dynamic approach to controls and checklists, based on a risk analysis that provides a better shared operator profile, so that it can serve as a basis for monitoring. In this way, controllers will be able to work more on higher-risk telescopes. This will save them time and increase their efficiency. This must become one of the priorities of the steering committee. I had replied to Mrs Lijnen about Brexit. As soon as it has been ratified, this will require stronger control of certain goods. According to the information available to me, contacts have been established with the European Commission to see how it can help countries that are particularly affected by Brexit. This applies to the AFSCA, which will carry out the necessary additional checks. I think there were also other questions from Ms Lijnen about the relationship between the National Investigation Unit (UNE) and the local control units (ULC). It is also a matter of increasing fluidity and exchange of information. This point is taken up by the audits in the framework of the organisation of the AFSCA. Finally, I will reply to Mrs Lambrecht, who asked me about the statements made by the AFSCA. I can tell you, and I've had the contacts in this direction, that it was not easy for AFSCA staff representatives to submit to the audit. In fact, being audited is never very pleasant. However, I have understood, also in view of the willingness of these audits, that the AFSCA is now involved and seizes these audits as a real opportunity. Mrs Lambrecht, you will not have a negative reaction from AFSCA to these audits. There is a will at the AFSCA level. It is important to know that the AFSCA is never more criticized than it is at the national level. We have received from European countries and major world powers who ask to be able to collaborate with AFSCA in order to benefit from its expertise. What I do is not cinema. We really have one of the best European agencies, and I don't hear people say that very often, when it is a reality. When we receive ambassadors from the world's largest powers who tell us that we want to draw inspiration in their country from our traceability or health system, or when European countries ask to draw inspiration from the way we have operated egg monitoring in Belgium, it is clear that we have an excellent agency. I think that at the AFSCA level, we have gone to do even better and to further raise the level of our food security. Therefore, you will not have any tension with the essential achievements proposed by the audits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u42	I'm gonna check who else wants to speak in the second round. I will take note of Mr de Lamotte. I would also like to speak myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u43	Minister, we will meet once the steering committee is in place. I imagine there will be a follow-up, otherwise we will question you about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u44	I want to be clear on this, we have scheduled a quarterly reporting at the level of the Council of Ministers and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u45	Thanks for the schedule, but if there are any emergencies, we'll come back to you. You promised us two budget tables. Can they be forwarded to the secretariat of the commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u46	Minister, I would like to ask a few more questions and add some elements. You already answered some of the questions I wanted to ask. You also said that the progress of the work could be explained by the quarter. Together with your cabinet, we will try to include this in our agenda and that will be scheduled at least once before 1 May 2019. You also mentioned the reporting of foreign labs. Of course, not everything has to be taken care of by the steering committee; you can enter a number of things yourself immediately. For example, this seems to me to be a measure which can be implemented quickly and which can be taken immediately by major steps. You don't need the steering committee for that right away. A number of members asked for the correct composition of the steering committee and the working calendar. I ask not so much how often one will meet but what will be dealt with first. Just now, you yourself identified a number of priorities. May I conclude that these are the first elements that you will deal with with with the Steering Committee, such as the staff framework, recruitment policy, crisis management? Or does the steering committee have another work calendar? I have another question I didn't ask you earlier. On page 21 there is an important recommendation on the declarations of independence of employees and third parties, with a recommendation to make that reaction. That seems to me to be a very interesting recommendation. Do you share this recommendation or not? Mr Minister, you kindly gave me a sneak about my role as chairman in this committee. You know that I have been very involved in food safety and the fipronil crisis. During these discussions, I was elsewhere and therefore not in this chair. The BFSA is very close to my heart and you know that. Even then, I said that, in the period of Magda Aelvoet, under a green minister, we were at the cradle of the BFSA. So don't call it an intention to be absolutely subjective and not neutral, but a great commitment on my part and a drive to defend this issue and food safety. I certainly do not do this with electoral intentions or to scare citizens. I repeat my reasoning. In particular, I noticed that the management of the BFSA has the same opinion on a number of very important issues concerning the pressure at work which prevents the basic activities from being carried out, with the lack of rigorous control, with impunity, with the role of MET, etc. It is precisely the pain points that the management of the BFSA itself raises. This has reinforced my concern about the risk of compromising food safety. That was my only message. There are no Vice-Presidents present. In future, I would be more than happy to take a seat elsewhere and bring a Vice-President to the front of the House, as is the case with the examination of legislative proposals. However, I believe that the members of this committee can confirm that I am always trying to do my job very objectively. If, in your view, Minister, I have fallen out of my role, it is because of my great commitment to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u47	I asked Mrs Schoubs some questions about certain observations or proposals and I expected her to answer me as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u48	There were some specific questions. One was about the separation between control and control policy at the BFSA. You wanted to know what that distribution looks like today. During the audit, we found that a number of tasks, such as the drawing up of checklists on the method of checks, are carried out by the Directorate-General for Control, which is actually responsible for the proper implementation of the checks. Although the KB may not be entirely clear about this, we believe that there should be a separation between the performer and the architect of the checks. During the interviews we feel tensions in the organisation about this point and about adjustments to the controls. One of our recommendations is therefore to re-evaluate the role and responsibilities of both managements, to clearly determine who should do what in the future as regards the implementation and definition of controls. Another aspect concerns the capture of the crisis signals. A certain structure must be set up immediately when signals come in to deal with them. After all, they should not be published in the newspapers before communication from the BFSA in a good way. In 2018, there are many possibilities for data analysis and a lot of data are available on everything related to food safety. They are not all used, for example, for MET, the labs and the OCIs. We therefore believe that there is still potential in this area to respond proactively to the signals. With the indications that come out of those dates, we can achieve better crisis management. In other words, we would rather not need crisis management, because the aim is to avoid the crises. A timely detection of any signals can avoid crises. There was also a question about anonymous reports. Today, notifications can be made through a trusted person or through the Federal Ombudsman, but they are not anonymous. So someone who really wants to report something anonymous can't do that today. For example, the Federal Ombudsman must always be made known as a reporter. That can be prevented. One can provide an arrangement to report anonymously. The Federal Internal Audit Service will also develop a scheme so that cases such as integrity breach or fraud can be reported completely anonymously. We hope that one way or another we can solve the problem. There was then another question about the risk profile of the different operators. Today, the BFSA takes into account the minutes of the previous two years, with inspection results, and the fact that the operator has an autocontrol system. Here too, we can go further, by making a kind of health card of each operator, doing much more targeted and modular inspections and by making checklists that are really adapted to the operator's problems. This can then be based on data from labs, OCIs and other sources. I think that's how I answered most of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u49	Minister, thank you for the answers you have provided. I am once again surprised by the climate in this committee. I believe that if there is a desire to restore the climate of confidence in consumers, it is not by wailing at the omerta that we will achieve it. Rather, it is by making all the light on the problems that have occurred. This is what we do through the audit, first and then, by putting in place radical and visible changes so that everyone involved in the AFSCA realizes the change. This must also occur within the company because what is perceived through the audit is that people are ill in their skin, not at ease in their work...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u50	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u51	But why, today, can't we start building a job on the basis of these audits – it's still a bit crazy! – so that the various parties involved in the AFSCA, both internally, on the consumer side and on the side of the small producers and players of the short circuits, perceive a real change of culture and the way in which the AFSCA works and the way in which it is possible to work with it? This is the only way we can do it. We have made proposals in the past. For example, the creation of a true Directorate-General for Support, with the aim of dissociating support from control on the one hand, and really strengthening and supporting small producers and short circuits in their work and action on the other. It is an issue for our health and for the economic development of our country. Given the context in which we find ourselves, it is really indispensable. We have long made the request that the AFSCA be removed from the purview of the Minister of Agriculture, but under that of the Minister of Health. We have explained this several times: the only way to avoid the risks associated with conflicts of interest in the assessment of risks and to the regulatory extent of control at the level of the agri-food sector is to achieve this change of control. The problems we are seeing today, in fact, are rooted in the desires and propensities of the agro-industrial sector to make profits on small acts and small things. This is what has been observed in the health problems of recent months. As a result, there is a need to refocus the AFSCA's action on health issues. That's one of our demands. We've already talked about it. We know we don't agree, but we want to say it again. What could be the collaboration between the steering committee and parliamentarians? Could proposals, for example, be submitted to that committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u52	Madam President, I did not intend to speak yet, but the reaction of some colleagues is exaggerated. Mrs Schlitz, in my opinion the best way to restore the confidence of the population is to stop giving bad information. Stop the fake news! You weren't there yet, but I remember very well what happened with Veviba and the fipronil. What was the first party to denounce the mafia functioning of the AFSCA? That's enough! It was not the minister who said that! You have to take your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u53	That's what the minister said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u54	Still, some opposition parties, including yours, have particularly noted this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u55	I do not allow you to imply that I said that there was a mafia system in the AFSCA. Be careful! Measure what you say when you quote a minister, ma'am!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u56	Honestly, I only intervene when it's really necessary. I don't want to tell things to tell them as some are capable of doing it. In our role as a parliamentarian, there is a semantics to keep. I don't want to be legal to anyone because it can happen to everyone to win, but from there to use the phrase "go to omerta", it's not really a parliamentary language. Be careful when you tell the minister what he did not say! This is not positive in relation to our debates. I want to conclude by thanking the representatives of AFSCA who were our experts today, for the work done, the report presented and the questions they answered correctly. I would like to point out that, on the basis of this report, 96 recommendations have been made and a steering committee will begin its work next week. What more do you want? That he would have started his work two weeks earlier when the report was not yet available? No! At some point, I said it once, I repeat, we have to keep it. We need to be consistent. Things are moving forward. Don't make people or anyone who wants to hear it believe that it's again a mafia system that's in place! That's not true! Parliament is doing its job. Parliament controls. The minister also did his job. Now we have to wait for the first results of this steering committee and the implementation of the recommendations. Please restore the truth once and for all!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u57	I note that in three months' time, in mid-March, we will have a first report in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u58	I'm surprised by what I hear. We are moving away from the food security debate and the AFSCA audit. If you want to, here I have an article in which you say about Veviba that "we are facing a system that I call mafia."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u59	You said today, "The minister said that AFSCA is a mafia system."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u60	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u61	We'll make you listen to the tapes again! That is what you said, and that is why the minister intervened to say that you were wrong! You have now read the proof that you have made a mistake! You have to admit it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u62	I did not use the word "mafia" once before your intervention. You said we called the system a mafia. I only stayed on the audit today! It is unfortunate that one does not stop deviating and fearing for his image rather than solving problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u63	I said there would be a report sent to the committee. If the commission wants us to discuss it, it will say it at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1007x.u64	I'm gonna close the meeting for today. I would like to thank Mrs Schoubs, the Minister and all my colleagues.
