ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u1	Question No 24128 by Mrs Ben Hamou is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u2	Minister, pursuant to the Government's agreement, the Act of 7 January 2018 amending the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons, and the Civil Code provide for a new period of regularization for weapons subject to authorization. The aim is to remove from illegality weapons which have been authorized by the above-mentioned law and which have not been declared at the end of the transitional period which ended on 31 October 2008. Tens of thousands of undeclared firearms, or even hundreds of thousands, are said to still be held illegally by individuals who, through negligence, but also for lack of information, have failed to regularize their situation. Many of our fellow citizens are concerned. The new regularisation period opened on 1 March and will end on 31 December 2018. In order for it to fulfil its objective of removing all these weapons from illegality, it is of course essential that the information reaches their holders. So my questions are as follows. Is an information campaign planned on the subject? I have seen that a few media outlets have reported on the opening of a new regularisation period and the various possibilities for regularisation. Are you planning another type of communication? This new period of regularization raises many questions with holders who need to regularize their situation. Will the 'arms' file on the FPS Justice website be updated to clearly explain the different possibilities for regularization and the way forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u3	Mr Clarinval, one of the objectives of the law of 7 January 2018 is indeed to bring out as many weapons as possible from illegality. To this end, I have planned to disseminate information as widely as possible through various channels. It is essential that the citizen be informed, in a timely manner, of the changes currently taking place in the law, in a clear and precise manner. A press release was launched to attract public attention in the media. We also made a communication on social networks. The Justice FPS site has been updated. Under the heading "Arms" are detailed information on the new amnesty period, the persons and weapons concerned, the various options available, the procedures to be followed and the period during which they are to be carried out, etc. A link makes it easy to find all the arms legislation currently in force. A booklet will have to be published in both languages, which will be distributed to police stations, provincial weapons services and other places regularly frequented by gunholders, including shooting stands. In addition, some governors have expressed their intention to send letters to known holders but whose weapons have not yet been regularized.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u4	Minister, you are currently modernising the legal professions to which lawyers belong. A text of more than 600 pages was distributed to all lawyers. In the margins of this operation there was a discussion between the Order and the universities about access to the profession and the necessary training for it. There was a discussion between them that involved your cabinet. The universities do not like to include a graduation "attorney" in the five-year programme, nor are they jumping for an extra year as a master after master. This year would not have been subsidised, so the cost would fall entirely on the students and the registration fee would be several thousands of euros. This would create an economic barrier. If there was a training between the master's degree in law and access to the desk, a selection procedure would be created whereby demand is greater than supply. Access to the profession of lawyer is regulated by the legislator. My question to you is: how do you see access to the profession of lawyer and the training for it, who should organise it and when should it preferably take place? The social status of the candidate attorney must also be clarified. This is a problem which has become more complex after the federalisation of family benefits. What solutions do you propose here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u5	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, as a result of the topical questions raised in the plenary session on Thursday 1 March, I explained the way in which the expert report on the future of the profession of lawyer was discussed. The report contains proposals on which the Community Orders carry out an internal consultation. In consultation with the Presidents of the Orders, I expect their response to this report by the end of May. An important theme in the report is indeed training for the profession of lawyer. The experts suggest the path of integrating part of vocational training into university training. This slope is also currently the subject of internal debate within the legal profession. I therefore await the position of the lawyer on this point. However, there has been informal consultation between the experts and the universities. The experts have prepared their report openly with the actors concerned. But once again, I await the views of the Orders before working out this or that piste. It is clear that the universities remain involved in the debate on the training of the lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u6	Merged Questions No. 24174) by Mrs Van Cauter and others, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 24265 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u7	Minister, we could read in the press that the federal government will pay one in three invoices late in 2017. All the federal administrations together left 266 626 invoices for too long last year. On average, it is already 56 days before payment is made, in 2016 this was 44 days. All these invoices together amount to EUR 1.6 billion. Outlier of all federal government services was Justice. In 2016, 119 000 invoices were paid late by the Justice Department. In 2017, this number increased to 171 599. In two out of three cases the invoices are paid late and on average the payment takes place only after 118 days. This will provide as much as 5.8 million euros of waste. This is very damaging for the hardworking people on the ground. When court psychiatrists, translators or experts have to wait so long for their money, this is not conducive to their performance in the future and quick and correct execution on the ground. In the beginning of the reigning period additional funds were provided for Justice, EUR 100 million, to remedy these situations. At the beginning of 2016, the situation seemed to be under control, but in the meantime this seems to be anything but the case. You also said in 2016 that you were going to set up specialised offices at the judicial districts with simpler administration. The billing would take place monthly instead of by order. Minister, I would have liked to have answered the following questions. How much (additional) budget have you received since the beginning of the government period in order to eliminate the delay in payments by the FPS Justice Department? What is the outstanding amount of unpaid invoices? How come the situation was under control at some point but apparently has escalated again? Can you give an overview of the number of invoices submitted locally over the last four years and can you divide them between timely and not timely? In case of non-timeliness, can you also indicate how late these were transferred to the FPS Justice in Brussels? Can you give an overview of whose invoices are still unpaid? Are there any other actors waiting for payment besides the legal psychiatrists, translators and experts? What progress has been made on setting up specialised offices by judicial arrondissements? Are these working everywhere? What are the short-term steps or initiatives you will take to overcome this delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u8	At the beginning of this year, I asked all ministers a written question concerning the timeliness or lateness of the payments they make for their creditors. I have recently received an answer from the Minister for the Budget to a number of these questions (written question No. 244). That answer shows that the FPS Justice Department is by far the worst student of the class. In 2016, the payment period was 88 days, which amounted to 118 days in 2017, a multiple of the average payment period for all FPS together. In 2016, 61.5 % of payments were made late by the Justice Department. In 2017, this increased to 69 %. In 2017, therefore, 5.8 million euros of interest was to be paid by the FPS Justice, which accounts for 89 percent of all interest that all FPS had to pay together in that year. As we know, the Justice Department has been dealing with this problem for a long time. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, this government therefore decided to remove the historical backlog in this area and paid a considerable amount of money for it, which was indeed a significant step forward. In the meantime, we can only see that the situation in the area of justice is once again seriously derailed. How come the situation has been seriously derailed again? Does this have structural causes or is it a lack of financial resources? Where exactly are the bottlenecks? What measures are you taking to remedy this? What objectives do you set yourself in this respect and within what time limit do you want to see it achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u9	Minister, the late payment of justice is a problem that has actually existed for a very long time and reappears every so often. At the beginning of the legislature you inherited a situation that was not so favourable and with extra budget you were able to rectify it. Now there are again problems, which you also confirmed a few weeks ago in an answer to an oral question. You said this was due to a lack of qualified staff, resources or knowledge of the instructions. I have the following questions for you. Can you confirm that, for procedural reasons, at least three months between the time of submission of the costs and the payment still runs? What is the state of play with regard to the budget to pay the payments? How was this budgeted last year and how much was actually spent? What is the current level of late payment? What arrondissements score bad? What plans do you have to eliminate the lack of qualified personnel? How will you improve the knowledge of the instructions? What training courses do you provide? A few weeks ago during the weekend there was a breakdown at the telephone exchange at the court of appeal in Antwerp. In the margins, it became clear that communication between the court and the prison is still carried out via fax messages. Do you think it is normal that this type of data should still be sent by fax? What solutions are currently being prepared to permanently bury the fax and by what time will they be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u10	Like you, I have also taken note of the reply of the Minister for the Budget to the parliamentary question of 24 January 2018. These are general figures drawn from the GSP database, which, however, reflect only a partial situation for the Justice Department. The total number of invoices for Justice in 2017 was calculated at 248 774. However, no account was taken of 222 993 invoices for urgent court fees paid by the Registry and 50 000 invoices for telephone tap orders. If you count it, you will get a total of 521 000 invoices for Justice, out of a total of 1 093 000 invoices for the entire federal government. This means that the Justice Department is responsible for half of all federal invoices, in number and not in amounts. While the average time limit for the 248 774 invoices in 2017 was translated into a payment period of 118 days, the average payment period of the expense statements for urgent court fees is............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In addition, the statistics show 5 783 306 euros of lingering interest. These are legal interests which the court grants in the case of large claims files in which the Justice defends the Belgian State. Indeed, some very old files were completed in 2017. In 2017, the real interest rates will be only 113 000 euros. That's not at all half of the state's waste. I would like to provide you with the statistics 2015-2018 from the initial budget court fees and from the final budget. The conclusion is that, in addition to the catching-up operation, no additional funds were allocated in 2015 to eliminate the loopholes in the Justice Department. The other operations have been carried out through shifts or redistributions, either within the justice budget or through the rights of justice on interdepartmental commissions. As already in response to numerous parliamentary questions, I continue to confirm that by the end of 2015 all cost statements dating from before 1 January 2015 were paid in 2015. All known backyards were disposed of. On the date of 8 January 2018, I found that the full 100% of the available credit for 2017 was committed and paid up to the last euro. On the date of 6 March 2018, only 704 257 euros have been paid to well-known cost statements for experts with date 2017 not yet paid. Since the translators are paid locally by the Registrys and not centrally by my services, through the mechanism of urgent court fees, I cannot answer the exact question of how many are still outstanding. In 2018 2 698 795 euros were already paid to cost statements with invoice date 2017, of which 1 594 923 euros on the visa 2018. It concerns the overflow of cost statements from December, delayed cost statements transmitted or in the meantime corrected cost statements previously contested. In those circumstances talking about behind is therefore not entirely correct. This can be better qualified as the normal overflow between two budget years. So it is certainly not possible to speak of a new serious derailment. The currently unpaid cost statements from 2017 cover the following categories: laboratory investigations of 266 927 euros, medical expertise of 172 248 euros, bailiffs of 103 350 euros, mental examinations of 71 406 euros, other experts of 90 324 euros. You are right to say that the files to be forwarded by the Secretariats and Registrys may not have arrived at the central service, even if they have been identified in the accounting application, in which they should be included as soon as possible. So we need to start checking those files. There may be several reasons why a file has not yet been forwarded. This is mainly due to the fact that the magistrate was not satisfied with the report, that he did not agree with the assessment or that the file had not yet been delivered to the Registry or the Secretariat. It's the magistrates who value the expertise. There is certainly one category that is always late, namely the files of the autonomous police investigation, APO. All costs of such a file will only be sent to the court after the whole procedure, which lasts on average six months. You also asked about the statistics of the number of cost statements for urgent and non-urgent court fees in the last four years and what was paid in good time or not. I cannot give figures for the full package in 2014, because at that time only the police guards and first instance were already connected to the new accounting application and then not for the full twelve months. I'll do it from 2015. You can obtain statistics of urgent and non-urgent court expenses via the committee secretariat. Special rules apply when charging treatment periods, which vary according to the type of claim. In the SAP accounting system, public procurement is subject to payment code ZP01, giving 30 days to accept the performance and 50 days to pay the invoice. For other invoices, it is usually paid with code ZP05, giving 30 days for acceptance of the performance and 30 days for payment. In the case of court fees, acceptance of the performance and the payment process is usually a joint process with application of once thirty days. This 30-day period has also not been applied for non-urgent court fees in the GSP statistics, as they are paid immediately with the code ZP04. As a result, the 30-day deadline will expire and the theoretical delay from the identification of the costs in our budget application to the effective payment will therefore almost be the full treatment period. In a normal way, the 25,23-day payment period for the 220 000 invoices on urgent court fees in 2017 would mean much less premature payments on average. Of course, the average does not say anything about the handling of individual files, which can be much delayed. I regret that situation and have asked my administration to better manage the time limits for each dossier locally at the Registry. I have already discussed the staffing problems in the Court of First Instance in the first nine months of 2017 in previous parliamentary questions. Between 15 August and 1 October, new staff were recruited, who worked very hard during the last three months of the year to catch up. The last delaying factor was certainly the very late commitment of the terra-credits, which make up one fifth of the global loan. The Minister of Budget wrote to me with the commitment to release that envelope by trimester in 2018, so that the treatment period will not run as long as in 2017. In order to speed up the current treatment of court fees, I have already taken several measures. First, each magistrate is obliged by potpourriwet III to receive training in court fees at the IGO. Secondly, the Central Court Office has created a quality manual to standardise and improve the processing of the cost statements of translators' interpreters. The professional associations were involved and it was explained in the auditorium for more than two hundred translators-interpreters. A similar quality manual is in preparation for the reimbursement of claims. Thirdly, in the Joint Consultation Committee of 21 February 2018, the colleges of the seat and the public prosecutor were asked to send a further binding letter to encourage their services to speed up the handling of court fees and to speed up identification. Finally, the new law on court fees and the Royal Decree on the organisation of court fees are almost ready. Of course, they still have to go down the regulatory road. This new law and the Royal Decree, of course, incorporate the principle of the local court fees per district. Such an agency will consist of a valuation firm and a liquidation firm. At the end of 2017, Selor published calls for nominations of accountant. Following the screening of the curricula vitae, the first Selor test took place in the week of 12 February 2018. The second test is currently being entered in Selor's work schedule and should end on 29 March. Afterwards, the new staff will take an internship at the Central Court Office. They will then be deployed on the ground in their respective offices. Together with the digitisation of the electronic claim and e-invoicing process, currently in testing in Leuven and Mons, this should lead to even more acceptable payment periods.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the last words. I believe that everyone is waiting for payment periods that are even more acceptable. Apparently, you have taken steps to better organise the payment of urgent and non-urgent court fees on the ground. In your answer, I'm missing one more case. How much court fees are in circulation? You said that all budget appropriations for 2017 have been committed and paid. However, court fees had to be passed on to next year, if I have followed your explanation correctly. Do I have to understand that there would be insufficient resources? Does this have to do with the fact that there is insufficient knowledge or management of court fees in circulation? Maybe I should come back to that in another question. I'll analyse your answer carefully. I understand that efforts and efforts are being made, that investments are being made to give all invoices in good time. If the submission is checked in time, timely payment can follow. I'd like to remember how much is in circulation. Maybe it'll be all right then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u12	Mr Minister, I will read your very comprehensive answer carefully, because you can read it more quickly than I can record. However, I understand clearly that you are working on it and making efforts to make the payment period acceptable. I welcome your draft law on the treatment of court fees. Saving is basically the thread of your justice policy. I do not need to repeat that you do not find in me any supporter of saving measures at the expense of safety. When it comes to measures that can reduce interest in court costs, you can certainly count on my support for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u13	Minister, I can only endorse this. Thank you for your detailed answer, which I will also have to read. In my question I referred to a payment period of at least three months. I hear it's 55.23 days, so that's already reduced. I think that is a good thing; we are following up on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u14	Mr President, Minister, the written press reported last week that four prisoners of the aid prison in Leuven had collapsed, presumably following an overdose of narcotics. We have known for some time that drug use within the prison walls is a major problem. Sometimes the inmates are already addicted when they end up in prison, teaching others how to use drugs in prison themselves. One in three used drugs in prison. Last year, you and your colleague, Minister De Block, came forward with a plan of action. Some pilot projects on drug use were set up in the Hasselt, Brussels and Liège prisons. The aim is to involve and direct various local actors and actors in the welfare sector in prison policy so as to improve the rehabilitation process of the drug addict inmate. Firstly, where are you and your colleague, Minister De Block, with your plan of action? Secondly, what are the results of the pilot projects? Thirdly, what lessons will be drawn from this? Fourthly, what measures will you take in Leuven's emergency prison to prevent situations if they have occurred?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, there are pilot projects in the prisons of Hasselt, Sint-Gillis and Lantin. They were started on 15 December 2017 by the FPS Public Health and are therefore still in the start-up phase. During the start-up, attention was initially paid to the integration of these projects into the regular functioning of prisons in general and to their alignment with existing medical services. For example, the prison in Saint Gillis has a specific effect that focuses on drug problems and the new player, the I-Care association, focuses on the group of drug addicts, other than the opiate dependents, who have not yet been sufficiently achieved. The bridge function of I-Care to the outside world for the sake of continuity of service is also an important point of attention. With regard to the projects in Hasselt and Lantin, the focus is on developing the screening round to better identify the nature and extent of the drug phenomenon and then to better coordinate cooperation with external services. In view of the recent start-up of the three projects, this is logically in an exploratory phase and it is premature to draw up an evaluation. Last Sunday's incident in Leuven's emergency prison was of a different order, since it was about the introduction of drugs through the outside world. This means, of course, that there are drug users within these prisons and the way in which these prisoners are succeeded is, of course, the subject of discussions within the local Working Party on Drugs. It could also be an indication that the control and security processes to prevent the presence of drugs in prison are relatively efficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u16	Minister, I hear there are pilot projects going on. Can I know when the first evaluation will take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u17	As soon as possible, but there has to be a reasonable experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u18	Mr President, Minister, twenty-four students from KU Leuven have spent a semester in Leuven-Central prison thinking about just and efficient punishments. Their findings were normally handed over to you last week. The students first wondered what to expect from a punishment. Crimes must be punished; people must be discouraged from committing crimes; we must be able to live in a safer society; victims' suffering must be compensated and perpetrators supported. Those were some important goals. According to the researchers, the current system of prison sentences is unsuitable to achieve the above-mentioned goals. According to them, punishment makes people worse rather than better because of a structural lack of assistance and guidance in prisons and because of the unpredictable duration of the sentence. According to the students, one of the main causes is the uncertainty and uncertainty about the duration of the sentence for the prisoner. If an end date is immediately pricked, it is much more comfortable for the prisoner. The prisoners will then know the date from which they will be able to work on their future again, which is now rather unclear and uncertain. Another point on which students stress is that prisoners need to be accompanied much more individually, so that it is easier for them to re-integrate into society afterwards. In addition to the figures, we note that Belgium pays 124.81 euros a day for a prisoner, with 57.6 % of all convicted persons reappearing after a period of 18 years. Compared to Sweden, for example, where a prisoner costs 620 euros a day, but the relapse rate is only 14%, Belgium lags well behind. Minister, I have three questions. Firstly, do you agree with the findings of the students of KU Leuven? Secondly, what is your view of a good and just punishment? Thirdly, do you agree that the current prison system is not working properly and that something needs to change structurally?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u19	Mrs Lambrecht, the vision text of the study project "prison punishment as a living reality" of twelve students and twelve prisoners is evidence of an intensive reflection process on a meaningful interpretation of the penalty. There is no broad social consensus on this. The students did not come up with unanimous solutions either. Whether the sentence imposed and its execution are fair is answered differently depending on whether the question is addressed to the sentenced person, the victim or his environment, or to the man in the street. Personally, I believe that a punishment should be rewarded to some extent, and in this way preventively, but that it should also have positive effects on the recovery and compensation of the victims and society, on the one hand, and on the reintegration and improvement of the offender, on the other. So these are three objectives. These objectives are also put forward by the Expert Committee on the new Criminal Code as the objectives of the punishment. Often these objectives can be better pursued by penalties other than imprisonment. The new criminal law already provides for a wide range of alternative penalties. The experts argue for the abolition of prison sentences below the year because the infringement for which a short sentence is imposed is disproportionate to the consequences for the offender. With regard to the repeated figures you mentioned, I have other data. The NICC study states that 44.1 % of prisoners are recurrent, not 57.6 %. The rate of 57.6 % was calculated on the basis of prisoners and non-convicts, for example those who committed traffic offences. One of the conclusions of the NICC's research is that the Belgian findings on repeated crime do not differ so much from the results in our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u20	Mr Minister, I understand that in theory you agree with a lot of fine principles of recovery and recovery for the victims and the reintegration of the perpetrators, but my feeling, looking at the actions and reality, is that there is still a lot of work to be done in prisons. We are certainly not doing very well in terms of the good guidance of prisoners to bring them back into society and to re-integrate them properly. Thank you for correcting my relapse rates. Not 57, but 44 %, you said, but I must confess that I am also very scared of 44 % repeated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u21	Minister, last week I asked you a question about Nigerian girls in prostitution, often very young girls aged 14, 15 or 16. The arrival of young Nigerian girls started in Italy a few decades ago and has now expanded all over Europe. The girls have to pay back a loan of between €20,000 and €60,000 to their Nigerian pimps or madams in a short time. It's an institutionalized system in Nigeria. The girls knock for many hours and are here illegally. They are exploited and may be the victims of trafficking in human beings. Aid organisations such as Payoke, Sürya and VAG-ASA provide very important work in the reception and support of victims, in particular in the context of the special protection procedure for victims of trafficking in human beings. However, these organisations are struggling with their funding. There is no structural funding, which means that these three organisations were unable, for example, to provide permanence for 24 hours out of 24 and 7 days out of 7 between April and October 2017, while the care of victims also happens outside office hours. In the past, the three recognized centres received subsidies from the National Lottery and from Work and Equal Opportunities. Between 2002 and 2015, they also received a project grant of around €100,000 per year per aid organisation of the Federal Impuls Fund for Migrant Policy. These are always grants for a year. It is therefore not structural funding. The years of funding of Work and Equal Opportunities are now being funded from the Justice Department for the period 2017-2018-2019. Minister, do you have any more information on the creation of federal subsidies for the aid organisations for victims of trafficking in human beings for these three organisations? What elements were involved in the difficult development of funding for the period 2017-2019? Do you agree with the need for structural funding, not project-wise, of aid organisations for victims of trafficking in human beings, so that they are never without means of action? Are there plans to provide more structural funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u22	Mrs Van Hoof, the centres for the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings play an important role in line with our international obligations to protect the victims of trafficking in human beings. They provide care to the victims of trafficking in human beings and provide psychological and medical assistance and legal assistance to victims, provided that they actively cooperate with the courts to have the traffickers convicted. Last year there was indeed a great deal of uncertainty about the funding of the centres. This situation had arisen because funds from the Federal Impuls Fund for Migrant Policy used until 2016 to supplement the regular federal funding of the centres at the level of Equal Opportunities had been exhausted. On a proposal from me and after intensive consultation with the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, the Council of Ministers decided to transfer the budget for the specialised reception centres for victims of trafficking from Equal Opportunities to Justice. In addition, it was decided that the three centres of both departments, through the interdepartmental commission up to 2019, could each benefit from EUR 166 000 additional funding annually. Thus, the budget for these centres was finally stabilised and the punctual solutions sought in the past to fund the centres were put to an end. This agreement applies only to this legislature. Consequently, it is up to the next government to examine its continuation or to consider other options.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is good that they receive additional resources, given the pressing situation of the Nigerian girls who are numerous in our country. It is important that we provide for these resources in the context of the protection procedure. They can provide important support in the context of the judicial investigation. Payoke, Sürya and VAG-ASA play a special role. So it's now settled until 2019. We hope that the additional funding will continue to be available afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u24	Mr President, Minister, the Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CPT) of the Council of Europe published its last report on Thursday 8 March. Although he welcomed some positive developments in the Belgian prison environment, he also pointed to serious and systemic problems. Among the positive developments reported by the CPT, there is a marked decrease in prison overcrowding in Belgium. At the beginning of 2017, during the seventh visit to a number of Belgian prisons, the Council of Europe body accounted for 10,800 inmates, representing an overpopulation rate of 16%. In October 2014, when you took office, Minister, prison overcrowding still peaked at more than 24%. Today, it is down to 12%. Unfortunately, in addition to this overall situation, which is more in the right direction, towards a decrease in prison overcrowding, there are still real black spots, especially in Brussels, where there is an increasing overcrowding (more than 50% at Saint-Gilles prison) and structures that are largely ageing. The Committee has also observed a shortage of organized activities for detainees, which can obviously have negative consequences, such as increased tensions, frustrations and violence or an increased risk of radicalization. Further on, the CPT denounces systemic problems with regard to prison psychiatric facilities, in particular at the Lantin prison: lack of staff, treatment limited to pharmacological treatment, unsatisfactory management of psychiatric emergencies. I asked you a question about the sometimes problematic use of DHBP (dehydrobenzperidol). This neuroleptic has been used for years in prison and in a closed centre as a medicine for "calming" prisoners deemed too excited or too nervous. The report also refers to several cases of excessive use of force, usually during or shortly after arrest. It reveals allegations of recent physical ill-treatment of men incarcerated by some prison officers, including team leaders. The CPT also calls for the establishment of a basic prison service to ensure that the basic rights of detainees are guaranteed - showers, visits, preau, installation, meals, etc. The Committee makes a series of recommendations to improve the situation. Since I introduced my question, I have read that you went to Strasbourg on Tuesday to give your version and your answer to the report. Minister, can you outline the message you delivered to the Council of Europe last Tuesday? How will you put in place a specific action plan to address the serious problems highlighted in the report? Use of force, inadequate psychiatric care, overcrowding, particularly in Brussels, old institutions. Do you intend to implement the report's recommendations in the coming weeks? Not everything can be implemented by the end of the legislature in a year's time. What are your priorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u25	Mr Vanden Burre, Mr President, I am obviously informed of the remarks and observations made by the CPT in its report of 8 March 2018. The themes on which they are based are therefore reflected in my policy on prisons. The prison population has decreased from almost 12,000 inmates at the beginning of this legislature to about 10,300 at present. Unfortunately, an unexpected loss of capacity of more or less 400 places occurred during the same period, in addition to the planned stoppage of the Tilburg establishment's rental. The effect on the rate of overpopulation was therefore not felt in the same order of magnitude. I particularly target half of the population in Forest and part of the population in Merksplas, which has had to be displaced because of the work that has to be completed there. Add to this the difficulties we are experiencing in Belgium in building new prisons because of environmental permits and building permits, which are hard to obtain, and you will understand that we still have to undergo this phenomenon for some time. Organizing activities for all detainees is of course an ongoing concern. With this in mind, the prison services are in constant consultation with the competent departments of the Communities. During this term, the number of prisoners interned also decreased from almost 1,200 in 2013 to 563 today, or half. Following the execution of Masterplan III, it will in principle be possible to provide for placement for each interned person in an institution of care. The reduction in the number of internees will allow us to allocate optimally the available medical teams and teams. I would also like to point out that care providers in prisons follow the standards specific to this professional sector. During the training, as well as in the case of the day-to-day management of prisons, special attention is paid to the integrity of prison staff in contact with prisoners. If necessary, disciplinary action shall be taken. With regard to the guaranteed minimum service, I confirm my previous reply indicating that this dossier is in the final phase of the consultations. In addition, I wish to submit it to the government in the short term. The discussions held yesterday in Strasbourg with the President of the CPT, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the President of the European Court of Human Rights went very well. I reiterated my commitment to ensure that Belgium complies with the requests of the Council of Europe and its respective bodies. The CPT's report, which has been made public, confirms that all Council of Europe bodies believe in Belgium's goodwill and its progress in responding to its criticisms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will read in detail. As was often said in this commission, many prisons offer no possibility of activities. I recently visited Saint-Gilles prison and saw, for example, that the library was closed. This problem must remain one of your priorities. Secondly, we have discussed the construction of prisons on numerous occasions. I imagine you're referring in particular to Haren's. It is clear that, for us, developing mega-correctional projects is not a solution. This will be used, in particular, to move the problem. I know the old buildings of Saint-Gilles and Forest, where the conditions of detention are completely unacceptable. It is therefore not an option to maintain them, but from there to build a huge complex such as Haren, we ecologists cannot validate this answer. That is not what we expect from a prison policy aimed at reducing prison overcrowding in the medium term. We share this goal with you. That is why we hope that you will continue to do so. Finally, it is important to find a solution to move the internees, because we know that their place is obviously not in prison. True structural measures must therefore be taken. We will follow this file carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u27	Question No 24258 by Mr Gautier Calomne is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u28	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u29	Mr President, Minister, on 31 January 2018, I asked you a question about the problem of the bugged telephone calls in the Brussels correctional court, which allowed a drug gang to go free. At first it was thought that the DVDs with the phone calls were unreadable. Eventually they were readable, but in court apparently the wrong application was used to listen to the DVDs. Recently, the trial against Flemish MEP Christian Van Eyken could not start because of a computer that overheated. The defense complained that the surveillance footage could not be viewed, so the clients could not be properly defended. That process is almost symbolic of the problems facing Justice in 2018. Minister, how many criminal cases were there in 2017 that could not be launched or criminal cases in which the defendants were cleared of procedural errors due to defective material? Will you take steps to renew the outdated material in the courts, so that such situations are a thing of the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, with regard to your first question, statistics cannot be provided by the College of Attorneys General at the time when an oral question is answered. With regard to your second question, in the files you referred to, there is not really any outdated material, nor is there any misuse. There is now a roll-out programme for the Kiosk PCs, on which the files are consulted. This roll-out program not only increases the number of available Kiosk PCs, but also replaces the increasingly obsolete ones. The renewal of the hardware in the Registry requires, as everywhere, a permanent renewal investment, whatever happens. For security reasons, the FPS Justice has a strict policy on what can be installed on a PC to avoid viruses and other dangers. Kiosk PCs have an even stricter policy, in that they may only contain software necessary for the use for which they are intended. Those Kiosk PCs for the consultation of the electronic file or for the consultation of beliefs only contain the software needed to do so. The incident referred to was not about an overheated computer, but about a forensic bridge. That is a special external device in which the forensic hard drive is mounted, which guarantees that no data is changed on that drive. The original device was delivered by the federal police. Following the identification on 11 December 2017 of the defect of the forensic bridge and since the federal police could not deliver a new device, the FPS Justice has decided to purchase such a device itself. That aircraft was made available to the Registry on 12 January 2018. The file could therefore be read in a timely and correct manner. Everyone is in favour of the electronic submission of conclusions, first and foremost the legal profession, because of the many advantages. In order to make this possible, IT infrastructure is needed and this requires investment costs and permanent maintenance costs on the recipient's side, in this case Justice, and on the part of the senders, in this case the lawyer. For Justice, this is financed by the ICT budget Justice. The desks decide on their ICT business model. The applications were indeed tested for their compatibility with Windows 10 before being rolled out. This was done as follows. In spring 2017, 4 613 laptops with Windows 10 were distributed under the Judicial Order in 21 weeks. All 42 applications for the Judicial Order were tested under Windows 10 prior to the roll-out in autumn 2016, first by the developers and then by a group of test users. Each application was rolled out after a prior chord to Windows 10. The problems identified during the test period were discussed with the users in the weeks prior to the start of the roll-out and classified with them according to severity. At the start of the roll-out all known troublesome or blocking problems were solved. Shortly after the start of the roll-out there were some complaints about the size of the font in the application court of appeal. As a solution, a larger screen was offered. However, some of the users found this solution unworkable. Finally, in common agreement, 37 users except their Windows 10 device decided to provide a second laptop with Windows 7 only for the use of that particular application. For the investigators it was clear from the start that their application would not run under Windows 10 in time. A new version suitable for this was in preparation, but due to a delay in the development not yet ready when completing the roll-out on 21 July 2017. It was therefore decided to allow the investigators to work with Windows 7 for the time being. 130 Windows 10 devices were reserved for them in order to switch immediately. For the e-Box it would lead us too far here to discuss the entire project. The judicial order first chose to be able to send as much as possible rather than receive. This presupposes that the main actors to whom messages are sent are equipped with an e-Box. By the end of the summer of 2018, all lawyers and notaries will be equipped with them, so that a massive shipment can be started. The intention is to deliver all judgments, including judgments in criminal matters, electronically to lawyers within five working days. For this purpose, a legislative amendment has been introduced in the law on the reduction of workload, which we will be discussing in the Justice Committee next Wednesday, 21 March 2018. Afterwards, other shipments will follow. The documents relating to the incompetences have been sent from the peace courts through the e-Box for some time and have been published automatically in the Belgian Official Journal. The work auditorates will soon be equipped with the e-Box to organise the communication with the database of electronic records of the inspection services Economy, Social Affairs, Environment and this. We regularly receive additional questions from other actors to connect to that network, such as the municipalities and the provinces. We are in agreement with them on this. Thank you, Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u31	Mr President, Minister, with all due respect, I must point out that I am asking two simple questions on two issues, which are also very easy to understand. Firstly, a drug gang goes free because there is first a so-called problem with bugged phone calls that cannot be traced and seem to be illegible. My second question was about the trial of Mr Van Eyken, a former Flemish Member of Parliament. The process could not start because the computer overheated. Apparently there was another technical problem. Minister, as far as my question on the number of criminal cases is concerned, I understand that you do not have all the figures yet. I hope I get to see them later. When will that happen? How many criminal cases could not continue in 2017 due to procedural errors? Another question was whether you will take steps to renew the outdated material in the courts. I then hear cases about new computers, which will digitally deliver sentences to the lawyers within five days. However, that was not my question at all. It is about the problems that arise at the processes or at the start of the processes themselves, so that a process, like that against Christian Van Eyken, cannot even start. I know you may not be answering much now. I'm really hungry with this answer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u32	Mrs Lambrecht, I have answered your question. You'll be able to read that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u33	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u34	Questions Nos 24292, 24294 and 24300 by Mr Vermeulen were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u35	Minister, the Supreme Court of Justice has suggested in an opinion to the government that the system of accountability must be adapted as a matter of urgency. Right now, the court has only two options. Or someone's sane and there's gonna be a punishment. Or someone is insane and is not guilty and then internment follows. The Supreme Court of Justice is convinced that a system with degrees of accountability will work better. By building gradations one can say that someone is reduced insanity. Then that person may receive a clear punishment for the part for which he is responsible, but at the same time there is the caring aspect, because there is a mental disorder that needs to be addressed. The introduction of degrees of accountability was included in the 2014 coalition agreement. I can therefore assume that you are in favour of this, Minister. We are now 2018. Do you intend to introduce the new system of degrees of accountability in this legislature? How do you see the practical implementation of a system of gradations with a combination of punishment and care?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u36	During this legislature, we thoroughly repaired the law on internment through the potpourriwet III of 4 May 2016. We are now working on a new Criminal Code and a new Code of Punishment. During the discussions on the three drafts in the government, the degrees of accountability have no longer been maintained. The experts ordered the drafting of a Criminal Code, referred to it in their explanatory memorandum proposal, but did not include it in their legislative proposal itself. There is a risk that the introduction of gradations will lead to endless debates on the level of criminal responsibility and the degree of allocation of the facts to the person. It has been and is being chosen to achieve the same effects and results through regulations that have a long tradition in our criminal law, namely the imposition of probation conditions and the application of mitigating circumstances. I'm declaring myself. In a legal system with arrangements relating to reduced accountability as in the Netherlands, it is clearly stated that this is not a basis for debt exclusion. The behavior or act can be attributed to the perpetrator, who is responsible for his actions, but it can result in a milder punishment. This milder punishment may include the additional imposition of treatment, the so-called posting. In the present and future Belgian criminal law, the application and imposition of the probation penalty as an autonomous penalty or the postponement of the enforcement of penalties provided that conditions of probation are imposed ensure that the judge can determine, on the substance of the sanctioning, the follow-up of a counseling or therapy. In the event of a delay in enforcement, the judge may, moreover, jointly pronounce an effective prison sentence and a penalty with probation delay. Punishment and care can therefore also be combined today. A degree of mental disorder can also be accepted as a mitigating circumstance by the judge on the substance, which automatically means a lighter punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u37	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Do I understand correctly that the current legislation also allows the judge to pronounce less severe penalties and to provide for care, and that the degrees of accountability, as agreed in the coalition agreement, will not be achieved? I am not saying whether that is good or bad. So what is in the coalition agreement will not be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u38	I replied to your question, Mrs Lambrecht. You'll read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u39	Mr Minister, on 8 March 2018, a traffic accident aged 27 was dealt with in front of a court in Ghent. In 1991 Mr Helpia was involved in a traffic accident when he was 33 years old. He's 60 now! Why the case before the Court of First Instance had to drag on for so long, none of the parties could fully declare. The latest reliable figures from the College of Attorney General, which date back to 2015, showed that there were still several thousand criminal cases pending from the 1990s. In addition to the number of criminal cases pending, there is, of course, also the legal delay which can be described as the time required for a case to be settled definitively. I have four questions here, Minister. How many criminal cases in the last century are still pending? How many criminal cases have been added a year since 2015? Can you give an overview of the legal backlog by district and by court? What do you see as possible solutions to the problem outlined?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u40	Mrs Lambrecht, of course I have wonderful people and an incredible College of Attorneys General, but in the short term I really cannot provide statistical data. Nor is it a previous written question which was converted into an oral question. If you give me a little more time, I will try to provide a decent answer to your question, even though statistical information is not so obvious. Out of collegiality, I'd like to try that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u41	Minister, I would like to thank you very much for that. Could you possibly tell me how much time it takes for this to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u42	I will reply in French, Mrs Lambrecht:il faut le temps quиil faut.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u43	Minister, at the time I introduced my question, I must be honest, of course I was not aware of the Veviba case. The latter reinforces me in the importance of the question that I am asking you today. This is not the first time that I have been interested in the situation of the judiciary in the province of Luxembourg, in the rather glaring shortage of staff, which is not specific to the province, but which is perhaps a little more marked. I do not know if we can make a connection with this issue and the matter that is taking place in the political arena. However, when we talk with magistrates from different jurisdictions, and a fortiori with prosecutors, they tell us almost all that there are files that sleep, that are sometimes not even open, for lack of staff. I do not claim that the Veviba file slept for lack of staff. In general, however, a reflection on the functioning of justice is essential, as it is an essential public service, particularly in the criminal field, and in order to avoid the abandonment of prosecutions because of the misconduct of staff members. In the province of Luxembourg, this issue is of particular concern. In October 2016, the President of the Luxembourg Court of First Instance gave a somewhat flattering picture of the state of the judiciary in his province, in relation to the state and lack of security of buildings, problems of computerization and staff shortages, etc. In November 2016, I had already had the opportunity to question you on these issues, following the statements of this court president. I would like to take stock of the development of this issue, since it seems that the situation has not improved very much. With regard to the situation of the staff and, more specifically, that of the Registry, the Registrars' cadre, comprising the Chief Registrar, the Heads of Service and the Registrars, is expected to be 28 members. Its current occupation would be only 22.8 persons, and therefore just under 23 staff members. The assistant staff is 17. His current occupation would be less than 12 personnel, precisely 11.9, due to part-time work. The employees' cadre is 12 and its current occupation is slightly more than 10. The total framework is thus 57 units while the current total occupation is, only, 44.8. As a result, 78.5 per cent of the staff in the legal framework are expected to be reduced by 1 June due to retirement, which would bring the actual framework down to just over 76 per cent. In recent years, some places have indeed been published. So far, almost all of them have been filled by persons already in office, under contract to the Court of First Instance, which means that there has been no increase in the number of members in the office of the Registry. For magistrates, the current framework would be only 88 per cent. You may tell me that in comparison with other springs or boroughs, this is a satisfactory average in your eyes. Given that managers have not been reviewed for a number of years for a number of boroughs, the fact that the filling rate is insufficient is probably an aggravating factor. So, Minister, can you tell me what will be done to fill the shortage of particularly high staff in the registry offices? Can you also tell me if the judge's place, currently vacant, will be published in order to occupy at least the 90% framework and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u44	Mr President, Mr Maingain, following a recent appointment of a judge from the Court of First Instance to the Police Court of Luxembourg, the number of judges in the Court of First Instance is currently 21 on a cadre of 24. It is true that, at the Registry, 45.8 persons are currently on duty on a legal framework of 53 to which 4 (authorized number) must be added, for a total of 57. The appointment of an assistant is currently under way. In addition, a vacant clerk's seat was published on 22 December 2017 and two vacant assistant seats were published on 30 January 2018. My administration regularly reports on the occupation of executives in different jurisdictions. The monitoring of staff credits and the possibilities for action provided by operational margin lead to consultation with the College of Courts and Courts and the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to determine priorities. However, I have already indicated that the legal frameworks have been set in a historical context and therefore have only a relative value, and do not allow staff to be distributed according to the real needs of the courts. In my view, workload indicators should further determine priorities for the publication of vacancies or for the recruitment of staff. I also note that the Supreme Council of Justice also points out, in its audit of human resources management in the courts of first instance in December 2017, that a common, reliable and agreed-upon instrument to measure workload should condition the distribution of human resources in the future. Following the monitoring of staff appropriations carried out by SPF BOSA in February, my strategic cell and administration are again working with the Colleges in order to re-publish the vacant places in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u45	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. I know it because this is not the first time that we have discussed the issue of executives and their effectiveness in terms of occupancy. I have known the debate on workload since I was a Member of Parliament. There is no minister who has not replied to me every time: "We have to assess the workload." I hear there are new methods. And an evaluation was carried out in a number of jurisdictions. I do not know whether, for the province of Luxembourg, there has been an assessment of the workload, but I am still going on the principle that the presidents of the courts have been held accountable. We wanted them to be the managers of their jurisdiction. I do not like the term "manager" but, at the time, this was explained when we made the reform of the functions of president of jurisdiction. They're in the best position to know... They cannot be asked to be responsible at the same time, and then when they cry out and cry out, saying: "We lack magistrates!", Ignore them. They're the ones who know what's going on with the workload. Or let's stop trying to hold them accountable! Let us stop asking them to be the "protons" of their jurisdiction! So, in this case, I think the president of the court of first instance was right to say, "I need the staff provided for in the framework." So let us not try to relativize the importance of executives! They are here, or so come up with proposals to change the frameworks, with objective data, and we can discuss it, but I have never seen this debate happen in Parliament in a precise and rigorous manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u46	Mr President, Minister, in the last few days we have once again been faced with a scandal in the meat industry and yet again with regard to food safety. We are running from crisis to crisis. If it is not a food scandal, then there is a serious incident in slaughterhouses or in the processing meat industry. The BFSA has prepared an explanation each time, waving that these are isolated incidents or one-off frauds, but things keep coming, one after the other. The consumer and the farmer are always the victims. The first signal that Veviba took a walk with the legislation was already sent in the autumn of 2016. The complaint arrived via Kosovo at the food agency, which had to send an inspector to the Balkan country because the food inspection had established that there had been cheated with a load of meat. A file was drawn up and filed at the Luxembourg public prosecutor's office. I am talking about 2016. Only during a search on Friday 2 March did problems appear in the processing workshop and the cold store in Bastenaken. Minister, how many food safety irregularities have been reported to the public by the Food Agency over the last three years? How many court investigations were opened as a result of this? In how many cases did it come to an effective conviction? My second question follows on from that. I'll skip the introduction to save time. It's about Kosovo and 2016. Since autumn 2016, the file has been on the Office of the Office of the Office of Luxembourg, Neufchâteau. However, it took until 28 February 2018 for a search to take place, i.e. one year and eight months later. Pursuant to Article 151 (1) of the Constitution, the Public Prosecutor's Office is independent in the individual investigation and prosecution, without prejudice to the right of the competent minister to order the prosecution and to lay down binding criminal policy guidelines, including those of the investigation and prosecution policy. The fact that the public prosecutor is independent in individual investigations and prosecutions may be constitutional, but this does not mean that the public prosecutor should be irresponsible and that you have no political responsibility for the failure of the public prosecutor when it comes to our food safety. We had a hearing on Monday. There were three ministers there. I wonder why people have not thought about inviting the Minister of Justice too. When did the prosecutor order an investigating judge with the investigation? Why was 18 months waited before a search was carried out, when our food safety was at stake? Thirdly, what steps has the public prosecutor taken to ensure that food safety is not at stake? Fourthly, what are the guidelines in criminal law policy when it comes to ensuring our food safety? Fifthly, is guaranteeing food safety in Belgium a priority for the public prosecutor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u47	Mr Minister, on 19 September 2016, a truck of meat from Veviba from Bastenaken arrived in Kosovo. Most of the labels were torn from the packaging, but leftovers showed that the meat was already dated 2004. It was repacked in boxes with the company's brand number itself. It's in a court report that a journalist could see. The same month, the Federal Food Agency received a complaint from the Kosovar Food Inspectorate, after which a Belgian inspector was sent on the spot. A week later, a police report was sent to the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office. Your colleague, the Minister for Agriculture, announced this on Monday during the exchange of views in the Committee on Health. The chronology at least raises questions about the approach of the court, because there they knew that meat of twelve years old was sold. However, it took more than one and a half years, until 28 February 2018, for a search to be carried out. So there are two possibilities: either the court has quickly requested a court of inquiry, which then went to the search, and the case has remained with the investigating judge, or the court has waited a very long time to bring an investigation court forward and has quickly taken action. That is not clear at the moment, but it is essential to determine where any responsibilities lie. I also read in the media that several reasons are listed as to why there would be a delay, such as a staff shortage at the parquet. That may be a reason, if the file has remained at the courthouse, but it can't be a reason at all, should it remain with the investigating judge. There are some reasons and causes everywhere, but it is important that we know exactly what is going on. It also seems obvious to me that we do not just leave out food and food safety dossiers. Minister, why did the court wait a year and a half to conduct a search? Can you give a chronological overview, from the lodging of the complaint from Kosovo to today, of the legal and judicial actions taken in this file by the prosecutor and the investigating judge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u48	Mr President, Minister, something went wrong with the administration, which meant that this question was put too late, but I am very glad to be able to ask them. The situation has been outlined by colleagues. After Monday's debate in the Joint Committee on Health and Business, today's debate in this Committee on Justice is entirely justified. We have a number of questions about the meat fraud found in Kosovo in 2016. I understand that, through the European reporting system, a complaint has been lodged with the BFSA, an alarm signal from Kosovo about cheating with meat. An expert went on the scene and drew up a report. That report was then deposited with the Luxembourg public prosecutor. We know the story of that. A year and a half after the facts, a search was carried out. The question is what preceded it. What has been done from the Justice Department? What did the BFSA do? We had that discussion in the Joint Committee on Monday. Minister, I have a number of pertinent questions, which I hope you will be able to answer today. First, what criminal offences were identified by the BFSA and transferred to the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office, Neufchâteau? Secondly, was there then a search or a judicial investigation initiated? If so, when did this happen and what is the current state of the investigation? Thirdly, on the basis of Article 61ter or Article 21a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the BFSA requested access to the criminal file in order to ascertain whether or not public health was in danger? If so, when was such access granted? Fourthly, is there a letter from which, as soon as there is a threat to public health and food safety, the necessary reports are made to the BFSA with a view to taking the appropriate, urgent and protective measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, Mr Van Hecke, Mrs Lijnen, with regard to your questions about the number of irregularities reported to the court by the BFSA over the last three years and the number of judicial investigations, I have to inform you that the Public Prosecutor cannot provide figures in such a short period of time. However, I can inform you that most of the irregularities detected by the BFSA throughout the country and in all sectors are reported to the public prosecutors, but that the majority of them, approximately 80%, are rounded up by administrative sanctioning by the Commissioners for the administrative fines of the BFSA. This is part of the policy agreements. Of course, serious infringements are prosecuted in a criminal manner through investigations or judicial investigations. I shall return to the following questions. I would like to make it clear to you now that, in addition to its own sanctioning, the BFSA also has its own administrative means to put an immediate end to the operator who endangers public health. I am thinking, for example, of the suspension or withdrawal of the operating licence. At any time, the BFSA may itself make an unannounced visit to a company and enter it in application of Article 3 (2) of the Royal Decree of 22 February 2001. The private entrance obviously requires the permission of the police judge, but that is also what the BFSA can do. On the question of whether guaranteeing food safety is indeed a priority for the public prosecutors, I can tell you the following. In the public prosecutor's office there is an increased focus on the ever-increasing degree of specialisation to combat food fraud. That is why there is a single point of contact for these crimes in the public prosecutors, at a provincial level, so that the competences are concentrated at a reference magistraat. Last year, at the level of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the College of Attorneys General extended the powers of the Centre of Expertise in this matter to a Pharma and Food Crime Center with a more focused approach to drug and nutrition crime, and the potential benefits it brings. A broader framework has also been developed for the National Hormone Cell, led by the Justice Department by its reference magistraat, focusing on a more multidisciplinary approach to hormones, but also on doping, medicines and food safety. Both the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Police and the various inspection services in these matters join forces and expertise in that multidisciplinary cell. In this way, a comprehensive approach to different crimes and the protection of the population is possible. In cases where major investigations are to be carried out, such as searches, raids, access to computer files and tap measures, the prosecutor shall bring forward a judicial investigation to the investigating judge, who shall have, from then on, the management and responsibility for the investigation, to the exclusion of the public prosecutor, both with regard to the direction of, the assignments and instructions to, the investigators and investigators, be it the police, inspection services or the BFSA, the content of, the tactics and their timing. At the conclusion of that investigation, the investigating judge shall inform the prosecutor of the file, which shall then examine whether it is complete and, in the event of sufficient objections to the facts, prepare his final claim with a description of the facts, the qualifications, the suspects, the places and the timings, so that the court may refer the case to the court of correction, which shall, on the substance, judge the guilt and the penalties. In cases where no investigating judge is required, the court may bring the case directly before the judicial court. The prosecutors bring the cases before the courts on the basis of, inter alia, the following criteria: the seriousness of the facts, the intertwining with organised crime, the precedents and consistency with other facts. Importantly, several case-sharing regulations, such as in West Flanders and Antwerp, provide that specialised courts deal with these cases. A specialization has thus also been set up at the seat. I would like to stress that, when it has indications of a danger to public health following a criminal investigation, it always informs the competent authorities, such as the BFSA, if they have not yet been informed. In reply to the questions on the concrete content and progress of the investigation, I can give you the information I received from the Liège Public Prosecutor and the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor. First of all, as in other criminal cases, I must point out that the investigation is secret and that it is an investigation in the hands of an investigating judge. In the present case, an investigating judge was applied for and appointed by the Luxembourg court. I will convey the communications of the parquet general of Liège and the Luxembourg parquet as precisely as possible, by means of quotations after translation into Dutch................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ As regards the chronological overview requested by you, I quote the answers of the parquet general and of the parquet: "On 5 October 2016, the BFSA prepared an initial report on exports of 20 tonnes of meat from the company Veviba from Bastenaken to Kosovo on 19 September 2016. This meat was seized at the border crossing in Kosovo. A veterinary inspector from the BFSA went on the spot to check the truck. The investigation allowed to establish that the traceability of the exported meat had been falsified. Most of the labels identifying the origin of the meat were deducted. On the leftovers of the labels it was found that certain pieces of meat dates back to 2004. This meat was repacked in sealed boxes with an approval number of the NV Veviba. The remains of the labels also allowed to establish that part of the meat came from the slaughterhouses of Izegem and Harelbeke. 12 days later, on 17 October 2016, Luxembourg's parole board seized the investigating judge at the expense of the NV Veviba, the bvba Slachtingroep Leieland and the NV E.E.G. Abattoir Verbist Izegem as a result of falsehoods and the use of falsehoods, cheating, forgery of food and crime under the Regulation 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002. In this action for the initiation of a judicial investigation, the public prosecutor asked for a search of the registered office of the three companies listed in order to carry out any document useful for the traceability of the foodstuffs at issue and to try to identify the counterfeits in computer science which allowed these foodstuffs to be commercialised." The Luxembourg Public Prosecutor's Office reports the following in connection with the chronology: "A second report of the BFSA, prepared on 3 December 2016, arrived at my office on 10 March 2017".... 3 December 2016, arrived on 10 March 2017.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The report raised suspicions of forgery of traceability, internal to Veviba, with a view to introducing non-biomeat into the bio-filière. Biomeat which is remarkably more expensive would thus allow Veviba's profit margin to be increased." Your other question as to why the court waited a year and a half to conduct a search of the premises, the District Attorney informed me as follows: "The investigating judge conducts his investigation in complete independence without the public prosecutor's office being able to give him orders or directors. With regard to the programming by the investigating judge of the advanced actions of the prosecution and in particular to the period between the saisine of the investigating judge and the operation of the end of February 2018, it is appropriate to add the following elements: At the beginning there was no motive to assume that there was a high risk to public health and therefore for urgent action. Between the initiation of a judicial investigation on 17 October 2016 and the operation of the end of February 2018, no element has been introduced at the prosecutor's office to change this assessment. Again, the original claim of the public prosecutor concerned the counterfeiting of foodstuffs, as provided for in Article 500 et seq. of the Criminal Code. This crime is linked to a fraudulent act which is not harmful to health. If there had been a danger to health, the prosecution of the public prosecutor would have been based on the crimes contained in Articles 454 et seq. of the Criminal Code: he who mixes or mixes those substances that can cause death or seriously harm health. Secondly, the court has not only immediately requested a judicial investigation, but also specifically requested a search. Thirdly, it is important to point out that only a large-scale search has been allowed to know the crimes now known. The regular administrative checks such as the BFSA that does daily are not enough. It is surprising to note that justice is now being accused of exposing those other, worse crimes. The seriousness of the situation was only discovered afterwards thanks to the search. The other crimes identified in the search, which were not the subject of the original Saisine of the investigating judge, are attached to the judicial investigation on the basis of a new original report from the BFSA. It is therefore an extension of the saisine. Fourthly, it is also evident that such an operation, according to the Public Prosecutor General, "with thirty agents of the BFSA and twenty federal police investigators, still requires time for coordination, all the more so as confidentiality must be guaranteed, which is not easy given the number of persons involved in the operation. Fifth, the BFSA has a special expertise in assessing the risk to public health. At no time has the Agency considered it useful, it seems, on the basis of its own administrative powers, to carry out a thorough inspection in the installations at Bastenaken, although the Agency was at the beginning aware of the initiation of a judicial investigation, it has never again manifested itself at the investigating magistrate, this is the investigating judge, in order to assert that an intervention was urgent." The public prosecutor still says so. The Luxembourg prosecutor also reported: "I nevertheless regret that the investigating judge did not consider it necessary to involve the prosecutor in a coordination meeting which apparently took place on 7 December 2017, as he did not inform the public prosecutor of the requested search." The Luxembourg Attorney also reported the following in connection with a possible referral to the Chamber of Inclamation: "I add that the investigating judge was apprehended and was therefore in charge of the investigation. In the present case, we did not have sufficient serious and disturbing elements to take the room of incriminate. In fact, this is a delicate procedure for publishing." Mrs Lijnen, I was informed late of your question, but since you allegedly put it in time if I understood the President's body language correctly, I would nevertheless like to try to answer it. I have answered all the questions, except the third. The answer to the third question, in particular whether access to the criminal file has been requested by the BFSA pursuant to Article 21a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, is: we do not know. But that's what we know, because we haven't been able to consult with the public prosecutor anymore. However, in a strict sense the BFSA is not a party, but a researcher, and it should normally have knowledge of most elements of the criminal record. The Belgian State, you know, has set itself up as a bourgeois party, but that is another story. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for your patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Three elements remain unclear, not even after Monday's committee meeting, because the blame is being passed on. The BFSA claimed not to be allowed to act because the Justice Department was working on the case. However, I understand from your reply that the food agency can enter the company at any time. So the top guy at the food agency is lying when he says he wasn't allowed to do anything because the judicial investigation was ongoing, while he was allowed to enter the company for a checkup. So it's not true that the Justice Department forbade the company visit. Mr Minister, why didn't your cabinet respond to this flagrant lie by the top man of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain? He is dragging you into the bathtub by saying that justice would be partly responsible for the gross negligence of the food agency's failure to act. It is clear that a police report was drawn up twice by the public prosecutor. Still, the Agency didn't do anything. Minister, I understand if you do not want to answer my supplementary questions now. Can you confirm that the top man's claim, if he shouldn't do anything because the judicial investigation was ongoing, is not correct? Is it true that the top man was allowed to enter the company to control meat?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your enlightening answer. I had already indicated that there are two possibilities: either the court has advanced quickly, but the case has remained with the investigating judge for a long time, or the court has waited a long time to appoint an investigating judge. It is clear that the first situation has occurred. From the chronology that you mentioned, it becomes clear that the court has requested a court of law rather quickly and has asked to proceed with a search. My first conclusion is that the public prosecutor's office cannot at first be accused of much. The parquet did what it had to do. According to insinuations, this was due to the insufficient framework, although an existing problem, but not problematic in this case. What inspired the investigating judge to wait so long? We don't know that. It's a sitting judge. It's hard to interfere with him. He only knows the reasons he didn't make a quick search. That 30 people from the food agency and 20 people from the federal judicial police are necessary for that, well, but it will take another year and a half to put together a team, I cannot understand that, all the more so since there was a second saisine and an extension of the saisine in April with new facts. Then the dossier, which was perhaps at the bottom of a pile, should have come up again and it should have been seen that it was urgent to take action. Wherever the delay is and whatever the causes are, it is certainly not acceptable, even if at the beginning there was no indication of possible public health problems. If such files on eating food, around food from 2004 that is still on the market, are not a priority, then I wonder what is a priority. I know that expertise is being developed, both at the parquet and at the seat. We really need to continue with this, but it seems that this is also not enough to bring up these urgent dossiers. Where is the time when we were all very enthusiastic about the work of a investigating judge in Neufchâteau? However, I note, Minister, that the food agency itself also had means of action, such as the suspension or closure of the company. That seems essential to me, but it is not your responsibility. Even if Justice progresses slowly, there are opportunities for the Food Agency to act administratively. However, that is not your responsibility. I see a shared responsibility, namely the slowness of justice in the judicial investigation and the investigating judge, on the one hand, and the non-action of the food agency on the basis of its own powers, which are clearly established by law, on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u52	Minister, your answer gives us a slightly better view of what has happened, although there are also new elements that make it very complicated again. You say very clearly that an additional investigation has been requested, the second saisine. However, that document was on its way for three months, from 3 December 2016 to 10 March 2017. You confirmed today that the parquet really moved quickly to the demand for more research and that the parquet had already asked for house searches in 2016. However, we have waited a year and a half and we can ask questions. At the same time, we may wonder why it should take three months before a file of the parquet and the BFSA arrives in the right place in order to carry out additional research. The question is what happened in those three months. I think that's punishment. You also said that there was no motive to show that public health was in danger. I think that is also punishment, especially as it was about meat that apparently had been frozen since 2004. Between 2004 and 2016, there is a period of 12 years. In fact, I can assume that there is no added substance here that immediately causes people to die, but we must not overlook the fact that it is at least necessary for public health to make an additional assessment in this area. It seems to me that the absence of this is an error of assessment. As I said on Monday in the committee, I wonder what the BFSA has done in the interim period. I understand very well if you say that a suspension of business activities could have been imposed or unannounced controls could have been carried out. Apparently that's contained in the royal decree. The BFSA effectively has the possibility to carry out additional checks in the event of non-compliance. However, that was not done. In short, I believe that there are many elements, including in the area of justice, which need to be examined more closely. We absolutely need to learn a number of lessons from this crisis in order to deal differently in the future with the assessment of the danger to public health, the slowness or the speed of a given process. I believe that a general approach is essential and necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-14-54-commissie-ic845x.u53	May I say two more words, Mr President? First of all, I would like to ask the questioners not to distract too much from the time span between December 2016 and March 2017. All the staff involved had to work at a high speed. Those dates are indeed in the pieces we received last night, but I do not rule out the possibility that there has been a mistake somewhere. So I wouldn't like you to make immediate heavy inferences. Secondly, Mrs Lambrecht, I do not intend to pour oil on the fire. That is why I have quoted so emphatically. Of course, the BFSA itself still has to produce its report. I would just like to reread what the public prosecutor said in reply to your question, because I would not like to see those words attributed to the Minister of Justice. I'm not really a party to this either. My parole board is independent, and the investigating judge is above parole. What does the District Attorney say? "At no time has the Agency considered it useful, it seems, on the basis of its own administrative powers, to carry out a thorough inspection in the installations at Bastenaken, although at the outset the Agency was aware of the initiation of a judicial investigation, it has never again manifested itself before the investigating court to assert that an intervention was urgent." Those are the words of the public prosecutor. I do not want to question it, I just do not want to be made party to the dispute and it is claimed that the Minister of Justice has said so. I suppose that's true, but it also says "it seems so" in that sentence, and we still need to get the report from the BFSA. So I would not like this to be a battle. That would be premature, and that would not help. So I just want to say that they are the words of the public prosecutor. The attorney himself said "it seems that way."
