ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, television viewing Flanders has been under the spell of the question of who the mole is for some time now. This is a program that many Flemings follow. That question has already been answered for your government, ladies and gentlemen. The mole in this federal government is called the N-VA, called Johan Van Overtveldt one day and Bart De Wever the other day. The television programme De Mol runs for a few weeks and then it stops. That's for sure. However, more and more the question arises, Mr Verherstraeten, about Charles Michel's programme. Does that affect his last few weeks? There are even rumors about early elections. More and more the question arises as to whether anything will work in this country. Those rumors come from somewhere, Prime Minister. They are mainly concerned with the statements of the great absentee leader, the mayor of Antwerp. Friday he said in Ter Zake "Rien ne va plus, there is no more dash in this government." If it's up to Bart De Wever, colleagues, the appointment of Cédric Frère is the last feat of this federal government. As far as we are concerned, Mr De Roover, it should not be. There are still many possibilities, Prime Minister. So feel free to consider this question as an encouragement, a push in the back, because I would like to mention three dossiers in which you should not give in to the mole in your federal government. Three files for which you can even work with the opposition. Three reforms that absolutely must be carried out, even if they are municipal elections and there are vice-premiers, Mr Peeters, with mayor ambitions. What are those three files? First of all, we are talking about the Energy Pact. Our nuclear power stations are dead. The problems are well known. It's time to work on solutions. It's a file where the N-VA is the mole. A second dossier is the national investment plan. Do you remember your announcement, Prime Minister? I know that Flemish nationalists do not like cooperation federalism and a national investment plan. That is a second file in which they are the mole, but in which we want to be an ally. A third issue is the budget, the great promise, the great challenge, in which you have absolutely failed, because we have a finance minister who leaves the tax loopholes open and who is far too friendly for the greatest capabilities. That is a third dossier in which you cannot give in to the sabotage of the N-VA, in which you must not let the mole in the federal government: the budget and, above all, a breakthrough on fair taxation. I want to hear you very clearly today, Prime Minister. Until Antwerp, we need to hear it: the government has to work, our country does not need campagers and extra campaign, but policy. Speak clearly about that. It is time to make that very clear in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calvo is opposed to the option of early elections, and so are we, so we are in agreement on this point. Let us be clear: with the political will that the government can present at the moment in the socio-economic field, it would be foolish to consult the electorate in the last straight line. At a time when the economic situation is attracting everywhere, when unemployment is falling, when we have completely eliminated our labour cost handicap, when our companies are once again competitive, when citizens are getting more and more extra pay, when purchasing power is increasing, when 180 000 jobs have been created in our country, who would like to end the legislative term early with such a palmares? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are still a number of yards, which are of course very important. Prime Minister, I would like to confront you today with the following. The job vacancy figures in our country are at unprecedented heights. That is the challenge for the coming months and years, because the level of activity in our country remains too low. When I look at the European figures, I am concerned about the budget figures, which we must be able to eliminate by 0.7%, but I am even more concerned about the fact that we only have an average of 69 % activity rates, compared with, for example, 79 percent in the Netherlands. That is what we must take as a priority. Let me give you one example. In my city, a contractor has finished working and, in order to end those works in good time, about 30 Portuguese fellow citizens have flown in to come down the street. That is the reality of Europe. However, I live 5 kilometres from the district of Liège and if I look at the unemployment figures there, one may wonder why they are Portuguese workers and not Flemish, Walloon and Belgian workers. In an analysis today, VKW Limburg makes the right finding that companies want to invest but do not because if they grow, they will not be able to fill the additional vacancies. That is what we must do. And I'll give you a good reason. If we can increase the level of activity, we should not, as some parties suggest, be hacking into social security, but then the budgetary problem has been solved. If we had the figures for the Netherlands or Germany, we would no longer have a deficit in the budget but a surplus. That is the path we must take, Prime Minister. In the last few months, together with the other governments in this country, let us take action, because activation is obviously also a responsibility of the regions to work on this activity rate, that level of activity and ensure that it increases, because then we will be able to continue to deliver fantastic economic results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are indeed some important, crucial challenges ahead of us, but we are very ambitious and we will remain ambitious. Over the last few months, we have achieved more and more positive results. I am thinking of job creation and increasing the purchasing power of the people who work or want to work. For example, we have also taken important decisions in the Council of Ministers on an investment strategy or the Energy Pact. Those are clear choices we have made. The clean-up, relance and job creation are the best keys for the future, for sustainable clean-up and for the financing of social security. That's still our mantra. That's still our DNA. I fully agree with Patrick Dewael's remark. In the Council of Ministers, and I address myself to Minister Peeters in particular, we know how crucial decisions will be in the coming weeks and months. Additional choices need to be made in order to provide a correct answer to important questions. The number of vacancies in Belgium has doubled over three years. This is proof that our economy is running, but it is still a challenge, because we know that the lack of a correct solution can hold back our growth in the future. Mr Calvo, you try every time in plenary to make a small political analysis, but yesterday you were absent from the committee for a substantive and substantive debate on the future of our economy, our social model and the choices we have to make. We're responsible. We will work hard, in consultation with the social partners and the Länder, to achieve further results in this area. Every day until the end of this legislature must and will be useful to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u5	Prime Minister, you speak of those who analyse and those who do, but if you should tell someone to stop analysing and be a commentator, then it is not against the opposition, but against the invisible man in the back row who comments all the time, analyzes and says to you: "It's out. We will do nothing more." The N-VA has decided to cripple the country. Ladies and gentlemen, if Mr De Wever was to be present on one Thursday, then today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u6	Today's Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u7	Yeah, that's right. Mr De Roover, I am used to the parliamentary calendar and that is why I spoke about the plenary on Thursday. That is different for your chairman, because even if it was Thursday, he would not be here. Nevertheless, I would have liked to have seen him present. After all, last Friday it was embarrassing. Colleagues, did you see that? Some laughs were made and Mrs Almaci was accused of speaking too loudly about the appointment of Mr Frère. Mr De Roover, we will continue to charge that, do not worry about it. It was embarrassing Friday: a studio full of broken promises. The power of change? I should like to come to the point that Mr Dewael has just spoken about. Mr Dewael, you say that the government must, above all, continue to work with such a palmares. However, you must continue to work with this government because it is so poor! What is the budgetary figure? In terms of job creation, you point to the number of jobs created. With regard to job creation, economics and growth, our country is among the worst pupils in the European class. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u8	Mr Calvo, you have to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Calvo conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u9	That's been the method of N-VA lately. It's getting nasty. N-VA is confronted with its election promises and then the N-VA members start laughing away. Then you say it's time for another topic. However, we will continue to press charges. Mr Prime Minister, you have expressed it somewhat cautiously, but we have spoken more about it: our country still needs a lot of reforms. There are still a lot of steps to be taken. N-VA is increasingly less an ally to this end. From the opposition, we will continue to table proposals, you can count on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u10	Mr Calvo, to be honest, I have already heard better speeches from you. You say that our results are bad at the moment. You might as well say it's been raining all the time over the last few days. The results are ahead. These results do not require an approach from politicians. You always try to put salt on as many snails as you can, but look at the bottom of the matter. Our government is a reform government. Don't get nervous, colleague Calvo. This is a reform government. In recent years, there has been one constant reaction, Mr Calvo, to all these reforms. At every demonstration, first he walked in the back, later he tried to walk in front. He has simply wanted to touch on the social resistance, and now that he sees that this government's reform policy is achieving results, he is in a tight spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u12	Mr Calvo, the day you will tell me what to say here, I will not go through. I heard Mr Leemans today on the eve of Rerum Novarum. Mr Calvo and Mr Leemans, it is not with more taxes that problems will be solved. People will be persuaded to work by rewarding them, by giving them wages to work, so more net wages. After the tax shift, we want to move on. We are in favour of a flat tax in the long term, because in this country, which is still the most heavily taxed country in the world, more taxes are not on the agenda. That is your only recipe, Mr Calvo. More taxes, more taxes for the hardworking middle class, because that's not what you're saying. Mr Calvo, that will always be without us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I was very surprised to hear a Senator MR welcoming the fact that US President Donald Trump is honouring his campaign promises: the exit of the Paris climate agreement, the relocation of the embassy to Jerusalem or the exit of the Iranian nuclear agreement. I wonder, Prime Minister, what we can rejoice at in all of this. This unilateral, dangerous and unacceptable decision can have important consequences: an imbalance in the region, a flaming of the region, which certainly does not need it in the current circumstances. It can also, of course, give wages to all the extremes that face each other on the spot. It is also a decision that threatens peace, whether regional or international. It is enough to see Netanyahu's reaction in this direction. Prime Minister, what is the position of Belgian diplomacy in this context and what follow-up will be given to it? What initiatives are being taken today, whether at EU or Iran level? Finally, here we have a President who unilaterally emerges from a multilateral agreement. Prime Minister, what sanctions are provided for in this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a little early, but I fear that the damage caused by President Trump's latest decision is immense. With our group, we are afraid that we will be a few steps closer to detonating the powder keg of the Middle East. That is the first observation. My second observation is that the decision is an incredible blow to the transatlantic alliance. In recent weeks, three leading European leaders have gone to Washington fruitless. I think they felt humiliated yesterday. With care, President Trump has put aside the European aspirations to choose the course of confrontation between Israel and Saudi Arabia in the Middle East. Thirdly, if Iran also withdraws from the agreement, I am afraid that we are at the start of a nuclear arms race in the Middle East, as if that region does not already have enough problems. Fourth observation, yesterday the hardliners in Tehran danced on the street. Those are the only ones besides Tel Aviv who are satisfied with the President's decision. Prime Minister, it doesn't happen often, but I agree with what I heard on the radio this morning: yes, we Europeans must do everything we can to keep the agreement going. Maintaining it means, on the one hand, that Iran must respect its obligation not to develop nuclear weapons, and, on the other hand, that we must also respect our commitment to Iran's economic development. You said that this morning. Again, I agree with you for 200 percent. I have a question for you, Prime Minister. How will you prevent the extraterritorial sanctions announced by the United States from killing Iran's economic development, with the result that the hardliners in Tehran come to power and the confrontation between Iran, Israel and Saudi Arabia with the support of the United States? Prime Minister, you're going to Sofia. You have one more scoop on top of it: 300 % of our support to encourage all European leaders to respond together to the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u15	Prime Minister, the US administration, Mr Trump and US imperialism want to remake us in 2003 by preparing a military and political intervention in the region, particularly against Iran. It's more than worrying. This type of operation is being prepared first of all through diplomatic and political initiatives such as trying to prove that Iran would not comply with its agreement. In 2003, we had Colin Powell, remember, with his small bottle, telling us that Saddam Hussein possessed biological weapons of destruction. Now we've got Mr. Netanyahu with all his CD-ROMs – they're not flash drives visible for Israeli secret services – and we're trying once again to make it look like the target country is not respecting its agreements. The international forums of which the International Energy Agency is very clear. Iran respects the agreement reached. Prime Minister, we are in a very dangerous situation where an important power like the United States of America is withdrawing and is going to aggravate sanctions, playing completely, moreover, the map of Israel, whose international hypocrisy I still recall. Iran is pointing its finger at Iran because Iran, hypothetically, would try to have nuclear weapons while Israel, quite illegally, possesses nuclear weapons. But there is no problem, no sanction or embargo, nothing at all! We can hold the nuclear weapon in Israel, but we can't have it in Iran! Prime Minister, I heard and I was pleased that you did not share this American option. It's not words, it's deeds. Mr Prime Minister, the question then is what you will do to keep the agreement going. I have very specific questions. What will you do to ensure that sanctions against Belgian companies remain without implications? What will you do to Israel, which is already violating agreements and bombing in Syria today? Thirdly, would it not be time for this strategic partnership between Europe and Belgium, on the one hand, and the United States, on the other? We can no longer endorse this international policy of the United States of America, which will lead us, ladies and gentlemen, to a widespread war in the region. It is therefore a danger not only for the latter, but also for humanity as a whole. Prime Minister, I ask you to take a clear step by putting an end to this strategic partnership with the United States of America.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u16	Mr. Chairman, Prime Minister, for the MR Group in the House, the time is serious and the issue is important. As my colleagues have pointed out, President Trump has decided to withdraw the United States from the agreement on the cessation of Iran's military nuclear programme and has signed, in the wake of that agreement, a protocol to put in place the US sanctions that were previously suspended. Not only do we regret this unilateral decision, but, like our colleagues, we cannot help expressing real fears about the significant negative consequences in terms of regional stability, in terms of the fight against nuclear proliferation, against this nuclear arms race, but also in terms of the economy. Prime Minister, as some have alluded to, there are many reports on the famous decisive evidence that would demonstrate the continuation of Iran's nuclear programme. First, what do we know about these so-called decisive evidence? What credibility can be given to them? Is there a case, mutatis mutandis, of the weapons of mass destruction of the Bush era? Secondly, is the agreement still viable without the United States? It seems that this is the position that Europeans want to defend. Thirdly, how do you estimate the diplomatic opportunities that aim to strengthen the agreement by 2025 and beyond? Meetings have already taken place on this subject. In this context, have there been any positive openings by Iran on regional issues, namely those of Syria, Iraq and Yemen? Finally, how can we guarantee and secure the legitimate economic and financial interests of Belgium and Europe, but also – this aspect is very important and has been stressed – Iran's ability to pursue its economic development, in the face of this unilateral decision by Mr Trump?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u17	Prime Minister, when the nuclear agreement with Iran was concluded on 15 July 2015, everyone agreed that it was a historic agreement. It may not have been perfect, but it put a serious brake on Tehran's nuclear program and made the world a lot safer. That President Trump announced yesterday that the United States will withdraw from that agreement is irresponsible and dangerous. It is irresponsible because President Trump's foreign policy is clearly determined by his domestic political strategy. That's why he's playing with international security. International security is also our security. It is also dangerous, because no one knows what Iran's reaction will be. So far it has always complied with all the conditions laid down in the agreement, but we do not know whether that will continue to be the case. We can only hope so. For Iran, the main driving force behind the nuclear agreement was the lifting of economic sanctions. So the new sanctions from the United States can certainly change Iran's mind. In the interests of collective security, therefore, we must do everything we can to keep Iran in that agreement. I am convinced that Europe can play a very important role in this. It is high time that Europe took the lead in this agreement. We have a chance now. If we want that nuclear agreement to survive, the European Union will have to try to compensate for the United States' economic sanctions. Prime Minister, I have three questions. Firstly, what will be the position that you will be taking at the Sofia European Summit next week? Secondly, are you, like me, convinced that we must try to compensate for the United States' economic sanctions with the European Union? Thirdly, do you have any idea whether our Belgian companies will be affected by the American sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, it is indeed a dark day for stability and peace in the world. It is also a dark day for our relations with the United States, which is an ally. It is also a dark day for the credibility of the American word. This is the third time, in the end, that the United States has called into question its words. There was the climate agreement. There are these threats and blackmail that weigh on our trade relations and there is this unilateral withdrawal from the agreement with Iran. Of course, this agreement is not perfect. We know that, but he's giving us time. It is trying to tie Iran to the international community, including economic ties, so that it is a less threatening power and working more closely with the rest of the world. I am pleased, with my colleagues, that you wanted to say quickly that you are holding to this agreement, that this agreement is important and that we must try to broaden it, in any case to improve it and consolidate it. Prime Minister, how do you see the future of this agreement. Is it still viable? Can we still keep it? What is the state of relations with the other powers, China and Russia, in relation to this agreement? What contacts do we have with Iran in this context? As other colleagues have pointed out, there is this threat from the United States. It's more than a threat. These are sanctions against European companies. For the United States, it's easy. Almost no company is active in Iran, unlike Saudi Arabia. European companies are active in Iran. How are we going to preserve these economic ties and development? Finally, how to prevent once again the warriors from taking it to the United States in the face of the peacemakers. There's more left. There's some in the United States. How can we bring to bear the power of Europe, which advocates the construction of peace and which must be able to develop in a much more autonomous and strategic way, on security issues and issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u19	Prime Minister, yesterday it was not unexpected but unpleasant news, when we heard that President Trump unilaterally pulled the plug on Iran's nuclear deal. That decision has several negative consequences. It is now particularly looking forward to the response of the Iranian Government. If Iran chooses to withdraw from the deal, then, of course, a conflict in the Middle East is very close. The region will then become unstable. Colleagues, because an unstable Middle East also has negative consequences for us in Europe, it is important that the European Union should show leadership and take an initiative to keep Iran in that nuclear deal. We cannot do that alone; we will have to work with China and Russia for that. If the US chooses to impose sanctions on companies trading with Iran, it will also have an impact on European and Belgian companies. That would put a mortgage on the attracting trade with that country. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last three years, our exports to that country have increased by 20% each time. More generally, I believe that we should see this umpteenth decision as a wake-up call so that we no longer go blindly after the United States on the world stage. Apparently, an American signature is only valid until a next president is elected. That means two things. Firstly, Europe must pursue a stronger foreign policy and enter into partnerships with several large countries. Secondly, we must close the growing gap between the United States and Europe, so that there is no schism. We need to look for themes around which we can still work well together. Prime Minister, I have two questions. Can the European Union still save the Iran deal? Are China and Russia willing to help us? Secondly, how do you estimate the impact of possible US sanctions on our trade with Iran?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as many of you have mentioned, in our history the United States has very often been a strong partner, because the United States is a democracy. This country shares with us the values of democracy, the rule of law and freedom. Today we are still a partner, an ally of this country on many issues, such as economic and commercial development and the fight against terrorism. We are also partners in NATO. However, it is true that in recent months we have seen, on several occasions, a divergence of views on substantial subjects. The Paris agreements were an opportunity to see a difference of conviction. We, together with all the European countries, have assumed our responsibilities, ensuring that these Paris agreements are confirmed, despite the American choice. The fact has gone too unnoticed in my view, but more recently, decisions have been taken to punish certain countries in the commercial sphere. The word was used and I take it back: it was a form of blackmail, revolver on the temple. Indeed, a few more weeks, running until the end of the month, are allowed to negotiate revisions of trade agreements with the United States. A few hours ago, last night, a decision that had been in the air for some time fell. We were among the first to react clearly and firmly at European level. Our reaction and position on the other side is next. Firstly, we regret this unilateral decision. The nuclear agreement is the fruit of a very long negotiation. Twelve years ago, we started these multilateral negotiations. We do believe that this agreement opens a channel for political and diplomatic dialogue with Iran. It is an opportunity, an opportunity, to achieve results in the future, for more peace, more stability and more security in that region. I confirm the information that, on several occasions, including in recent months, the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency has found, in the course of the inspections, that Iran is in compliance with its share of the agreements that have been concluded. What analysis do I make with you of the situation in the region? There is great instability and insecurity. Many conflicts and deep divisions in the Middle East and the Middle East have repercussions all over the world, including in Europe. Two actors have a regional ambition: Saudi Arabia and Iran. Both countries are pursuing a strategy of interference and interference in some countries in the region. They are at the root of instability. The conflict in Yemen is one of the translations of this state of affairs; it generates a very serious humanitarian crisis in which the people are the victims. We Europeans must, on the basis of our values of peace, stability and the link between economic development, peace and stability, try to encourage dialogue without naivety. We are not the lawyers of a country, a regime or a government. We are the advocates of peace, stability and security, in a logic of mutual interests. That is the reasoning behind our action. Allow me to answer some questions in more concrete terms. Firstly, it is true that we are in constant contact with our European colleagues. I also think that we should maintain active contact with other countries in the world, such as China and Russia. It is not by chance that I visited Russia a few weeks ago, and it proves that I think we should also have a dialogue with Russia. Secondly, we will also try to continue our campaign for a seat in the UN Security Council. If we can be members of the Security Council in the short term, this means that we will be able to play an important and positive role. This reinforces our ambition to participate in this active campaign to occupy a seat on the United Nations Security Council and to uphold the values we uphold. Finally, I would like to comment on economic relations. In my view, we must do everything we can to save and confirm the existing agreement, to maintain inspections and to end the proliferation of nuclear weapons. We must be mobilized on this issue with all our partners. We must also consider that the development of economic relations is a factor that can contribute to peace and stability. Whenever economic exchanges are strengthened, the chances of political stability and social stability are enhanced. That is therefore an extremely important point. We must therefore see how we can protect our European and Belgian economic interests on the subject. I was talking about the consolidation of the agreement. This can be in the form of enlargement. For example, we could look into ballistic programmes if additional commitments are not to be made for greater security. It may also be to look at how we are going to organize our economic and trade relations with Iran tomorrow. Finally, as you know, we are, together with Brussels, the capital of the European Union. I do not rule out proposing, in the next few days, that meetings at the highest political level be held between European leaders and the Iranian authorities to maintain this dialogue, to maintain this consultation and to see how, despite the tumult and instability caused by this decision, we could, as far as possible, be actors for peace, stability and security in the interests of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for these points of answer. Faced with this unilateral decision which causes instability in the region and uncertainty in the world too, it is obvious that the European Union cannot stay on the balcony. It is important that the European Union wakes up, and I am pleased to hear that you intend to defend this point of view at any rate: to ensure that the European Union takes the diplomatic lead on this issue. We must absolutely avoid burning if we are to ensure security and peace in this region, but also in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer. Rather unusual, I've applauded. I have noted that four opposition parties and three majority parties have taken the floor, with different wordings. It went from regretting President Trump's decision to condemn it. And I didn't hear the majority party today. Prime Minister, I have some work for you. I suggest that you talk to Secretary of State Francken, because on Twitter he said today about President Trump's decision: 'It is very double, very politically daring, but not unreasonable'. Not unreasonable, Prime Minister. That is the only dissonant voice we have heard today from a member of your government, Secretary of State Francken. Prime Minister, you are going to Sofia with the opposition's support. We ask you to ask for a united position from European leaders. Before you leave, you may have to put your own house in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u23	Prime Minister, as much as we could join in global rhetoric, I am quite surprised at your concrete proposals. You state that you may wish to expand the agreement to include ballistics components. But indirectly, Prime Minister, you are reopening the terms of the agreement. Put yourself in the place of Iran! There is a clear agreement on nuclear power. International agreements are very important. If we don't respect them anymore, everything's going to go in every direction. Here, it's very clear. There are agreements. Why expand them? This is my first question, Prime Minister. We like to go to Europe to play the world's gendarmes with the Americans! It never worked! Let's go back to the United States of America. You are right to talk about the sub-regional powers in this area, namely Iran and Saudi Arabia. But the first power that is responsible for the chaos on the spot, not for two or three years, but for decades, it is the United States of America. The United States of America is clearly the first power involved in the region. They completely razed Iraq in 2003. Chaos in the region clearly originates from American interventions. Today, you tell us that this country remains a strategic partner and that we remain within the NATO framework. Prime Minister, with regard to this strategic partnership with American imperialism, the first power that has military bases in the world - one in two countries - I think it is time today to break this kind of strategic agreement and to have a clean policy that allows peace in the world!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u24	Prime Minister, thank you for your very clear and comprehensive answer. I think we cannot fall into the middle of what we have just heard, namely, to make a kind of decision just as unilateral as the one taken on the other side of the Atlantic. We must be able - indeed, Prime Minister - not to always align ourselves with the American position. You're doing it with the answer you've just given. You are also doing so by saying how important it is for the European Union to succeed in maintaining this agreement and doing what needs to be done for it. I'll also remind you that history has its truths, don't I, Mr. Cheron? Belgium did not always run where the Americans wanted to send it. In 2003, I think, a government, including the Verhofstadt government, because it had no evidence of weapons of mass destruction, refused that. Our group is asking for a reasonable, rational position in examining what is happening. This is an important moment for the region, and for the European Union as well. The European Union carries a project that is made of economic prosperity, a peace project that wants to defend human rights, but also environmental rights. And what happened when the United States came out of the Paris Agreement was just as unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You have taken a very clear position. What is positive about this agreement is that it was not an agreement between Iran and the United States but an agreement with several partners. It is not because the United States is stepping out that we must throw everything overboard. This does not mean the end of the agreement. We still have a lot of tools in our hands today to save this agreement. I would like to raise a small point of interest. As you know, sanctions have been imposed not only against Iran but also against all companies trading with Iran. I think it is important that we try to minimise the impact of US sanctions on Belgian and European companies that have links with Iran. What is clear, ladies and gentlemen, is that we must now send a united signal with the European Union, that we must show leadership, including in the dialogue with China and Russia, and with Iran. This will require unanimity. That's not easy. But we must be aware that if we want peace in the region, if we want peace in the world, we need to keep Iran within the nuclear agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u26	Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your response and your strategic proposals to try to strengthen this agreement and move forward. It is indeed a day of anxiety, sadness and bitterness with regard to this relationship that we have had with the United States. They have contributed to peace, especially in Europe. But we need to get used to this country walking on its head during the Trump presidency. And we need to get used to the idea that what is today a source of concern becomes decisively and firmly a source of opportunity for us. It is more than ever the time of Europe. This is now more than ever the time for a European project that is consistent, credible and strong in terms of security issues. Prime Minister, do not spare your time for this project. It is essential, it is vital for peace in Europe, for peace in the world. It is vital that you are not distracted, especially by tweets from the one who seems to be the second foreign minister in your government, who considers this agreement to be non-unreasonable. You must move forward, be substantial on these issues because we are waiting for Europe on these issues, and we are waiting for our country, which has a particular history, to try to consolidate peace in the Middle East. You are right, Iran is not alone, there is also Saudi Arabia, and I would add Turkey and Russia, which also play a role of destabilization. We have a role to play that could be much stronger in this context and much more decisive. I am counting on you to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your clear explanation, your proposal and your reaction in the media this morning. It is important that we do not let Iran slip back into their former isolation and their aggressive nuclear weapons program. This is to the advantage of the region, to keep it stable, but also to our advantage. Prime Minister, you are going to the European Summit next week. You said that you would pull the cart there and put the problem on the table. You yourself visited Putin in Russia and Macron and Merkel went to Washington. They didn't get any results there. Perhaps you should go to Washington with a mandate from Europe to build bridges. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u28	Deputy Prime Minister, after Lidl, Makro, Blokker and Carrefour, it is today Mestdagh's turn. The group wants to get rid of 20% of its workers, more than 450 of them. Let us not forget also the 2,200 workers whose status of tomorrow is unknown. The distribution sector is changing, as we know. It may need to be modernized, but changes cannot be made on the back of workers. These cannot be an accounting variable of the company. This is once again the case. Minister, you should stop your speeches and actions that support this fact. No, workers are not too expensive; no, they are not too protected; no, they must not be content with flexi-jobs and other precarious jobs. Your measures are fuelling the burning of redundancies and questioning the worker's status. Minister, without workers, there is nothing! No wealth is produced. Workers must also take advantage of the wealth they produce. This sector needs to be modernised, but with respect for workers, by maintaining quality jobs. It is time to act to protect workers, to stem these dismissals, to stop pressuring workers. We must not be content with the minimum in the face of repeated collective redundancies. Mr Minister, let us work with Parliament, with the social partners, to organise hearings to understand the changes in the distribution sector and to ensure that they are no longer done on the back of workers. My questions are simple: are you finally going to accede to this request? Are you ready to work with us and the social partners on legislation proposing alternatives to dismissals? We have tabled several of them, notably on the right of information and alert, and on the packaging of collective redundancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Daerden, it is very clear and I agree with you that we need to discuss with the social partners in order to improve and negotiate the situations provided for by the Renault Act and other laws with the help of which we can improve the situation. To be very concrete about the situation at Mestdagh, you know very well that an extraordinary business council was held there this Monday. Management indicated its intention to proceed with collective redundancies. This announcement in the meantime has also been communicated to my services. 450 unfortunately threatened jobs are mentioned. This is obviously a social tragedy! I am very familiar with the situation in the distribution sector. I have already held meetings with CEOs of large distribution companies. I am convinced that, in the Mestdagh case, the announcement of this collective dismissal marks the beginning of the first phase of the Renault law. This means, in particular, that it is now up to the social dialogue to play its role and that it is up to the social partners to study possible alternatives to dismissals. Mr Daerden, the Prime Minister's office has already had an initial contact with the Mestdagh leadership, while we have been in contact with the unions. Together, we follow this file closely. I also agree to discuss with the Regions, and in particular with the Walloon Region, when it takes initiatives on this issue. In conclusion, I asked the social partners to amend the Renault law. I am ready to discuss with Parliament with a view to reaching a consensus on the Renault law. I also agree to follow, in addition to the Mestdagh file, other issues in the distribution sector in order to find solutions in this sector and also for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u30	Minister, I hear your answer and it is a speech of impotence. Yes, the sector is in crisis, a crisis paid by the workers. You do not provide any answers to this situation and no guarantees for the future. I cannot accept this fatalism of your government in the face of these job losses, this deterioration - somewhere caused by your policy - of working conditions. It's really time to react. There is a need for a joint action of majority, opposition and social partners. We must anticipate other social tragedies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u31	Mr President, Minister, the Brussels North Station has become a free port for what is now referred to in the politically correct newspeak migrants; ordinary people talk about illegal immigrants. As a result, the North Station and its adjacent parks and squares have become a kind of multicultural garbage dump. It smells like urine and excrement, there is a threatening atmosphere, portless men walk around without any purpose, one sleeps there on the street, in the parks and in the corridors and toilets of the North Station. We all owe this to your government's velvet glove policy, which does argue with local authorities and police forces, but does not act. Today, an agreement has finally been concluded with Mayor Clerfayt van Schaarbeek. About an hour and a half ago, I went to the North Station to see what's happening. I saw about fifteen federal agents running around there, as some kind of wake-up call, and social assistant to the illegals involved, who kindly, not even boldly, enjoined them to possibly leave the North Station if they had a desire. You can view the images on my Twitter and Facebook account. After a lot of drags, the illegals leave to finally lie on their sleeping bags in the sun in the Maximilian park. Tonight they may return. There were no identity checks, I didn't find any. Nor were there any arrests. Mayor Clerfayt says this is normal, as the Foreign Office can eventually only accommodate twenty-five people in the centers a day. The rest, about two thirds, are ordered to leave the territory, but simply return to the North Station, with all possible consequences. Mr Minister, action is needed. There must be literally and figuratively a large chaste in and around the North Station. The North Station must not be a free port, nor an alternative open asylum centre for illegal immigrants. The many tens of thousands of travellers who have to pass there every day and who do not, like many politicians in our Half-Round, have a service car with a driver, have not earned that. You have to perform. You need to identify. You're going to have to arrest him. They have to leave the country. There is no other solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u32	Mr President, Minister, there are hundreds of transmigrants in the North Station. According to some sources, it's even 600. It just keeps going on and on. How does Emmanuel Macron, the great hero of many members here in the Halfround solve that? "We can't take the misery of the world." That's what Macron explains. In the Assemblée national, he has a new law, which allows him to follow a route. Let me explain this and compare it with Belgium. In stage 1 of the route there are coordinated police actions in France. After more than two years, Belgium has not yet managed to coordinate the federal and local police. In stage 2, there is an administrative procedure through return centres in France. At stage 2 in Belgium, the transmigrant receives a paper from the DVZ, which states that he or she must leave the territory. He or she will be released. Within a short time, two thirds are again at the North Station. Transmigrenders can also apply for asylum. If they do so in France, they will be granted 32% of the cases. In Belgium, this is in 64% of cases. So that's exactly the double. In stage 3, illegal residence on French territory is punishable. There's a three-year sentence. In Belgium, such a stay is also punishable. There is a sentence of eight days, but probably no one has ever been convicted of that. After all, the illegal residence is not being prosecuted. It's just a phantom crime. Whoever drives off his lawn on Sunday gets a gas ticket. For those who stay illegally on the territory, there is no problem. In stage 4 in France there is the repatriation. In stage 4 in Belgium, 80% of the expulsion orders are not executed. Minister, coordinated police actions are a good thing, but they are not everything. There's got to be a trajectory on it. The police union now states that some transmigrants are arrested up to nine times. With your police action in West Flanders in 2016, of the people who were arrested, less than 2 % were eventually repatriated. My question to you is this. What will you do? Will you set a path like Macron or will you just mop up with the tap open?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u33	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, Mr Vuye, we are of course familiar with the facts you are presenting about the North Station. On Monday I was able to conclude an agreement with the two local police areas of Brussels-North and Brussels-Capital, with the DVZ, the judicial police, the federal police and the railway police to arrive at an integrated approach and return the North Station to passengers. This agreement sets out four objectives. Firstly, to increase safety and subjective security, to restore public order and to improve hygiene in the station, to increase the northern communications centre which is wider than the North Station and its immediate surroundings. Secondly, to discourage as much as possible all forms of nuisance. Thirdly, to intensify the concerted actions. Fourthly, to keep up the discouragement and thus improve the imagery. The police have been sitting together to translate that political agreement into a concrete action plan. The DVZ was also involved in this action plan. The necessary capacity and resources have been released. The federal police reserve will be deployed. These actions will take place on the ground in the next few days, weeks if necessary. We will evaluate and correct this on a regular basis, if necessary. In all this, we have an objective objective in mind, namely giving the station back to passengers and guaranteeing safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u34	Mr President, Minister, this is an answer that we have heard several times in the past when we questioned you about the same problem. I'm afraid it's not enough. As long as there is insufficient reception capacity in the closed institutions, as long as the DVZ is unable to process the flow of illegal immigrants and does not confine itself to delivering an order to leave the territory, after which after a few hours back in the same place, nothing will happen and nothing can happen. It is poignant that today, of all days, the railway police have made a strike announcement. Why? I recall that in 2012 the then Minister Milquet announced that there would be a staff framework of 358 agents for the Brussels railway police. Do you know how many of these are today? 70! There are 70 effective railway police officers in Brussels on a framework of 110! This means that barely 68% of the staff of the Brussels railway police have been filled in. This is structural. This is one of the big problems. The railway police should be able to patrol and intervene in the Brussels-North station, but it cannot do so because of the shortage of staff. That is one of the major problems they are facing with this strike commitment, which we fully support. The citizens have the right to safety and the police have the right to the means to ensure that security is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I would certainly have expected much more from that agreement. It's like the chord of noble intentions. The reality is a little different. The influx is 7% higher than under the Di Rupo government. Why is that? This is very simple because the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice have not yet managed to coordinate police operations. You have already said that this was not your responsibility, but that of the local level. According to the law on integrated police, you are responsible for this. The Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration fails to build a route through return centres. That is not possible and the number of asylum applications approved is twice as high here as in France. The Minister of Justice wants to keep everyone out of prisons mainly because there is no room in prisons. There is no place in prisons because the Minister of the Interior, also responsible for the Government of the Buildings, is unable to build prisons. Finally, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration succeeds in getting people repatriated, because only 20% of whom must be deported is effectively deported. So, in summary, Minister, punitive talk selling on Twitter is pretty easy, but unfortunately it's fake news being tweeted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bpost situation is very worrying. It deteriorates every week, especially slightly more in terms of the working conditions of the more than 25,000 employees of the public enterprise. Last week, you were already answering questions about the loss of hundreds of jobs related to the outsourcing of catering, cleaning and other call centers. Since then, the unions have left the negotiating table regretting the attitude of the management and the interview of the CEO of bpost published in the press last Saturday. It is the cherries on the cake particularly indigestible! He expresses his vision of the future of bpost by announcing the decrease of the red mailboxes, giving his opinion on the fact that one could increase the price of the mails according to their sending (day+1, day+2). This would have differentiated tariffs with all the negative consequences that this could have on the daily passage of the factor that will de facto have to be changed, if these measures are applied. That would be contrary to the commitments you recently made in committee concerning the daily passage of the factor. Bpost is in the process of transforming in depth because of the very significant decrease in paper mail, which we understand. But this transformation, this new strategy cannot be done on the back of workers; it cannot be done by considering them as adjustment variables. Minister, this is a way of doing things that we will not accept. Minister, could you clarify your position, your vision for the future of red mailboxes? What about their number? We know how important it is for the community service offered to our fellow citizens, whether they live in cities or in more rural areas. What is your position on the announced tariff differentiation? Could you reaffirm the commitments you have made with regard to the daily passage of the factor? What actions do you intend to take to restore social dialogue? This is a fundamental element. Unions and bosses must return to the discussion table. Finally, Ecolo-Groen has a formal request to make: he asks that the CEO of the company, Koen Van Gerven, be heard in the Infrastructure Committee as soon as possible, in order to have an in-depth debate on his vision and the future of bpost. This request will be tabled next Wednesday on the table of the Infrastructure Committee. I wanted to know if you could support her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u37	Mr President, Minister, last week my colleague Laurent Devin asked you about the restructuring announced at bpost. On the same day, and it is rare in this undertaking, workers' representatives left the negotiating table. Since then, the CEO of bpost has decided to attack not only the workers, but also the population itself. He decided to increase the price of the stamp, to reduce the distribution of the mail and to remove the red boxes. Some, including me, see it as a "panic" management in the face of the fall in the price of bpost share, which is not due to its employees – not more than to a supposed increase in paper mail – but simply to a bad takeover in several other companies. In the end, after the workers, it is the citizens in general who will pay more to receive less. A decrease in services provided by a public undertaking is not acceptable. The reduction in the distribution of mail is there, but was totally predictable despite the maintenance of the volume of paper mail. It must therefore be stopped saying that it is because of an alleged decrease that the number of workers and services to the population must be reduced. Minister, like the government as a whole, you are increasing pressure because you are obsessed with a strong listing on the stock exchange, in the scenario of a possible privatization of this public company. My questions will be the same as those of my colleague. Minister, are you in favour of differentiating the price of the stamp according to the time of distribution? Do you support red box removal? Do you intend to take steps to bring social dialogue back into the company? I would also like to reassure Mr Vanden Burre that we will, of course, receive, for a hearing, the CEO of bpost, as we do with all public companies. He will naturally have to come and explain himself. I would add that, if the committee so wishes, I will also invite the representatives of the workers, because today dialogue is no longer possible. Minister, these are my few questions. We are committed to this public enterprise, but we also want a public enterprise to continue to provide services to all citizens equally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u38	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, after class justice, soon the class post? That's the question we can ask ourselves. If I'm rich, my letter takes one day to get to his recipient. If I'm less red... (…): (…)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u39	Less red, no! That's not right now! If I'm less rich, my letter reaches its recipient in three days. This is what the CEO of bpost, Koen Van Gerven, has proclaimed. It is also recalled that last March, postal rates increased. Who manages this position? He's a former banker. We don't have a postal logic to manage this business but a financial logic. I'm buying companies. I'm firing as many people as I can. I give as many dividends as possible to the shareholders. In a recent interview, he welcomed a return of 8.5% to shareholders. When you know that a saver receives 0.01%, you wonder if you really have to give 8.5% to the shareholders. In addition, the CEO of bpost is a former member of Fortis. It's a little scary when you remember the story of Fortis and you see that he buys companies in a very adventurous way. We wonder if Radial will be Bpost's ABN AMRO tomorrow. Minister, your position is not very clear on the substance. On the form, you say the CEO should communicate better with the staff. Is it really to hear them in their claims or to trick them? Your position is not very clear. We need more pedagogy, says another member of your government. Pedagogy is apparently fashionable in the federal government. Minister Bacquelaine said the same thing about pensions. We break pensions, but we need more pedagogy to explain it to people. We break the job, but we need more pedagogy to explain to people that it's inevitable. Minister, my questions are clear. I would like you to respond not only to me but also to the voters given the electoral deadlines. Do you agree with the end of daily mail, except for those who pay more? Or say to the CEO: "Koen, throw this plan in the trash!"? Furthermore, do you agree with the thousands of jobs lost as a result of such a plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u40	Thank you for these questions, which are somewhat duplicative of last week's questions. I'm not going to repeat everything, but we all know that the company is changing. All of us send far fewer letters. You're saying the fall isn't so sharp. Yes! The decrease in mail is 8% compared to the previous year. It's really a big difference. We're sending more packages. That's true, but the context in which bpost works has changed a lot. I think it is normal for bpost management to reflect on the services that the company provides to customers, to their expectations. These expectations and the way in which they operate are quite different today from ten or fifteen years ago. I would like to make two points. First, the company has been undergoing transformation for years. So far this transformation has always taken place in a social dialogue and in a framework of quality discussion. Here I ask management to reconnect with this tradition and to have a real concertation with regard to the needs of the company but also certainly with regard to the role of the workers in this. A social dialogue must be established with a mutual understanding of the needs of the company and the needs of the customers. The second element relates to proposals that are made or that are not made. I think launching ideas in newspaper interviews is not the right way to do it. This must be done in concert, but we must also be clear about what Mr. Van Gerven said and didn't say. Nowhere did he say that the daily distribution would no longer take place. He didn't say that. In fact, the management contract clearly continues to say that there will be a daily distribution, five days a week. On the other hand, I see nothing against the fact that, at some point, a reflection is based on the needs of the customers, where the majority of the citizens say: "If an invoice is sent and received the next day or this invoice is received two days later, it does not make much difference". It seems to me quite logical to think about this difference. I hear it's new or we've never seen it. No! It existed! The prior stamp existed! It's not so new! It is quite normal that there should be a reflection on this. A company like bpost works in a changing market and in a world in which consumer expectations are completely different. If we want to send something urgently today, we no longer send a letter! But this does not mean that the letter no longer has a role to play, it simply has a role different from the one it was fifteen years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers, but you have not answered all the questions. You are asking for a social dialogue, important for the transformation of the company, and we can only join you. But as the minister responsible, you also have the means to strengthen this social dialogue. You make a call here and I hope the bpost management will hear you but when the situation is serious – and it is today! –, we expect more from a minister in charge. You are not asked to make this effort in day-to-day management, but when social consultation is stopped, it is your duty to restore it through concrete actions. You did not answer questions about mailboxes or the price of stamps. If there is a tariff differentiated according to the speed of distribution, it is clear that there will be an effect on the shift of the factor. One has a direct impact on the other. It is true that the CEO did not express himself on the subject, but it cannot be imagined that this will not have an impact on the passage of the factor. Finally, I would like you to respond to my request regarding the hearing of Koen Van Gerven. Even if it is the parliamentarians who decide the hearings, it would be interesting to have your opinion on the matter. The idea is to re-establish a dialogue with the workers' representatives, the management of the company and the minister responsible. We are trying to open the dialogue, and we will do so soon in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. There's a drop in the mail, I'll give it to you. But I would like to point out that the mail sector is a beneficiary. Universal service is cost-effective, we have had very long debates in committee on the postal law in this regard. The projections were predictable, there were adaptations and modernizations of the society in the light of this decrease in mail. Secondly, not everyone wants his letter every day, we agree. So, instead of increasing prices for those who want mail on a daily basis, let's cut prices for less service. You propose to increase the rate in exchange for a lower service! All this because there is pressure from shareholders, but I would remind you that the majority shareholder is the state. The State must stabilize the enterprise, value the workers' proper work, value social peace and public service, that is, service to all citizens, regardless of the territory. I would like to hear this word in the mouth of the main shareholder, that is, the State. I would like to reassure my colleague that I will propose the hearing that you mentioned at the next meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. I do not want the executive to get involved in the work of the committee because I want the separation of powers. I hope that the majority will endorse this proposal for hearing both from the CEO and from representatives of workers and consumer representatives, because all citizens will be affected by this policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u43	Minister, although your answer was not quite clear, it was clear enough to understand that you supported the measure. If we have money, the mail will be distributed the next day and if it is not, it will be the second or third day. You support the measure of the CEO, which will lead to the disappearance of the daily shift of the factor in the medium term. You did not mention the job losses that this will represent. I guess that's not your first concern. I note that the same argument goes – also in the CEO's mouth – to ensure the company's long-term survival. This is somewhat like the bleeds of the Middle Ages: there were 39,000 full-time equivalents in 2003, today there are 25,000 and thousands of jobs continue to be eliminated with this measure. This shows that liberalisation is not a better and cheaper service but a less good and more expensive one!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u44	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, this morning we were able to look at a report in the newspaper and in the committee of inquiry on the attacks on the subject of human rights. I would like to add my words about the very dubious content of certain books and brochures used in Islam education. It is very nice that this theme is now brought to the surface. I think that the judicial system should look at whether there are any criminal cases: calls for violence, calls for hatred, calls for anti-Semitism, all of which we have criminalised in this House and which we hope will be dealt with correctly. However, we must go further. The brochures are printed and they need money for that. There is therefore some funding behind it, and it is usually very unclear. In our committee of inquiry, witnesses came to talk about the Great Mosque, which is funded through the Muslim World League based in Saudi Arabia. Over the last few days, there has been a debate in the Netherlands which showed that the Foreign Minister was aware of funding from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States, but did not mention it to Parliament or even the government. Minister, I came back on a plane this morning from a visit to Saudi Arabia. We have had very useful contacts in this area. We understand that there would be a law in Saudi Arabia, or a decree, very recently introduced, which obliges all Saudis, citizens and associations to seek permission from the country to which they lead certain flows of money. In concrete terms, this means that if a Saudi association or a Saudi citizen pays money to an association active in Belgium, we must be informed and we must also give permission to do so. However, the content of that law is particularly unclear. I understand from the ambassador of Saudi Arabia that there is little transparency about its concrete significance. I come to the questions I would like to ask about this. Firstly, to what extent do we know this law? Do we know how far its content extends? Secondly, does the law have any consequences? Do you know of any financial flows reported under this law? I assume this will be for the Foreign Office. Thirdly, are there similar laws that can be used to look at financial flows to mosques and religious institutions, for example for the Gulf States or for Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u45	Mr President, Mr De Roover, I have had a lot of contact with my colleagues from the Gulf countries in connection with the financing or influence in mosques and the education of Islam in our country. Specifically with regard to Saudi Arabia, I have had a number of billateral contacts with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saudi Arabia in the last year. These contacts went in different directions. First of all, I asked him to stop the administration of the Great Mosque. You know this has happened now. I have taken a number of decisions together with my colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department, following an agreement with Saudi Arabia, in order to achieve a different management, from Belgium. Secondly, we have also received information about a possible law or a decree in Saudi Arabia. It is not very transparent and we have not yet seen a text. Consequently, we have not seen any implementation of such a text. We therefore have no information regarding possible funding. I have also read the information from the Netherlands and I have asked the Netherlands to get more information about a possible agreement. At the end of last year we sent a mission to Saudi Arabia, with the various services. Justice, CFI and OCAD were there. A MOU has now been signed between the Financial Information Processing Cell and its Saudi counterpart on the exchange of information on money laundering and terrorist financing and related criminal activities. We are trying to go further, not only to have contact between the specialized services but also between the two departments, in order to achieve a MOU in the same way as that possible law. Then it is possible to request an agreement from the Belgian government for any possible financing, while it must stop without agreement. We are trying to move in that direction, not only with Saudi Arabia but also with the other countries. I have been in contact with Qatar in this connection, and we are also working on Kuwait. We have made progress in the management of the Great Mosque. There is good cooperation between financial services dealing with the problem of money laundering. However, we need to go even further and achieve a more transparent exchange of information. We're not there yet. We will see if it is possible to work in the same way as in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u46	Minister, when we can map out these financial flows, we have taken an important step towards fundamentally looking at what might be very dubious information being disseminated to young people. You're talking about the second MOU. If I am well informed Saudi Arabia says that it is not necessary because there is legislation. However, if one is not, then of course it is the other and in that case it is of utmost importance that Saudi Arabia also makes clear what the content of that law is and how it is applicable. However, I have the impression that the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia is taking enormous steps towards a rapid development of the country. We have the opportunity to talk to Saudi Arabia about that too. In Saudi Arabia's current PR operation, the country itself claims to have a certain sovereignty with which we are asked not to interfere. We can just say the opposite to them, namely that we want to map the influence of Saudi Arabia at the moment and that we expect transparent information from them. I think that is a language, Minister, which they understand. This legislation, which we do not quite know what it is like, could certainly be an excellent tool for solving an old problem to an important extent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u47	Minister, a study by the Observatoire de la Santé et du Social just highlighted the risk of shortage of general practitioners in Brussels. This study is more than just a photograph of the medical supply: it confronts it with the needs of the population, neighborhood by neighbourhood. Brussels, like the other regions of the country, is not spared the risk of shortages or the ageing of general practitioners. Nearly one in three doctors is between 55 and 64 years of age, which means that a large number of doctors will be called to stop their profession in the next ten years. On the other hand, the Brussels situation is characterized by various aspects: a strong population growth, more and more young people, many different nationalities, a lot of insecurity and poverty. Brussels also has a large number of kotent students, tourists and commuters who often need to go to a doctor in Brussels. Some neighbourhoods, because of the age structure or socio-economic characteristics of those who populate them, would need more general practitioners. The study concludes that the shortage of general practitioners does not yet affect Brussels itself, but already manifests itself in certain neighbourhoods. It is estimated that an additional 486 general practitioners will be required by 2027. In order to deal with this situation, the Brussels Minister of Health, Mr Gosuin, said that it was essential to put the debate on general practitioners on the table and to discuss it with you at the federal level. My question is simple: would you be willing to meet Mr Gosuin and have a frank conversation with him in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u48	Mrs Caprasse, thank you for your question. Yesterday, I was delighted to hear that Messrs. Gosuin and Vanhengel had decided to take an initiative beyond partisan boundaries. The specificity of the study they commissioned is that it does not simply take a photograph of the offer, since it crosses it with the care needs of the Brussels population, neighbourhood by neighbourhood, especially since it is a difficult task. In particular, the following aspects have attracted my attention. First of all, young doctors settle mainly in middle- and lower-income neighbourhoods, while older practitioners practise mainly in so-called "richer" municipalities. It should also be noted that the rate of general practitioners in training is very low: 5.9% of the total workforce. On the other hand, older doctors seem to be the least willing to perform the role of trainee master, which is essential for the arrival of young doctors. Finally, they say that they attach importance to having a patient who will allow them to get enough income. They also wish to participate in child care services provided by the ONE or family planning centres. The study found that there was no shortage of generalists in 2017, but that it would be predictable from 2027 onwards. In addition, it cannot be forgotten that the number of doctors aged 50 and over, who are still active and wish to remain active, is far from negligible. This category is almost as important as the relatively young group of practitioners aged 45 to 54. You will certainly have noticed that the study referred to the federal cadastre, which will be updated this year on the basis of this data. Secondly, the sub-quotas - which fall under regional jurisdiction, notably through Impulseo - will be determined by the regional ministers, who will therefore have to assume their responsibilities, given that they have the means to do so. I am therefore delighted that they have taken this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you. I see that you have studied the data transmitted by the Brussels Region. I do not mind asking you - I think that would be interesting - to sit at the table with the two ministers: with Mr Vanhengel, your political colleague, and Mr Gosuin. I still come back to thinking that there is always a problem with the numerus clausus. Increasingly, there is an increasing number of women among doctors who no longer want to work 24 hours a day. In time, the doctors were in the box all the time. Today, as they are women, they want to have a decent family life as well. I think that the sociology of the profession has changed a lot and that it must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, encouraging the reintegration of long-term patients, disabled people into the workplace is obvious in the light of the evolution of the figures. Indeed, there are more than 400,000 long-term sick and disabled people and, above all, an explosion in recent years. The reintegration routes were set up a little over a year ago. Last Friday, the government announced an agreement-in-principle providing for sanctions for employers and workers, "if they do not make sufficient efforts". I repeat here the terms used by the government. One might wonder what "don't make enough effort" means. I'm curious to know what you're going to bring. The choice of this screw tower is totally incomprehensible. First of all, it has only been a little more than a year since these reintegration routes were set up. It can therefore be assumed that they have not yet reached their cruise speed. Then, with Minister Peeters, you asked the Minister for an evaluation of the National Labour Council. The social partners are now working on this. We can still be surprised because you yourself, the minister, recently glorified in the press the proper functioning of the reintegration routes. You have quoted the figure equivalent to almost 50,000 workers on reintegration journeys. It was at the end of March 2018. And then, all of a sudden, you come with this unilateral sanction decision against employers and workers. Madam Minister, why do you come, just a month after your statements about the effectiveness of integration routes, with this sanctions regime and this screwdriver? Why do you decide to break a dynamic that could be positive? Why is this choice of a stick policy rather than a positive dynamic?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u51	Madam Minister, in March 2017, after a month of discussion in the government, an agreement on accountability was finally reached as part of a broader approach to labour reintegration. A balanced approach was then adopted, whereby doctors, employers and long-term sick had to actively participate in the new concept of the reintegration plan. I congratulated you and your colleagues, because, unlike Mrs Fonck, I have always been personally convinced that a certain degree of accountability must be the final part of the concept of the labour reintegration plan and fits in with a broader approach to labour reintegration. In the meantime, we are more than a year ahead and the government is still discussing the right modalities for finally putting the agreement into practice, while the number of long-term sick people continues to rise day after day, to above 400 000, while the ACV has already called on its members not to participate in the reintegration plans, which I mentioned last time, and many employers often do not make enough efforts to get the long-term sick back to work. I find it incomprehensible that people are stalling for so long. Finally, take action and look for solutions for more efficient reintegration into work through rehabilitation, all the more so because there are very serious consequences both for employers and the long-term sick themselves and for social security. That is why I have the following questions. What's taking so long? What are the obstacles to tying up the last loose ends and finding a solution? When will the princieps agreements finally be converted into concrete measures and when will they come into force? What is the budgetary impact of the delays, because I had understood that both for 2018 and for 2019 there were a lot of resources that had to result from the introduction of a response mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u52	Mrs Fonck, Mr Spooren, last week there was indeed an agreement in principle on accountability in the Council of Ministers. The measures will strengthen the implementation of the reintegration pathways, which are already effectively successful. Since the end of 2016, this is a positive story. Mr Spooren, you are asking what caused the remaining loose ends. The difficulty is that it has to be a balanced story. Both employees and employers must be able to be held responsible for a successful return to work. I think we all agree on that. For the sake of clarity, the measures apply only to those patients who still have a remaining capacity to get to work. Those who are too ill will be left alone. Mrs Fonck, you're talking about the stick, but there's also the carrot, which is really a positive story for the employer and the employees. In the case of employers who do not make sufficient efforts in the context of reintegration, this would mean that they do not have motivation and are not likely to cooperate but, on the other hand, they will be liable to a penalty of EUR 800. This penalty may, as appropriate, be imposed in the form of an administrative fine or a compensation to social security. The practical implementation of the measures will be discussed at the next Council of Ministers. It is also important that SMEs be excluded. The workers who cooperate will, of course, not be sanctioned. Workers who clearly refuse to cooperate and thus respond to the ACV's call in Vision not to go to the control may be sanctioned from 5 to 10 % of their benefit for one month. I hope everyone's smart enough not to respond to that call in Vision. Doctors provide support and ensure that the path of reintegration is defined and facilitated. It is they who determine whether, from an objective point of view, it is possible for the sick employee to return to work. Both the employer and the employee therefore play a primary role and, if they find common ground, anything is possible. Many fine examples have proved this in recent years and we are continuing on this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u53	Mr Spooren, you say that this is not effective, but I note that two ministers in your government, including Mrs De Block, said that it was effective. At the end of March 2018, Ms De Block said it was effective. I've just said his words. Minister Peeters has also said very recently that this clearly allows for 30% reintegration into employment, which is obviously a positive figure. I think your posture is essentially ideological. Minister, I will do the same for the Minister of Employment. I want to tell you here that imposing sanctions one year after setting up reintegration routes seems to me to be a serious mistake. You will really break the momentum of trust that can be established between the worker, the employer and the physician-counsel. However, this dynamic is essential in order to achieve positive results at a given time. You're also going to cause perverse effects. In fact, tomorrow, an employer will certainly look at it twice or even three times before hiring someone with a disability or having had health problems, fearing that the worker will have to be on sick leave or that he will be reoffended. These perverse effects will break this dynamic of engagement. Personally, I plead to keep reintegration journeys with a constructive dynamic but also for you to attack the roots of evil. And the roots of evil, given the age of people with long-term illness, usually over 55 years, is the part of the qualitative and quantitative approach to career ends.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u54	Madam Minister, I fully agree with you that we already have an agreement on the principles. Everyone agrees on this, especially in the majority. I find it all the more incomprehensible that this cannot be translated into measures. We all agree on the balanced approach, as well as on the principle that workers who are really ill and no longer have residual capacity are excluded from the scheme. If we agree on the principles, I still do not understand what the difficulties are. I hope that you and your colleagues will prove in the file that the government still has the necessary determination and determination, and that in the very short term I have not heard anything about a period of time to approve not only measures in this area but also to implement them. Labour integration will enable us to better control the rising costs of social security. We do not need to cut benefits if we are to reduce the number of people who receive benefits and increase the number of people who work in the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u55	Mr President, Minister, unfortunately I have to ask questions here at regular intervals, sometimes only, sometimes with other colleagues, about the poor punctuality of the Belgian railways. I once turfed through the questions about the bad punctuality. My first question was about a poor punctuality of less than 95%, with a 6 minute delay. It then stood at 93 % and a hundred measures were announced. I remember the debate and presentations in which you were present. A little later the punctuality was 91 %. Before that it was always the fault of SNCB and Infrabel, but with the 91 % in my notes the notion was third. That would have been too many travelers, trackers or leaves on the tracks. Today the punctuality is 88 %. According to the alternative measurement of TrainTramBus, the punctuality between Ghent and Brussels during rush hour is only 44% and I get a new notion from the culprit, especially the subcontractor, in this case Siemens. I even received a letter today from train drivers who apologize. Infrabel says that the 1.40 hours delay per day is due to Siemens' failing detection system. What is the explanation for this new approach, whereby subcontractors are given up as a reason? Is Infrabel tired of it? Does it want, as can be read in a column of Latest News, to shift blame on another person and find a scapegoat and say it wasn't me? As far as punctuality is concerned, many measures have been taken, but apparently it is no longer possible. Is this a message to travellers that they will have to draw their plan in the coming months, because we do not know it ourselves, or is there an effective plan to drastically improve that punctuality in the short term? The good weather is at the door and many travellers are waiting for this moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u56	Mr President, Mr Geerts, on the Infrabel-Siemens relationship, I would like to inform you that in May 2017, Siemens started installing a new type of axle counter on the Belgian rail network. According to Infrabel, there have been reliability problems since then. Infrabel reminded Siemens of its responsibility to remedy the defect in the product supplied by it and to prevent the problem and its impact on the punctuality and thus on the traveller from further diluting. It is foreseen that the new axle counters will be rolled out in general, but this can only be done if they are fully reliable. I trust that the problems will be resolved quickly. However, I would like to make it clear that the problems of application cannot and must not justify the continuing problems with the punctuality of trains. The impact by third parties, for example, I am thinking of the phenomenon of trespassing, which is continuing to increase, should not be underestimated. That, however, certainly does not explain everything. Moreover, the government is taking the fight against this phenomenon seriously, including through the recent law on administrative sanctions in the rail sector. Colleague, the poor punctuality figures of the last few months are unacceptable. I continue to appeal to the CEOs of SNCB and of Infrabel. I expect concrete improvements from them through the rigorous implementation of the Action Plan for better punctuality. Results must now follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think all fellow train users in the Half Round share your analysis. It is true that one has to take responsibility. My job as MP of the opposition is to keep the problems on the political agenda. We share the same problems. I hope that you, as a minister, will help to provide the solutions so that I do not have to continue to raise these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u58	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I do not hide from you my good mood this morning when you read the results which you have just published, Mr Secretary of State, which have been collected by the social fraud services. It's a 37% jump. The amounts recovered increased from 194 million to 266 million euros. 2006 was not already a hollow year. But what is interesting is that the increase in sums recovered is observed at all levels, in all departments, be it ONSS, the Social Inspectorate, INASTI, the fraud of allowances or at home. These figures must be confirmed over time. But in any case, obviously, both the sectoral approach and the reform of inspection services and, I also imagine, the efficient use of data mining and data matching are beginning to bear fruit. However, I also believe that these good figures should make us think and alert us to an upsurge in fraud. What is hidden behind these figures, and I will take the example of fraud at ONSS, are all the euros that come back to the collective safety of workers in this country. I think it's really important. And at the level of the Labour Inspectorate, every undeclared job, every false self-employed person, it is a social dumping and a setback for what protects our citizens and our economy. I come to my questions. Mr Secretary of State, as I said earlier, I would like to know whether these figures are merely a reflection of better control or whether they could in part be explained by an increase in fraud. We have figures by department. Could you tell me, by sector at risk, who had already been identified at the beginning of the legislature? Are the control methods we have put in place sufficient or is it required to install new tools?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u59	Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, I confirm the figures published this morning by Sudpresse. These chiffes, which date from the end of February, are correct. There was a doubling of the previous government's figures. We have improved things through our efforts. For this government and me, this remains a real priority. First, there is the reform of the inspection services. More targeted and more extensive controls are at the root of these figures. Controls conducted by SIRS and all inspection services have increased by more than 12,000 units. This is proof of our ability to organize them. We also have an action plan against social fraud. We have given priority to social dumping in the transport sector. You've seen the results in the field in the last few months. In the construction sector, for example, we saw for the first time an increase in jobs created for Belgians. These figures are positive. With regard to legislation, we have introduced a new law on public procurement that will help us detect upstream social fraud. We have also strengthened cooperation at European level. We have not only been leaders for this new legislation, we have also entered into bilateral agreements to exchange information and have wider access to information such as those concerning mailboxes and fake independents. Allocations are one of the other priorities. We have redoubled our efforts. We've had contact with mutualities. Things are moving. We are really protecting social security, protecting workers who do not receive the wages to which they are entitled, and fighting against companies that compete unfairly with our companies. This is an essential fight to protect our workers, but also to provide opportunities for our companies to create growth and new jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u60	Secretary of State, I can only thank you and congratulate you. I encourage you, as well as the government, to pursue your reforms, which have only one objective: to support the employment, the economy and the purchasing power of our citizens. Thank you for your successful work so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u61	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u62	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u63	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u64	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u65	Mr President, I will be very brief, given the good weather and the fact that many colleagues are already thinking of the Our Lord Climbing Weekend. The bill came in collaboration with the FPS Home Affairs and the Cabinet in response to a number of problems after the composition of the police councils in 2013. The police council can only be constituted if the municipal councils are validly constituted. Well, in 2013 there were some problems with the nomination of members to the Police Council. They gave rise to all sorts of procedures and suspensions, which we would like to avoid after the forthcoming municipal elections. We immediately took the opportunity to update the legislation, because on certain points the legislative text referred to the so-called new municipal law, which has already been lifted as a result of the state reforms. So we have adapted that, taking into account the situation in the different parts of the country. Let me briefly list the changes we have made. Police council members may designate one or more successors. That used to be mandatory, now it's optional. In this way, we want to avoid any further problems. The installation of the police council used to happen on February 1st. Now that will be the thirty-first day after the city council's installation. After all, 30 days are allowed to appeal against the installation of the city council. That's how we avoid overlaps. It also provides for a replacement scheme for police council members and members of the college, in line with the rules in the regions. Provision is also made for arrangements for police council members to receive medical assistance. Furthermore, the ban on married couples to sit on the police council is extended to partners living together legally. Perhaps important for reasons of transparency and political renewal, minimum and maximum standards are set. It should also be noted that the text was adapted to the comments of the Council of State. Finally, I would like to thank all the parties, both the majority and the opposition, for their constructive contribution and the unanimous approval of the proposal in committee. Of course, I am counting on that in the vote later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u66	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u67	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2553/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2553/6) The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u68	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u69	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 April 2018, the curriculum vitae of the candidates for the mandates of member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-implantants was delivered to the political groups in vitro on 23 April 2018. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of April 19, 2018, the curriculum vitae of candidates for appointment as members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos was transmitted to the political groups on April 23, 2018. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 May 2018, I propose that you proceed with the appointment of the effective members at a later meeting and ask the Public Health Office to publish a new call to the candidates in the Belgian Official Gazette for the mandates of an alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 May 2018, I propose that you proceed, at a forthcoming meeting, with the appointment of the actual members and request the SPF Santé publique to publish a new call for candidates for the appointment of alternate members in the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u70	At the request of the applicant, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance in order to exclude municipal administrative sanctions from all insurance contracts, No. 2733/1, to be referred to the Justice Commission. At the author's request, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Justice, the bill (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 in order to exclude municipal administrative sanctions from any insurance contract, No. 2733/1. This bill was sent to the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture on 9 November 2017. This proposal was referred on 9 November 2017 to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u71	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 May 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen and Vincent Van Quickenborne) extending the tax shelter to the gaming industry, No. 3078/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u72	- the draft law amending the Law of 26 April 2002 laying down the essential elements of the Staff Regulations of Police Officers and laying down various other provisions relating to police services, No. 3084/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u73	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 May 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen and Vincent Van Quickenborne) to extend the tax shelter to the video game industry, No. 3078/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u74	- the bill (Mr. Christophe D的Haese) amending the Act of 26 April 2002 on the essential elements of the status of police personnel and laying down various other provisions relating to police services, No. 3084/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u75	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u76	This inquiry was developed in public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on May 2, 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal of 2 May 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 257/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 257/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u77	Mr. President, everyone knows the damage to the Softenon. Everyone knows about Softenon victims. Is it worth recalling that Belgium was slow to react in 1961 when other countries had taken strong measures to deal with the teratogenic effects of Softenon by simply banning its distribution? After years of legal fighting between the federal state and associations representing the victims of the Softenon, it is time to drop the weapons. It is time to take into account and recognise the specific situation of victims of this medicine who suffer from severe disabilities and premature ageing. An association representing the victims had recently won a victory since the Court of Appeal had ruled in its favour. Regardless of this judicial decision, it is time for Belgium to recognize the situation of the victims and set up a fund to compensate them. I draw your attention to the fact that the demands of these victims are reasonable and balanced. The establishment of this fund will help them resume or continue their professional investment. At some point, we have to drop the weapons, we have to stop the State combat against victims. Let's have some humanity! If you vote the pure and simple motion of the majority, it would again be tantamount to denying the victims of the Softenon. Please recognize these victims and let's advance together on this compensation fund! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u78	I call Mr Casier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u79	Mr President, I will abstain in the vote because I have a vote with Mr Vercammen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u80	Are there any other Members who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u81	Mr President, I also have a vote with Mr Luykx.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u82	Mrs Detiège, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u83	Mr President, I have a vote with Mr Klaps.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u84	If no one asks to speak, we shall now vote on the simple motion. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u85	Yes 73 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 119 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u87	Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2553/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2553/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-09-54-plenair-ip228x.u88	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 17 May 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 17 May 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 17 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
