ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u1	Minister, the reform of corporation tax has introduced changes to the system of exemption from tax on capital gains from shares. It has been chosen to align the conditions for the exemption with the conditions for the DBI deduction. In this respect, account must now be taken of the minimum retention period of one year and the requirement for participation. With regard to the valuation conditions, some questions arise from the practice. There can be no doubt that the company which disposes of the shares must hold a holding that meets the limit, in particular 10% participation in the capital or a purchase value of EUR 2,5 million, in order to obtain the exemption. If this is not the case, the exemption cannot be applied. If it is the case and the full participation is disposed of, the exemption can be applied, of course, on the assumption that all the conditions are met. However, the question arises as to whether the exemption can also be applied if the company disposes of only a limited package of its participation, which means that it no longer meets the conditions for participation as a whole. Another question in practice concerns the specific anti-abuse clause which, as with the DBI deduction, should prevent bad shares from being converted into good shares. This provision applies to the value added exemption only for the shares that are bad as a result of the non-respect of the valuation conditions. This means that the anti-abuse clause does not apply to the shares that are bad because they do not comply with the detention condition and/or the participation condition. This exclusion is less clear and is not justified in the explanatory memorandum to the reform. Mr Minister, when we begin to study and reread this, we discover new things. This is a good example of this. In that sense, it is good to get more clarity from you on this. Can you clarify whether the participation condition should be considered for each share package that is disposed of or whether it is sufficient that the total holding of the holding meets the participation condition? In your opinion, does it matter what the size of the alienated stock package is? In other words, is it going to look at this per tranche or is it going to be fixed and globalized? Mr Minister, can you explain why the anti-abuse clause does not apply to shares that do not comply with the detention condition and/or the participation condition? I don't know if it's meant to be, but don't you think this is gonna open the door for improper use?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u2	Among other things, with regard to the issue that you are right to touch, I can inform you that the administration is currently preparing a circular on the new provisions relating to the added value of shares as introduced by the Law of 25 December 2017 on company tax reform. To the questions you put it is difficult to answer clearly within the time limit of an oral parliamentary question. In the meantime, I have asked the administration to elaborate further on what you put in your questions in the circular in question, so that a clear and clear answer can be found in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u3	Thank you for your commitment. It's an answer in delayed relays. From the practical point of view, we are waiting for the answers. I therefore hope that the circular can soon be completed and all the scenarios described. We, as Members of Parliament and as co-sponsors, have approved the law, but this shows that the scenarios were better described in detail in advance. If it has to be done quickly and it has not been possible to take stock of all the questions, it is not so neat to the practice. These questions illustrate that well. That is certainly a collective responsibility. We are therefore looking forward to the circular, which will give clear instructions to all the administrative forces that need to be involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u4	Mr President, Minister, students or student entrepreneurs can earn their own remuneration or profits, but they must take into account the fact that their net income does not exceed a certain amount if they are still to be taxed by their parents. When we look at the Income Tax Code, we see that Article 136 requires a child to remain dependent on parents if it does not receive more than EUR 3 200 net income as a child. In this case, it is specifically for student labour and the status of student entrepreneurs that account should be taken of the concept of "net means of subsistence." Article 143, 7° of the WIB states that EUR 2 260 is not considered as a net means of existence. In the context of the application of net resources, according to the WIB, a cost margin of 20% must also be applied; I refer to Article 142. We are sitting here with these different articles, 136, 143, 7° and 142. When reading these rules together, it is not so obvious to say what the basis and exemptions are for the net amount. There seems to be confusion in the local tax authorities too. In this context, I would like to ask you the following questions. Mr Minister, do you think it is right that we should add the amount of Article 136 and 143, 7° in the case of student labour and student entrepreneurs? If not, is there a hierarchy between those articles? Or does one rule out the other? What's the relationship between those two articles? Could you also clarify the amount to be charged for the cost of Article 142? Is this on the total sum of gross remuneration, gains and losses? Can you explain the maximum amount for 2018? I have always talked about indexed amounts, but what is the amount of money for 2018 that students and students-entrepreneurs will still be liable to their parents for tax? For students, this is the first practical question in the field of taxation, namely how far one can go. It is good that there can be clarity in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u5	Mr Deseyn, the maximum amount of income income referred to in Article 136 of the Income Tax Code 92, which is EUR 3 270 for the 2018 income year, is a net amount. In order to determine the net amount of the means of subsistence, the gross amount of income obtained should first be reduced by the amounts which, according to Article 143 of the same Code, are not to be considered as means of subsistence, such as the first tranche of EUR 2 720 of the total remuneration obtained by job students and pupils in alternance training and the profits, benefits and corporate remunerations obtained by student self-employed persons referred to in point 7 of that Article. Thereafter, according to Article 142 of the same Code, the gross amount of resources thus determined must be reduced by the proven actual costs or by a cost margin of 20%, with a minimum of EUR 450 in the case of employee remuneration or benefits. Assuming that the student does not prove his actual costs and does not have any other means of subsistence, the maximum amount of remuneration of job students and/or of profits, benefits or management fees of student self-employed persons that a student is allowed to earn gross in 2018 in order to remain liable for tax is as follows: EUR 6 807,50 if his parents are taxed together, EUR 8 620 if his parents are taxed alone and the student is not considered to be disabled and EUR 10 207,50 if his parents are taxed alone and the student is considered to be fiscally disabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u6	Minister, the answer sounded like a clear guide which will certainly benefit practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u7	Minister, example 2 of the explanatory memorandum to the law of 25 December 2017 on corporate tax reform would clearly show, in your view, that what is described as an income surplus definitively taxed under the Income Tax Code must be considered a deferred loss from the point of view of the directive. This example shows that the dividend received compensates for the loss of the year that disappears and leaves room for a deduction of deferred deductible dividends, by an equivalent amount. As a reminder, the example concerned a corporation with 100 dividend income, 50 other income and 100 deductible professional expenses. On the basis of this example, you conclude that the introduction of a restriction on the deduction of deferred deductible dividends does not prevent the achievement of the result referred to in Article 4 of Directive 2011/96, as long as this deduction of transferred deductible income is treated in the same way as a deferred loss. Consider a corporation with income (other than dividends) of 25 and 125 deductible professional expenses, i.e. at this stage a loss of 100 fiscal years. To this negative result of 100 seconds adds a deductible dividend of 90, so that the result of the fiscal year is less than 10. Minister, can you tell me: (a) In the case of non-obvious accounting, does the deduction of deductible dividends carried over from 90 continue to be treated as a deferred loss? (b) If the answer to question (a) is negative, could the corporation deduct the amount of 90 as a deductible dividend in subsequent years from the non-convincing year? Is the Trash Plan likely to apply to this amount? (c) If the answer to question (a) is yes, should it be inferred - since it must be treated in the same way as a deferred loss -,) that the deduction of 90 would be definitively lost in view of the non-probable nature of the accounts? I would point out that this issue is part of the examination of the provisions of the corporate tax reform, particularly with regard to budgetary neutrality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u8	Mr Laaouej, your question does not seem to me to concern the changes that have taken place since the law of 25 December 2017 and the said basket introduced by this law. It seems to be more generally concerned with assessing whether, in the context of non-evidence accounting, it is necessary to refuse the postponement of RTD for the taxable period and whether this is contrary to the Mother-daughter Directive. It is not possible to answer this question in detail without a thorough examination of the substance by my administration; I have already asked it to do so as soon as possible in order to obtain clarity on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u9	Minister, my question is dated March 28, 2018. It's a month later. So you may already have the answer. Not yet? That means I have to come back to get an answer to my question. Unless you provide it to me spontaneously, which I already thank you for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u10	Minister, Table 10 of the Report of the Monitoring Committee of March 14, 2018 sets out the budgetary impacts of the tax measures according to the nature of the taxes. In the area of corporate tax, the impact would be EUR 241 million on advance payments, up to EUR 100 million from the fight against tax fraud (transfer pricing), EUR 100 million from the specialised real estate investment fund measure, EUR 40 million from the fight against tax fraud, EUR 5 million from better control of the 80% rule and a negative amount of EUR 4 million from the measures of the corporate tax reform, and EUR 4 million from the roles. In the area of personal tax, the impact would be a negative amount of EUR 111.3 million on advance payments, a negative amount of EUR 1,565 million on the professional discount and a positive amount of EUR 1.4 million on the roles. Mr Minister, could you confirm to me that on the basis of the above mentioned elements, the impact, first, of the abandonment of the'major' multiplier coefficient, as set out in Article 18, § 3, paragraph 2 (b) of the Royal Decree implementing the CIR for housing, i.e. a coefficient of 3.8 for buildings with a cadastral income of more than EUR 745, which concerns the free provision of a building by a company to its manager. In other words, have you taken into account the cost of tax reform for buildings made available to business leaders? Nor, secondly, of the repeal of the fairness tax, which was not part of the reform of 25 December 2017 on corporate tax reform? Budgeting in this regard was $250 million. Have you taken into account this recipe destined to disappear? So on these two points, the change in the property tax system made available free of charge to corporate administrators and the fairness tax that falls and will no longer bring back money, have you considered the costs in your budget? Incidentally, could you tell me what the budgetary impact is both from the abandonment of the increased coefficient "buildings made available" and from the repeal of the fairness tax on the 2018 budget, from the level of advance payments and from the level of roles?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u11	Mr Laaouej, in his judgment of 20 February 2018, the Ghent Court of Appeal held that, in view of the established violation of the principle of equality, the general rule of flat-rate determination should be applied. In so doing, the difference in valuation between a legal person and a natural person was rejected by the court. This is why the government has decided to carry out a more detailed budgetary and legal analysis so that the distinction between a legal person and a natural person when making available is erased without increasing the tax burden. With regard to the repeal of the fairness tax, total revenues, including crisis contributions, reach the level of €63.7 million for the 2016 tax year. The repeal of the fairness tax is included in the security margin provided for in the corporate tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I want to ask you what the security margin is for corporate tax reform. Indeed, it seems to me that this margin of safety is put on all sauces. There is uncertainty about the performance of the fight against tax optimisation. There is uncertainty as to the evolution of the system of notional interests. How much is this margin of safety? It seems to me that it is often recycled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u13	I don't have the funding table in front of me. But it's included in the security margin that remains in the overview of the funding elements that have been planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u14	Minister, you explained to us the current performance of the fairness tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u15	We're talking about 63 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u16	But you had budgeted a lot more.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u17	The budget has been adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u18	I'm not sure!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u19	Yes. We made the decision to drop the tax and we took it into account in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u20	We have a divergence of analysis. In my view – and that is what you said at the time – until the Court of Luxembourg had ruled, by way of a question referred by the Constitutional Court for a preliminary ruling, there is no reason to reduce the estimate of the amount in revenue. There is, in my view, a clear problem. We shall return to that point. That said, you are now coming with a new argument and you are arguing that this is part of the overall security margin of corporate tax reform. Hence my question as to how high this margin of security has been reminded of the extent to which it should not be overestimated, since it could already be absorbed by the uncertainties on some very important aspects that are supposed to be reported in the context of corporate tax reform. I referred to the measures linked to the European directives – the implementation of the European directives on optimisation, but also the gradual elimination of notional interests. A large number of uncertainties are related to this. I don't think betting on the safety margin is very careful. But we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u21	Minister, the monitoring committee issued its report again pointing out the government's approximations, particularly in the estimation of revenues. I come back to you on a few specific points in the report. Table 10 of the report shows a line "impact of corporate tax reform": Advance payments IPP: minus 74.3 million; Advance payments ISOC: minus 4.0 million; Miscellaneous: plus 117.3 million; a positive impact of 39 million. So my question is very simple: what do these 117.3 million correspond to? What measures in the ISOC reform law can be identified behind the term "Miscellaneous"? I would like to take this opportunity to say that I have not had an answer to the question of how much the tax reform on immovables made available to administrators costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u22	Mr Laaouej, the 117.3 million relating to the reform of the ISOC concern two elements: the changes in the calculation and rates concerning interest on late payment and interest on moratoria for 20.1 million and the adjustments concerning the exemption from taxation of capital reductions for 97.2 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers and I take note of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament No 24769 by Mrs Griet Smaers and No 24769 by Mrs Smaers and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 24778 by Mr Conseil Degroote have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u25	Mr Minister, the Cayman tax, known as the transparency tax, should have been a good tool for combating tax evasion. Unfortunately, you have done nothing to prevent it from becoming ineffective. The result would be only €5 million, instead of the €510 million provided for in the State budget. You don't seem to be challenging that figure. This new tile highlights two important problems. It is clear that your government's ambition is clearly not to combat international tax fraud effectively. You have put in place a "gruyère" device, which did not produce results. You answer that the aim of the Cayman tax was to fight, and therefore to suppress, legal constructions abroad. But in that case, where did all the money that was in those buildings go? Is it subject to regularization, movement to other instruments or structures? In which budget item is there a significant increase in return that could show that the tax was collected in Belgium? Moreover, if the fact that the Cayman tax does not pay anything proves its effectiveness, as you seem to say, why have you budgeted an annual return of 510 million euros? We were also able to extract some of your two-year-old returns, where you indicated that the amount of $460 million was understated and that the Cayman tax could earn much more. You again have an important budgetary problem. We would also have liked to hear from the Minister of Budget, but that seems difficult. Your explanation, "this proves that it works", is not, at this stage, well-founded. However, everyone told you from the outset, Minister - the budget estimates were quite questionable: the Court of Auditors, first of all, Europe, but also the opposition. Nothing has changed your mind and so far you have not provided a valid explanation. We would therefore like to hear from you about these different elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u26	I asked a question in that connection, but that was before the figure of 5 million was published in the press. Statistics from the FPS Finance show that the number of declarations of accounts abroad for the 2016 tax year is lower than in 2015. The number of declarations has fallen from 156 000 to 147 000. There is also a decrease in the legal structures. [[In 2015 there were 1 585 and that fell to 1 418.]] I then asked about the implications for the caiman tax. In the last few days' discussion of the revenue from the Cayman tax, you have said a few times that people are being deterred from accounts abroad that are taxed through this tax. They want to avoid that tax and prefer to pay taxes in their own country, which would reduce the number of accounts abroad. The same applies to the legal structures. Discussions have also emerged in the press over the last few days, saying: "Les Belges abandonnent l'offshore." This was accompanied by a whole analysis of professors, which states that the number of offshore structures is reduced by the Common Reporting Standard at European level, enabling the automatic exchange of information on Belgians' holdings abroad. That scares the hell out of us, and that's why the transparency tax leads some people to shut down their constructions or accounts. It is said that it would cost a great deal. That would be one of the explanations. My questions relate to the proceeds. I did not say it so explicitly, but we have been discussing it in committee since 2015. At that time, the calculation was made in such a way that a very first application of 150 million was made, according to the estimates of the FPS Finance and the National Bank. They were raised fairly quickly to 460 and now to 520 million. I never believed in that. Apparently, I was still too optimistic when I estimated 40 million. The amount of 5 million quoted now explains to you, in part, the difficulty of talking about the revenue, as a result of the fact that the caiman tax is not included separately in the budget. So we cannot detect its yield. According to you, it is spread over other income, mainly withholding tax, but even personal income tax. The pure yield of the caiman tax would therefore not be estimated, since there is no separate box for it, not even in the tax return. The debate on this is really starting to get very confusing and gives rise to all kinds of interpretations. In the long run, I don't really know what they mean anymore. Several tax experts have expressed their views on this issue. According to them, "the Common Reporting Standard is indeed very invasive, because a lot of information is communicated automatically. By being in Belgium, the taxpayer enjoys greater confidentiality, by the fact that bank secrecy still exists a little in Belgium (...) for the holders of social capital not to let see the extent of their assets, even if they are obliged to declare income." So there are all kinds of interpretations about that. Is it true that the number of legal constructions has decreased? I only have figures for 2016, what was that like in 2017? So where's the yield if it's not in the pure caiman tax? One cannot know that because one cannot actually calculate it. In a derivative manner, this should lead to a strong increase. After all, you estimate it at EUR 500 million. Is that in the withholding tax? We don't see a significant increase there, do we? Mr Laaouej raises a number of questions which relate solely to the proceeds, but my question is about the mechanisms. I read your statements in the press. You are actually saying that this cannot be calculated, that it has certainly produced so much but that it is in other posts. Some of these legal arrangements are waived because it is a more expensive matter than to declare and pay it in Belgium. Perhaps you could shed some light on that? When I read those articles in the media, there is a lot of confusion. The professors, for example Thierry Afschrift and Sabrina Scarna, also interpret things differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u27	As far as the accounts abroad are concerned, as far as other than constructions abroad are concerned, definitive data are available for the 2015 tax year. For that year there are 156 515 accounts known at the IRS. For the 2016 tax year, these figures are still provisional, as the three-year assessment period, as laid down in Article 353, is still ongoing. So far there have been 156 484 accounts, a number very similar to that of the previous year. As far as the legal constructions are concerned, 1 591 known constructions are involved for the 2015 tax year. Those are final figures. For the 2016 tax year it was 1 589 constructions, so almost the same figure. This is a provisional figure. For 2017, these are 1 443 constructions, which is also a provisional figure. In any case, there is a decrease of 10 % in the number of constructions. That is, of course, a good thing. However, I would like to remind you of the government's explicit objective of the Cayman tax: greater transparency and discouragement of such offshore constructions. Moreover, you have both referred to press statements in which various fiscalists explicitly confirm that the use of such structures is falling structurally. Does this have implications for the yield of the Cayman tax? Money that is not injected into offshore construction comes back, at least for part, in Belgium and ends up in the regular cycle of economy and taxation. It is also, I believe, a very positive consequence of the Cayman tax. To claim that the caiman tax only raises 5 million is to forgive me the expression "fucking bullshit." The figures concerned the amounts indicated in declarations indicating a legal arrangement. First of all, I would like to stress that these figures for the 2017 tax year are still very provisional figures, as was also clearly stated in the reply to the oral question on which those calculations were based. The fact that these figures were very provisional was then ignored. Of course, this preliminary data is not representative of the final figures for previous years. You know there's no separate code for the caiman tax. It's not tax in itself either. It's a legal mechanism to look into constructions. That possibility didn't exist in the past. I note that those who are screaming about it today have been trying for years to organize something like this but have never succeeded. This government is the first to make effective work of it and which has effectively installed such a tax, or if you like, such a mechanism, and has already tightened up several times, as you all know. Then where did the $5 million come from? Apparently, insofar as we were able to reconstruct it ourselves, one code has been looked at which taxable persons with a foreign structure have to report their income. The amount increased significantly in 2016 compared to 2015, from 41 million to 212 million euros. For full figures for 2017, it is still too early. So one is likely to leave provisional figures, with that amount falling again to 57 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u29	That's from one code in the note.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u30	About offshore accounts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u31	Yes. From the declarations, sorry. The difference between the 2015 and 2017 amounts, namely EUR 41 million and EUR 57 million, is then taken as provisional figures, yielding 16 million. If you apply the rate of 27 per cent of withholding tax, you will actually get close to EUR 5 million. Retracting that amount to the revenue from the caiman tax is not correct. With regard to the efficiency of the transparency tax, my administration and I have always replied that it is impossible to determine it on the basis of the figures available, since income is broken down into the mass of income tax and prepayments. On the other hand, the figures for declarations referring to a legal construction do not contain any information on another important effect of the transparency tax, namely that these constructions are dissolved and that the investments are made directly from Belgium, with application of the normal tax rules, without intervention of a legal construction. All this explains why the media circulates an amount that has nothing to do with the reality of the Cayman tax. As stated, for example in La Libre, several lawyers have made it very clear that they have already personally dealt with statements which could result, thanks to the tax of natural persons, in amounts exceeding the five million euros quoted. Moreover, several tax experts absolutely contradict the fact that the viewing tax lacks its purpose. We must also not forget the important impact of the increasing exchange of tax information in this context. Signals from practice suggest that there are many questions to dissolve constructions, given the tightening of the browsing load, combined with the significantly increased international exchange possibilities of tax data, and certainly last but not least, the efforts of the BBI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u32	Minister, we would not be there if you and the government had accepted what we were asking for, that is, a separate code in the statement. This would have made it possible to clarify the budgetary and parliamentary debate. This option has not been adopted and we must try, by deduction, by induction, to recompose the alleged revenue from the so-called transparency tax, which is, in fact, particularly obscure. Mr Minister, you are deconstructing the methodology that led our colleagues in the Sp.a to the figure of EUR 5.5 million in a rather weak and disputable manner. We are absolutely not convinced by your way of proceeding. In particular, we contest your argument that reducing the efficiency of the transparency tax means that it has a deterrent effect. This ultimately means that people would have abandoned offshore structures. In support of your remarks, you present the testimony of a few tax lawyers. A beautiful adage says, "From the memory of a rose, we never saw a gardener die." This means that a few testimonies from tax lawyers cannot account for the vast reality of the assets held by Belgians in offshore structures. The figures vary according to estimates, but we know that they are in the order of tens of billions of euros. You yourself mentioned the figure of EUR 57 billion in assets held by Belgians abroad. We would like to believe that, overnight, these 57 billion would no longer be in offshore structures. Personally, I believe that much more caution and humility must be exercised in the face of this phenomenon, which by definition is difficult to identify. It is not because a few lawyers feel that their clients are more cautious about managing their assets than, however, some Belgians do not continue to own assets in offshore structures, even if these assets have been moved to financial structures or products that are outside the scope of your legal framework. Another factor that is breaking your argument is that if people had stopped placing their money in offshore structures and said that they were going to make amends and regularize their situation in one way or another, they would either go through the regularization process that you have put in place – you could, in this case, tell us that you have worked well, that you see the statistics of tax regularization increasing. I can't see that's the case. Or else, there would be an increase in the income of the household discount. There, I have two angles of approach that make it possible to contest your argument. First of all, the overall revenue from furniture discount does not increase significantly. I see, in particular, that the total revenue of the furniture discount, which amounted to 4.7 billion euros in 2015, has increased to 4.3 billion euros in 2017. If, in fact, people had stopped placing their assets in offshore structures to place them in onshore structures, there would be an increase in the revenue of the household discount because they should report their income or, in any case, ensure that there is a withholding tax at source. Then, if we refine the analysis a little bit, and look at, in particular, what is involved in the return in terms of non-prepayment income, we might imagine that there would be another front door for these revenues which, allegedly, come from offshore structures. Nor is there any significant increase, in any case up to what should have been reported by the Cayman tax - neither in the number of revenues reported, nor in the amount of the estimated revenue - that would support the explanation that you claim to give us. Therefore, we do not see an increase in household prepayment receipts, either aggregated or disaggregated, that would provide the basis for your response. I don't think it's true, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u33	I thank the Minister for his answer, but I still have questions about the size. What was the 540 million euros based on? Sixty or 70 billion euros were assumed to be in foreign accounts with a capital return of about 3%. They were going to charge 25%. The offshore accounts are detected accounts. Both the FPS Finance and the National Bank stated that they were at that time able to estimate a return of 100 to 120 million euros. There was never more than EUR 500 million. It is a mystery to me where that amount came from all of a sudden, especially after the measure to disable the trusts' benefits in 2017. This measure has come under pressure from Parliament. I believe that there is still a huge overestimate of such measures. Under pressure from the Common Reporting Standard, there is currently the automatic exchange of information. In Belgium, tax regularisation was an incentive to bring capital back to this country, because despite the Cayman tax and fines there is still a certain banking secret in our country. We discussed this in the Panama Papers Committee of Inquiry. I believe that we could have crossed the line in that area. Overall, this makes me uncomfortable, Minister. I had never planned a return of more than EUR 500 million. This would have avoided the current discussion. I assume that there are a number of other ways that have led to the return of income to Belgium, including through the withholding tax. But that doesn't explain the large size of the estimate. Any tax change naturally causes behavior changes. That is also the case here. We have seen this in other types of taxes such as the speculative tax. The impact tax will also entail a number of behavioural changes. Cayman tax has really been a tax that some people interpret as a lack of fiscal justice. The measure in itself was good. The previous Secretary of State, Mr Crombez, has never managed to put this on the table. The previous government with Di Rupo failed to do so. The principle was approved by a large majority in Parliament. A number of people from the opposition have also approved this, but the bilan after two years gives me an uncomfortable feeling. We must not throw the child away with the bath water, but we should have introduced a code in the Panama Commission, as Mr Laaouej says, in black and white with the figures. Now that's a non-committal matter with no figures. I think that our committee should look at this problem in greater depth. It makes me feel uncomfortable because no one knows what the numbers are now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u34	Mr. Laaouej, your reasoning on the furniture discount is quite correct. Except that you assume that all the other elements that determine this furniture discount do not move. You are referring to a change likely to be caused by the Cayman tax. However, the figures do not show that. However, we have increased the rate; the Netherlands has reduced theirs, France has announced that it will do the same. There are also a number of elements at the international level. Distinguishing which will cause such a consequence at the level of the income of the household discount may be a very complicated exercise. But we're gonna try to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u35	Minister, you're the one who wants to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u36	No, I'm saying it's hard to detect where and when the amounts from the mounts in tax havens resurface in the legal economy and tax revenues. You may find it embarrassing, but it's a reality raised by all the tax practitioners who have spoken out about it. Mr Van Rompuy, the estimate has been made in two stages. As you may remember, the very first estimate you are giving was without the United States, Luxembourg and Switzerland. We all know that certainly the two latter countries, but also do not underestimate the United States in such constructions, are important entities. That is one element that makes the initial estimate, as explicitly stated at the time, certainly an understatement in the logic of that reasoning and in the absence of the three entities mentioned. Secondly, there is the fact that in the meantime, with the help of the opposition, as I would like to admit, we have tightened and adapted the caiman tax at various times. This means that the estimates have evolved as they have evolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u37	Minister, you have come with the argument that, if the Cayman tax does not achieve the yield budgeted by the government, with a rather massive difference, it is because the Belgians have abandoned the use of offshore structures. You're the one who put forward this hypothesis. If they have in fact abandoned the use of offshore structures, it is because they have repatriated the money, in one way or another. I wish the best of luck to anyone who today wants to repatriate four, five or six million euros without alerting either the Financial Information Processing Unit (ICTIF) or the tax administration. It is extremely difficult today to bring back money from abroad without alerting detection systems. As a reminder, all studies that have tried to assess with serious methodologies the assets held by Belgians abroad, in particular those who have been interested in the assets held in Switzerland, have shown that in general, the vast majority of assets held offshore are not reported. For Switzerland, the percentage was between 80 and 90 %! People who want to repatriate their offshore assets must either go through tax regularization – and then, if you had a consistent reasoning, you should be able to show us 500 million euros in tax regularization – or repatriate them by saying that they are declared – and simply offshore – and thus escape anti-money laundering mechanisms. They would therefore place their assets in bank accounts or in financial products which are supposed to bring back a personal allowance. However, there is no significant change in the revenue of the household discount. You mention that you have raised the expense of furniture and that in doing so you have caused a loss of tax revenue, a bit like for excise duties. You say that the international environment is constantly evolving. This has always been the case with respect to financial revenues. This does not explain why the new income that would be generated by these massively returned assets in Belgium would not be reflected in the income from personal income. I am placing myself within your hypothesis and I am trying to demonstrate that this hypothesis is not impracticable. On the contrary, it is questionable. It is a question of investing elsewhere, particularly in the quality of the device: would it still contain certain flaws in which people are engulfed? Irrespective of these flaws, have people not organized themselves to move their assets from their offshore structure into financial products that are exempt from the Cayman tax? That is what needs to be checked. The tax on securities accounts was barely voted, as we could read the possibility of escaping it in a whole series of magazines. I have nothing against tax lawyers, but they're not going to explain how they're going to escape the taxes you put in place. By doing so, they would risk losing much of their clientele. I would, however, be much more careful with regard to this argument of authority that seeks the advice of tax lawyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u38	The question remains, Minister, whether the next budget should provide revenue for this separate caiman tax. After all, you say that it is in other things and it would be better to estimate what it can mean in other posts. After all, that discussion will continue to haunt us. The intention is good and perhaps it is also efficient, it has been discouraging and there are international developments that cause people to let their money flow back to Belgium, to pay the normal taxes here. The Cayman tax is not a separate item in the budget, but in the table relating to the financing of the tax reduction, there is a Cayman tax in proportion to 500 million. I wouldn't do that anymore. That's my personal idea. After what has happened, it is no longer credible. But we need to look at that in detail in committee. It's definitely worth a discussion. It is about the credibility of the proceeds of a number of taxes. There are others, like the securities tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u39	Minister, I was very happy to change the order of questions, because it was a very interesting discussion with arguments in all directions. Very interesting for the political debate. As you know, with CD&V, we are very fond of the broad school. Of course, it is not always obvious for school boards, boards, committed people or associations who wish to use the school to comply with the regulations. There is a circular number about a lot of regulations, including VAT. 2018/C/6 published replacing the previous administrative decision on the reduced VAT rate of 6% for school buildings. Paragraph 14 refers to boarding schools, in particular: "Insofar as they concern boarding schools (the institution) which have been added to schools or universities or which depend on them are exempt under Article 44, § 2, 4°, a, of the VAT Code, the transactions referred to in point 1 may be subject to the VAT rate of 6%. Where the boarding houses are not exempted under Article 44, it shall be noted that the application of a reduced rate of VAT is still possible but under headings XXXI and XXXVIII of Table A of the Annex or Section X of Table B of the Annex, respectively." The point is that reference is made to the associated boarding schools. What is the status of the unrelated boarding schools? I think, Minister, this is more hybrid than it used to be. One works with school communities, one makes boarding school available to different schools, some are a piece of care campus for the non-solar part and so on. What is a linked and unrelated boarding school from the point of view of VAT regulation? It would be very good if you could dot the i on point 14 of the circular. Should we conclude from this that the reduced VAT for school buildings applies only to connected boarding schools and not to unrelated boarding schools. How does the Minister see this? How should practice deal with this? I am, of course, in favour of this, and I would like to put it straight to the question that a broad interpretation is being given to the concept of 'connected boarding'. Otherwise, I think it will be very difficult to get out in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u40	Mr Deseyn, I would just like to make it clear which school buildings can benefit from the reduced VAT rate. These are residences consisting of rooms that are rented out to the students of an educational institution by either the school or the university itself or by one of its dependent legal entities. The latter is intended to be a legal person established by the educational institution for budgetary or organisational reasons. If those residences are rented directly by third parties, private investors, to students, this condition is not met and the reduced VAT rate for school buildings does not apply. Where appropriate, another reduced rate may apply. This will be clarified by the administration in a new administrative commentary, which is already being prepared. In any event, the strict application of the condition is included in Decision No. E.T.123.824 of 25 June 2014 on the provision of household care to guests, students or students does not take into account the current circumstances in which universities or schools normally make accommodation available to students or students. I therefore confirm that this condition must no longer be met in order to be able to speak of boarding school.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. You say that the boarding school must have been set up by a legal entity dependent on it. That's one of the conditions. Of course, that is often a problem. Especially in the context of fusion operations, we are dealing with a mess of new school boards and non-profit organisations. Some have an exclusive purpose and not really legally depend on each other, only in organisational practice. That's gonna be a bit of a problem. I believe that the interpretation is interesting, but the interpretation of these definitions is sometimes blocked. As far as the criterion "founded by the institution' is concerned, if it is a separate legal person who is also going to serve a wider school area, then the definition is not strictly met but one is directly concerned with providing accommodation and with a real boarding function for one's own students or pupils. That is a very special point of attention. It is good that I can give you this today, as there is an administrative comment in preparation. Especially when it comes to issues raised here in committee, it would be a good thing if we could get the circulars that have been announced, which actually contain the answer to the question, sent immediately. That might avoid some search work and perhaps a more important aspect for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u42	Minister, in order to continue to exist, more and more school boards are merging, including to generate economies of scale and to remain able to cope with the difficult financial situation. This merger wave is in line with the policy of the Flemish Minister of Education, which focuses on school boards of at least two thousand pupils. However, mergers, especially in the free-subsidised education sector, are discouraged. Non-profit organisations with less than EUR 25 000 in annual VAT-related activities may apply for the exemption for small enterprises. By merging, non-profit organisations in education are more likely to reach that limit of EUR 25 000. They will then be subject to mixed VAT. They will then face non-significant compliance costs in the field of VAT administration. However, revenue for the government remains limited because the VAT exemption still applies to the educational activity. This is all the more true because free-subsidised education becomes a mixed VAT liability from the moment the whole of VAT-related activities are combined for the assessment at the border of EUR 25 000, while public law institutions such as Community education are allowed to carry out the assessment separately by activity. There is therefore a great deal of differentiation in the educational landscape, depending on whether the institution is the Community or a free school administration. In addition, the limitation to four events per year on the VAT exemption for fundraising constitutes an additional barrier to merging. When I prepared the question and discussed the issues with people, I found that very fascinating: four events per year for a VAT exemption. What's that? An info night, a parent's night, a school party, a briefing on a camp, a fundraising activity? They quickly attend four events a year, especially at large non-profit organisations in education which often have different locations. Four is a very low figure. A school with more than four locations is already common and will be even more frequent as a result of merger operations. VAT-free high school parties, VAT-free pancakes sales and the VAT-free school stage performance are therefore in the throes. After all, if each of the four schools does so, there are already twelve events. It cannot be the intention that non-profit organisations should be obliged to organise a major school festival for tax reasons, where local anchoring is lost in the neighborhood. I do not think you are in favour of such a policy. Someone who wants to conform to the maximum and wants the school party to pay something for the school's operation does ask such tax-technical questions. That is why the following questions are on the agenda. Mr Minister, can you clarify whether the EUR 25 000 limit for free-subsidised education can also be assessed by activity, as in the case of public law institutions? Minister Coens spoke at the time about setting the bar on the spot, but here the tax bar is very uneven. If not, is this not about distortion of competition, if we are allowed to talk about competition? This is not about a free market, it is about education that needs to be provided. It would be a good thing that the principle of fiscal neutrality should also be respected here and that these practices in the educational landscape should be brought into line with that principle. Can you explain whether you agree to view the VAT exemption for fundraising in educational mergers per location rather than per large, comprehensive entity? If this is not the case, we will also wonder why.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u43	Your first question is very technical in nature and relates in fact to two different legal provisions: on the one hand, the non-taxation of bodies governed by public law, referred to in Article 6 of the VAT Code and, on the other hand, the exemption scheme envisaged in Article 56a of the VAT Code. Where public education institutions such as municipal schools carry out activities other than the provision of exempted education services, they are not, in principle, regarded as taxable persons within the meaning of the VAT Code for such activities. However, the Code provides that these institutions shall nevertheless be regarded as taxable persons in respect of the activities expressly listed in Article 6 of the Code, or more generally, for other activities likely to cause distortion of competition. The VAT Code provides that both exceptional cases apply to the principle of non-taxation of public bodies only if the activities are "not insignificant'. To define that concept, the administration assumes that there is no tax obligation under public law schools for activities other than the provision of exempted education where the turnover of the activity does not exceed the threshold of EUR 25 000 per calendar year. Moreover, this threshold is not absolute and there is certainly a margin of discretion. For a more precise explanation, I refer to the administrative circular No. 42/2015 of 10 December 2015. However, educational establishments belonging to freely subsidised education are always regarded as taxable persons for their regular activities, which may or may not be exempt. This distinction arises ipso facto from the VAT Lawbook and also from the VAT Directives. The examination of whether or not a body governed by public law carries out activities of more than insignificant size cannot, of course, be expected to apply the exemption rule provided for in Article 56a of the VAT Lawbook for small enterprises. This VAT exemption scheme relieves the company with an overall turnover not exceeding EUR 25 000 in Belgium for a large part of the obligations normally imposed on taxable persons. Therefore, the company should not charge VAT to its customers and should not submit periodic VAT returns. On the other hand, they may under no circumstances deduct VAT which they have paid as input tax to their suppliers. Institutions, whatever their legal form, whose services are exempt under Article 44 of the VAT Code, which also engage in transactions not covered by the exemption and for which they are to be considered as taxable persons for VAT purposes, may benefit from the VAT exemption scheme for small enterprises in respect of such supplies of goods and services if the overall turnover achieved in Belgium does not exceed EUR 25 000. Moreover, certain activities are excluded from the calculation of this turnover threshold, such as those exempted under Article 44. This concerns the application of two different legislations which co-exist with their own conditions. These are therefore not contrary to the principle of fiscal neutrality in VAT. I come to your second question. Where an educational institution whose services are exempted organises an event of an occasional nature in order to obtain aid for its exempted educational activities or for the purpose of charity, without distorting competition with other organisers performing similar activities, the transactions carried out therein shall not be subject to VAT. The administration assumes that there is no distortion of competition in any way if the event to obtain financial support is organised at most four times per calendar year. In addition, an event lasting up to three consecutive days is considered to be only one event. In the case of an educational establishment with different locations, the administration already accepts that the threshold of four events per year must be assessed by establishment and not by the global entity. But even if this fundraising is organised more than four times per calendar year, this does not mean that the exemption automatically lapses. The educational institution can always contact the competent administrative services, who, in consultation with the persons concerned and having taken note of the facts, will check on a case-by-case basis whether or not there is distortion of competition. Moreover, it does not take into account what is called an accidental overrun.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for this clarification. I note that you and your administration support the slopes that a certain pragmatism needs to be shown, and that we are not supposed to get everything out of them under the current regulations. I can see that it is a bit laval between the European directives to determine how far exemptions can go, given the specificity of education as organized in our country. As far as the EUR 25 000 is concerned, the amount is not absolute, but above all in the case of persons governed by public law. Otherwise, the limit to free education is, I understand. I don't know if that line can be raised. Of course, it is a fairly modest amount. It is very important for practice to say that the scheme applies per location. The schools don't know that. Fortunately, they want to comply with the law as much as possible and then report on administrative problems. They are not aware of the administrative practices. You reach out to the school boards. You say that they can give a signal to the administration and that dialogue is always possible in order to obtain clarification or to obtain a qualification of the activities. It would be a good thing for the domes to draw the maximum attention of the school authorities to ensure that there is no activity and that people's commitment is not lost. This is a technical regulation. You gave an answer which certainly deserves further analysis. We must continue to look at whether there are any practical problems that the school authorities can overcome, but I believe that with the margins of tolerance you have indicated, it is possible to do so. Maybe more than many school boards have suspected until today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u45	Minister, this question is very much in line with the previous one. The VAT rules on financial support have recently been clarified. You also mentioned Article 44, § 2, 12° of the VAT Lawbook, which was amended a while ago. The Circular 2017/C/23 further clarified its scope. Also here are school parties, mussel festivals, pancake sales and stage performances, the proceeds of which are used for exempt activities or for a good cause. Participation in initiatives such as the Hottest Week is thus also covered by the rules set out below. Article 44, § 2, 12° of the VAT Code allows that VAT exempt institutions or organisations may also be exempted under certain conditions from the levying of VAT for activities with which they acquire financial support. In order to be exempt from VAT, the fundraising must meet the following three conditions at the same time. Firstly, it must be organised by the exempted educational institution itself. Second of all, she has to be occasional. Thirdly, it must not distort competition. As regards the second condition, the occasional nature is limited to four events per year. We have just had an exchange of views on this. This includes actions for charity, even though they are not organised for the financing of their own activities as an institution or organisation. The latter means that organisations, if they want to help their fellow human beings, if I may express it so caritatively, will be used in their organisation by charging for these actions and are actually obliged to only organise fundraising for their own funding. I'm talking about those four. You have just clarified what may or may not be covered, but it seems to be part of administrative practice. Take school boards, for example. In the educational project of many schools, initiatives in which students engage in charity take a prominent place. I am thinking here of initiatives in the fields of development cooperation, poverty reduction, the various societies and the environment or, to make it more concrete, Music for Life, the Warmest Week, a streetwalk for Brotherly Sharing, Peace Islands and so on. The possibility for pupils to participate in charities is affected if schools become obliged to apply the VAT rules when developing such initiatives. That can only lead to an impoverishment of school life. Mr Minister, we were just talking about initiatives and funds for the school, and this question is specifically about occasional fundraising for third-party organisations, mostly charitable organisations or projects. In your view, is it really intended that organisations and institutions should be obliged to rely on their fundraising for charities on their number of possible fundraisings for their own funding per year? If so, does it not lack the solidarity of these organisations with regard to relevant social problems that require the necessary attention and resources? In your opinion, is it not better not to include such a fundraising for charities in the assessment of the occasional nature of the fundraising under the institution or organisation and, in fact, to declare that this can always be regarded as an exempt VAT activity? Part of the answer was already mentioned in the answer to the previous question. It would be a good thing, however, if ex-ante were to say that this is outside the quota of the four activities, so that we should not enter into dialogue on this issue. That is what we are encouraging so that we do not have to worry about it. Of course, this question did not just fall out of the sky. Some schools have already experienced problems in this area. That leads to a lot of wasted energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u46	Mr Deseyn, as you said yourself, this answer partly overlaps with that of the previous question. However, it does not seem bad to give the answer here exhaustively. I know that certain paragraphs will sound very similar. The revenue of occasional fundraising by certain institutions or associations referred to in Article 44 of the VAT Code shall be exempt from VAT under the statutory provisions if the following three conditions are met cumulatively. Firstly, the activity must be organised by the institution or association itself. Secondly, the proceeds of the activity should only benefit the institution or association. Thirdly, the activity should not distort competition compared to other economic operators carrying out similar activities. As regards the second condition, I have already stated in my reply to a question of 6 May 2015 that, notwithstanding the national and European VAT provisions, this exemption also applies if the proceeds are not for the benefit of the institution or association itself but are used for the financial support of a good cause. I would point out that previously support activities for a good cause were outside the scope of the VAT exemption in question. Now that is no longer the case. My administration then described the concept of "good purpose" in very broad terms in circular 2017/C/23 of 19 May 2017. A charity is defined as "any institution, association, fund or natural person engaged in a project or work in the field of health, well-being, culture, nature, environment or international aid without commercial purpose." It is not necessary to recognise the beneficiary of the funds collected. For the third condition, the fundraising should be occasional in nature and should not give rise to any distortion of competition. There was a great deal of uncertainty in practice about the implementation of this condition for a long time. After all, how many activities can be organised so that there is no distortion of competition? Once a week, once a month or once a year? Is there a maximum turnover that can be achieved? In order to remove that uncertainty, I asked the administration to lay down clear rules of the game. I refer once again to the circular I mentioned earlier, No. 2017/C/23. First, the turnover realised as a result of the event is of no importance to assess this condition. My administration also assumes that there is no distortion of competition in any way if the fundraising is organised at most four times per calendar year. Moreover, an event that lasts up to three consecutive days, as I have just said, is considered as only one event. Even if the fundraising is organised more than four times per calendar year, this does not, of course, mean that the exemption will expire. The institution may always contact the competent departments of the administration, which will then enter into consultation with the person concerned and, after having taken note of all the factual elements, check on a case-by-case basis whether or not there is distortion of competition. I am therefore convinced that through this extremely flexible application of the VAT exemption, we have done everything possible to encourage institutions and associations to organise events to support the cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u47	Minister, the conclusion is very positive. There is no reason from a VAT perspective not to organise activities. You even encourage them, which is a very positive thing. I'd like to give you one more thing, Minister. The schools do not already employ psychologists or logopedists for their core business, let alone have a lawyer who can figure all this out. Of course, the domes must play a role in this. I have not checked, but perhaps you can provide a sectoral communication for education on the website. Perhaps these circulars can also be translated at regular intervals or bundled into a cahier for the schools. Those questions bubbly all the time. They're all taken care of. I believe that it will be a difficult task if the directors have to take all of it. This can also be communicated at the level of the domes. It would be a good thing that there would be a customer friendly attitude and that this information would be pushed, as it is extremely relevant for the day-to-day operation of the schools. The bottomline is very positive: schools can organise events without VAT concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u48	Minister, I know that this question about this regulation and its evaluation is coming soon, but a quarter has already passed. Since 1 January 2018, this new scheme has been in force and companies have the opportunity to award part of their profits as a bonus to their employees in a much simpler way. The employer may grant an identical profit premium to all employees through a decision of the general meeting or a categorized contribution to a part of the employees through an undertaking-cao or an Act of Accession. In order to assess the success of this measure, I would like to ask how many companies paid an identical profit premium to their employees in this first quarter after the introduction of this measure. How many employees were paid such a premium? In the first quarter following the introduction of this measure, how many companies paid a categorized profit premium to their employees? How many employees were paid such a premium? How do you evaluate the introduction and the first months of the possibility of introducing a profit premium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u49	Ms Smaers, you yourself explained that this measure started on 1 January 2018. So it's very early day. In view of the fact that no separate heading for this profit premium has been included in the farm levy declaration, the administration does not yet have any figures that allow a more concrete assessment of the impact of the measure and therefore to answer most of your very specific and specific questions. Since the measure has only been in force since 1 January of this year, its first impact will be reflected in the collections we will see for the 2019 attack year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u50	Mrs. Smaers, do you have the numbers now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u51	Mr President, no, not at all. Mr. Secretary, I could only try. In connection with the first attack, it is regrettable that a separate section has not been provided for to extract the information. I do not want to add any more objections to the declarations or make them more difficult or complex, but I wonder if we have just had the debate on the Cayman tax on whether there is any possibility of information gathering via statistics. The citizen does not need a more complex declaration. But it can't be watched, can it? I don't know if it's possible. For example, we could much more quickly assess certain new measures on their financial and fiscal merits or non-merites. I think this can be very useful for policy work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u52	Minister, the Royal Decree of 14 December 2015 inserted a heading "School buildings" in the table annexed to Royal Decree No. 20, so that since 1 January 2016, work on school buildings is subject to the reduced VAT rate of 6%, which is obviously an excellent thing. As a result, amendments were made to extend the reduced VAT rate of 6% for school buildings to Centra voor Leerlingenbegeleiding in Flanders (CLB) and to PMS centres in the French Community. The psycho-medical-social centres and the student guidance centres are assigned to the supervision of pupils from the point of view of health, well-being and guidance, starting from the nursery school. Therefore, these schools must also be able to benefit from the reduced VAT rate for the same operations as those relating to school buildings. CLBs perform both PMS and PSE (health promotion at school) missions. PMS centres, both subsidized and organised by the French Community, also benefit from the reduced rate. The latter, the PMS centres organised by the French Community, fulfil both the PMS missions and the health promotion missions at school. On the other hand, only health promotion services at school for subsidized education, not organised by the Community, cannot benefit from the reduced rate of 6%. However, like the others, they are included within the scope of article 24 of the Constitution, which deals with education. There is therefore inequality of treatment between these actors within the scope of education. Minister, can this amendment be interpreted to extend the 6% reduced VAT rate to BLCs and CMSs as being also in favour of school health promotion services? Why has this not been incorporated directly into the Royal Decree amending Royal Decree No. 20 fixing the rates of value added tax and determining the distribution of goods and services according to these rates in respect of buildings intended for the supervision of pupils? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u53	Mr Dispa, in accordance with item XL of the table in the annex to Royal Decree No 20, the reduced rate of 6% applies in particular to deliveries of buildings intended for PMS centres exempted under the Code, as well as to certain real estate works carried out on these buildings. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation, formerly the French Community, adopted in 2001 and 2002 two decrees reorganising school medicine. The tasks contained in these new decrees are carried out by the school health promotion services, abbreviated the PSE services for subsidized education and by the PMS services for schools under the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. After examining the problem and in the interests of fiscal neutrality, I accept that the reduced rates referred to in the above-mentioned heading may also apply to buildings intended for use by PSE services in the context of their mission of promoting health at school.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u54	Minister, this answer seems to me to be totally satisfactory. Thank you for removing the misunderstanding that still existed in the sector. Your answer is quite clear. Equal treatment is thus guaranteed, which I think is an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u55	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn's 24868 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u56	Minister, this is an interesting legal and technical matter. We have already asked some questions about this. In reply to a previous question, you stated that the notice of formal notice could be validly lodged together with the statement of objection or the request for automatic waiver, although you did not consider such a notice to have effect until the time limit for repayment expired. You justify that by stating that a notice of default means a delay in the implementation of a commitment. It can be assumed that, as long as there is no delay in reimbursement, for example after the statement of objection, there will be no grounds for a notice of formal notice, so that the notice of formal notice given before can only be effective if there is an actual delay in payment. With that answer, you do not really choose one or the other, but you seem to try to reconcile both points of reference, as I mentioned in my previous question. However, a clear choice is made in the Civil Code. According to Article 1153, interest is payable there from the day of the letter of formal notice to payment and therefore from the day on which the tax is late. You are right when you say that there can be moratorium interests only if there is a delay in the implementation of the undertaking, but should we not interpret that rule in the context of the refund of taxes in such a way that there is a delay in the repayment of the debt when the taxpayer claims repayment by means of an objection? In the light of the objective of bringing regulations closer into line with the provisions of the Civil Code, it does not seem to me a bad idea to interpret the starting point for moratorium interests in the same way. In my view, this would improve legal certainty for the taxpayer. The question comes down to a search for clarity and an answer to the questions of exactly how everything is done and whether the legal and technical objectives of the legislation are met to the maximum. In any case, this would certainly benefit legal certainty, because the new rule is likely to create a lot of discussion between the administration and the taxpayer. These are substantive or fundamental issues, including limited amounts. I would like to anticipate the battles by properly framing, understanding and indicating every pass of the legislation adopted. In this way we can save ourselves a lot of discussions, not the least discussions with the tax administration. Mr Minister, can you confirm that there is always a delay in the implementation of the undertaking when the taxpayer requires a refund of overpaid taxes through an objection, so that the moratorium interests begin to run, as set out in the example in the explanatory memorandum on page 119? Can you confirm the same with regard to the requests for automatic exemption? If no, can a decision be made on the timing of the delay in the implementation of the undertaking?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u57	Mr Deseyn, there is a delay in the implementation of a commitment once the time limit for repayment has expired. In general, an objection or an application for automatic exemption will give rise to the granting of moratorium interests, in so far as the repayment period of the initial assessment has expired and the taxable person requests the payment of the interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u58	Minister, it is important to return to the original attack. One is going to look at the original attack and then one can call in all kinds of defenses. In the event of a delay, once the deadline has expired, there is no interruption or suspension, but the moratorium interests must begin to run. That's how I interpret the rule. We must try to identify the consequences of this. Hopefully there will be no new questions, otherwise I may have to return to them in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u59	Mr Minister, everyone here has argued for a firm caiman tax. When I have to explain that plastic in the field, I often use the image of a caiman who swims around and bites everywhere where there is something interesting, but he needs to get good teeth and see what to eat. We have expanded the Cayman tax considerably, which was necessary to address the various problems and possibilities of application. That was explained this afternoon. It was also agreed within the government, which was confirmed in committee during the discussion of the programme law, to amend the existing EEA list in order to bring private collective management institutions into the scope of the Cayman tax. That kind of construction uses a stock exchange quotation to escape the caiman tax. However, the objective of the law and the KB has always been to bring them under, but there are doubts about this in view of the wording of the law and the KB. So far we have not been allowed to receive an update from the KB. However, an update is highly desirable, given the practice. After the many discussions about this, perhaps one can say how close one is to 500 million. However, if we build in guarantees and update, we will have more chances of success. We must not talk about success, because I understand from your explanatory statement, Minister, that it was not the intention, first of all, to create separate lines for this. The practice is to deal with money that is hidden, that cannot be taxed or that is too easy under tax evasion, with a new KB. What is the status of the yard of the new KB? Will a new EEA list be drawn up and published, which will include, for example, private collective management institutions, such as Luxembourg's sicaves, and which will also fall within the scope of the Cayman tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u60	Mr Deseyn, I can confirm that there is still a lot of work to be done on the new KB, which you are also referring to. That draft will be discussed in the government shortly. As soon as the government has agreed to the draft, this will of course go to the Council of State for its opinion and, if necessary, the necessary changes or adjustments will be made in the light of this opinion. The decision will then be submitted for signature to the Head of State and published in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u61	Minister, it's a good thing we're working. With this question we are right in terms of timing because we can identify a number of concerns. In fact, it would not be a bad thing for such important matters, which give concrete substance to this legislation, to hold a discussion or exchange of views on the draft KB. I will ask all sorts of interesting questions about it later, but it would be a pity about the perimeter or the elaboration of the KB to go to a repair law, a new legal basis, another KB or an adjustment. It affects all groups and we have invested a lot of time and energy in it with the committees of inquiry. I am counting on a very strong KB that removes all these concerns, but consultation would be desirable. It's not just a failure divers. It is also very topical. It does not exist within the legislative procedure, but the preliminary draft could be submitted to the relevant committee for input. That might be interesting for the solidity of the Royal Decree. This should not trigger new songs and political quarrels. We have the collective commitment to overcome and counter these structures, if they involve tax abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u62	Mr Deseyn, I would ask you to put together your four questions, since they are on the same subject and are put together on the agenda, and to keep it brief, in view of our agenda and so that other Members present can also put their oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u63	Mr President, I have already converted some of my oral questions into written questions, and I am doing so with some of the other questions I have raised. In that sense, I do not think I am taking advantage of the speaking time. Minister, the various groups are currently working on legislative proposals relating to the tax shelter. In order to make a good evaluation, my questions are more than ever on the agenda. The extension of the tax shelter to the performing arts is more than one year, but the practice raises a lot of questions and concerns. Moreover, this overlaps community matter, because initiatives have also been taken in the Flemish Parliament in relation to the tax shelter and its implementation. The sector rightly requires legal certainty, and I believe that it must always be our political commitment to provide it. That is why I would like to focus on the following points. Foreign stage artists can be employed in Belgium under the freeing company tax scheme of 18%. The FPS Finance states that this does not fulfil the requirement in the law that qualifying expenses should be taxed at the normal rate. The question is, however, whether that interpretation is correct and whether that 18 %-delivering withholding tax should indeed be considered as the normal rate of personal income tax for that category of workers. I understand that the administration is even going a step further, but I do not think it is in the right direction, because it seems that the administration is not even going to accept the wage costs of foreign workers employed here under the same corporate tax system as Belgian workers. In my opinion, this is a little too much of the rigorous, especially if that group of employees receives as much corporate tax as Belgian workers. However, they shall be accepted if the additional condition of effective submission of the GNI declaration is met. In practice, I am told that this condition cannot be verified by the production company. Can you clarify, Mr Minister, whether the 18 per cent exemption is met by the requirement in the law that qualifying expenditure should be taxed at the normal rate? The more the question arises as to what is normal. Can you explain whether the imposition of the additional condition for the effective submission of the GNI declaration is in line with the law and its ratio legis, especially in situations where foreign workers are subject to the same corporate tax as their Belgian colleagues? Can your answer be included in the long-awaited frequently asked questions about the tax shelter for performing arts? I would also like to mention the rule that costs can still be regarded as qualifying expenditure up to 30 days after the premiere. Article 194ter/1, § 2, 1°, second indent, clearly states that it may be taken into account, in particular "for production and operating expenses incurred in Belgium not later than one month after the premiere'. I will not quote from the explanatory memorandum of the law. Everything is in the explanatory statement to the question, but the rule was also confirmed in the discussion of the draft law. It therefore seems very clear to me that the legislator's intention was to consider all costs associated with the production and operation of stage works as qualifying costs up to 30 days after the premiere. I wonder why the FPS Finances are restricting and refusing this measure so strongly, especially in view of the Minister's explanatory statement, discussion and answers. In several cases, certain costs, such as personnel costs of actors and technicians and insurance costs, are considered acceptable and other costs, such as transport and transport costs, are not. That cannot be understood from the reality of performing arts production. It is impossible to play performances without setting, sound and light and without transporting those material pieces. The necessary production staff and all indirect costs are also inextricably linked to the performances. It's either one or the other. If the sector is to be met, the rules cannot be interpreted in such a way that nothing is actually done. The FPS Finance holds the view that there would only be qualifying expenses for actors and technical staff. That's really beyond comprehension. Are you aware of the attitude of the Tax Shelter cell? What is your reaction to this, especially in the light of the explanatory memorandum of the law? How do you interpret the 30 day rule? Is there a margin of tolerance or is that rule strictly applied? When it comes to accepting or not accepting costs, I dare even speak of arbitrariness because there is not really a line in it. The law clearly states that, among other things, transport costs, accommodation of actors and other staff up to 25% of total labour costs and transport costs relating to light, noise and decor should be considered as qualifying expenditure. Can you explain why the administration doesn't always do that? That rule should also take place within the FAQ Tax Shelter Stage Arts, but it is important that he is discussed with the administration and that clear wine is served. I come to another subcluster, namely the list of expenses. This is very closely in line with what I have outlined here. It's about Article 194ter/1. I have received signals that this list is also being used very restrictively. This creates a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty. We are talking about illogical decisions in the field, but I think that is said because we do not understand what the rules are. If a strict interpretation of the law is applied, I think it is based on not fully understanding what is actually a stage art production process and making too much abstraction of the diversity and complexity that characterizes the stage art landscape. I think it should be acceptable, for example, that paper flyers are also a qualifying publication for the promotion of a stage work. I am strengthened in that conviction because it is so literal in the law. But a Facebook ad and an e-mail newsletter are not mentioned in the law, they were less at the time, but it would be a bit ridiculous to say that it only applies to expenses for paper ads. We have made the switch in many of the legislation. We have often come to a level playing field; even when it comes to legal acts, we do not distinguish between the paper and the digital version. For qualifying expenses to promote a stage piece, it would be a bit ridiculous if we did. Mr Minister, do you confirm that the definition of qualifying expenditure in Article 194ter/1, § 3 is exhaustive or not? What would be the justification for this? In connection with those advertisements, do you agree that an email newsletter can also be classified as a qualifying issue and that this should also be included in the frequently asked questions? I have tabled a separate question with regard to those FAQs. How come the FAQ is still not available? I notice that no FAQ has yet been published about this measure despite the many practical questions to do so. Only in relation to audiovisual works is there the necessary explanation from the administration about how the tax shelter should be applied. Is the FAQ in format? Is there any consultation with the Communities or with the arts? What's the timing of that? What's the reason for the delay? Will this then provide the necessary legal certainty for all the different questions? So much for my questions about the tax shelter in the performing arts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u64	Except for one theme, the FAQ is now ready and will be published in the near future. Among other things, the 30-day rule will be explained in detail in all its modalities and certainly with concrete answers to the questions you have asked. Only in relation to the issue of the company tax is there still an investigation and there is still consultation. We have decided to split the FAQ into two parts, in particular the last piece, which unfortunately will have to wait until the investigation is completed, and all the other elements including all the points you have touched. The list is therefore ready and will be published in the near future. I will insist that this happens as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u65	It's like the red thread this afternoon. Much is happening, but we still have to be patient, waiting for a KB or for a circular or another administrative letter. With regard to the ongoing research on the company levy, I can imagine that it is not such a complex study. According to regular legislation, this is indeed the percentage of the company's withholding tax. We can consider that normal, otherwise we can consider it qualifying costs. In light of all the more complex discussions we've had this afternoon, it didn't seem to me to be that complex right now. As long as one realizes that these are discussions that do not benefit artistic creations and productions. It was just the intention of the tax shelter for performing arts to do something extra for that. That certainly won't make the difference in totality. In the big pot of tax spending, we are talking here about a very marginal cost. I therefore hope that we will not have to wait too long and that Part 2 of the FAQ will soon be published.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u66	Mr Minister, with this question it is somewhat different from with the other questions: on the subject it has already been communicated that it is moving in the right direction, even before the question was asked. It is important that we make a few points here and that we get an insight into the latest state of affairs. I understand very well, Minister, that in practice the strict payment plan, as it was in force since the 2016 circular, is no longer applicable. We were told that in hundreds of cases people who could not pay their taxes on time could not be heard by the tax authorities and that the strict deadline for payments applied for a year or two was indeed causing damage. Hopefully that won't be for long. To date, people with a plan of more than 12 months of walking have been reportedly sent. Those people were either sent to the OCMW or to a lawyer. According to the tax authorities, they were best placed to enter into a collective debt regime. That would be included in the circular. However, this method is very far-reaching for those concerned. In addition, it gives less to the Treasury than when an ordinary instalment is agreed. MyTrustO, an organisation that organises a kind of alternative recovery, with a high success rate for the creditor, talks about thousands of files throughout Belgium. The Tax Mediation Service agrees with the complaints. At the beginning of February, you indicated that the payment period of 12 months should not be strictly applied. You then created a political opening, which is a very positive issue for the handling of dossiers. I believe, of course, that every debt must be paid in the end. That's always the starting point. We must not give false hope to those concerned as if they were given a clear lead for additional credit openings. But the problem of debt is so complex that we have to dare to say that some options on pay-off only increase the problem. With a little sense of pragmatism and casuism, we help not only the taxpayers but also the treasury. The question is what is the solution for the future? I understand that it has already been worked out and instructed to the officials concerned. It would be good if we could hear a little more about this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u67	Apparently, they don't start until a theme reaches the newspapers. What is being discussed here in Parliament often has little effect. I've been worried about that for a while. So one suddenly shot into action, after a whole fuss arose after the appearance of a personal story in Het Laatste Nieuws. In February last year, Mr Van Cauter also asked you a question about the payment period of 12 months. You replied the following. "There is therefore absolutely no intention to apply the 12-month period without consideration and blindly." You recently repeated that answer. In the meantime, however, we have been able to look at the internal directive, which is yours. It contains something completely different from what you have said in this House. It says: "A debt must have been paid within 12 months of its onset or all possible recovery measures must have been taken. The granting of a payment plan should not conflict with these objectives." A little further, I read: "So we no longer allow long-term payment plans. They do not provide a structural solution to financial problems. In your internal directive, therefore, you say that a payment period of 12 months is the absolute limit, which does not allow derogations. There is something else you are going to say in Parliament. The same is also apparent from the application form at the time, in which one is also very strict: a period of 12 months and no longer. If we raise a problem in Parliament, it will be swept away. When the story gets in the press, people act. I am glad that the Minister and the administration have taken action in the meantime. If I have understood correctly, a new directive would apply in the meantime. My question is very simple, Minister. Can we have access to the new administrative directive, which apparently refers to five years? After all the commotion, it is clear that the debt industry is now creating an important social problem. It is therefore very important how public administrations deal with the debt problem of residents. How many payment plans with a deadline of more than 12 months were approved in 2017? Will you insist on allowing payment plans of more than 12 months? I assume that this has been included in the new directive in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u68	In 2017, 10 268 payment plans with a deadline of more than 12 months were approved. My administration has indeed drawn up concrete guidelines for the debtor's payment difficulties, also specifically for the payment plans. A short-term payment plan with the last payment to be executed within four months of the due date or in the medium term with the last payment to be made within 12 months of the due date can always be requested by myminfin.be, by email or via one of the administration's infocenters. The practice shows that the majority of payment plans, 97%, are applied for and granted for a maximum period of 12 months. When the debt cannot be paid within 12 months, the payment difficulties are usually not temporary but structural in nature. In such cases, after an examination of the file by the competent regional director, a longer-term payment plan may be granted. This may be granted in conjunction with an exemption from negligence interest or even part of the principal if the legal conditions are met. In this way, the administration strives to obtain a payment within a reasonable period of time. The directives essentially strike a good balance between the demand for equal treatment, the concern for citizens with structural payment difficulties and the core mission of the FPS Finance, namely the correct collection and recovery of taxes. The modalities on the basis of which the payment plans were granted by the administration have already been assessed on the basis of an analysis of the application of the existing Directives, which will result in an adjustment of the said Directives in order to ensure a correct balance between efficiency, on the one hand, and fairness, on the other. When the debtor has only debts with the FPS Finance, it always seeks a solution within the administrative measures already listed. Where the debtor also has debts with creditors other than the FPS Finance, my administration prefers to refer to a collective procedure on collective debt regulation. Support for the submission of such a procedure may be obtained from a recognised debt mediation institution. Such a procedure has the advantage of providing an overall solution to the debtor's financial difficulties and of treating the public and private creditors equally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u69	Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on this. Mr. Secretary, you also wanted to get rid of the right of grace. There are all kinds of arguments for this. However, sometimes these are distressing cases, because amending legislation, for example in the area of frontier work, is particularly detrimental to a small category of persons, even if those concerned have complied with maximum standards, such as workers working for public administration or a public hospital in France. For them, that meant a great human drama. We must be able to find a solution for these workers. It is good that there is another body that shows flexibility and allows longer payment plans, or even a waiver under the heading of fairness. I believe that this aspect fits in with the discussion. There must indeed be an ultimate body that can do something before great human dramas arise. It is a good thing that a system is applied more flexibly, for a limited percentage, and I believe that all parties benefit from shorter deadlines, if that is possible. If, however, that is impossible, I think it is right to opt for the least burdensome road, in the broad sense of the word, and the path of feasibility, fairness and correctness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u70	Minister, I have noted that 97% of the applications relate to a period of less than 12 months. You said that there were just over 10 000 files in 2017, with more than 12 months allocated. If I put these figures next to each other, I'm going to reach some 350 000 taxpayers with problems. This is quite a lot, isn't it? I'm even looking forward to it. I asked to be allowed to look at the internal directive. I take it that is not a problem and that can be delivered to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u71	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you. It was suggested to me, otherwise I would never end up here. The city of Peer was working on a system of bicycle-leasing and wanted to apply it to its own civil servants. It seems that there has been some uncertainty as to how the necessary deduction to finance the leasing was to be made, i.e. on gross wages or net wages. In the private sector this would not be a problem, there it would be on gross wages. In the public sector, this would be done on the net wage, eliminating the fiscal financial advantage. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u72	Mr Terwingen, in any case, the advantage resulting from the provision of a company bicycle, including accessories, maintenance and storage costs, which is actually used for commuting, is always totally exempt from tax. Since no tax advantage is taxed in such a case, there is also no tax reason to claim an own contribution to that advantage from the employee. If the employer nevertheless decides to allow the employee to contribute to the cost of his company bike, it is entirely in line with the employer's wage policy. The employer then decides how to do it. The tax rules do not require a deduction for employees in the private sector to be made different from that for employees in the public sector. There can therefore be absolutely no tax discrimination in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u73	Thank you, Minister, the answer is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u74	Minister, the disappearance of cash is a possibility that seems to be a reality. There is an increasing number of declarations to this effect. For example, the situation in Sweden is of particular concern. Using new online payment technologies or directly via their smartphones, Swedes use virtually more cash in their transactions, to the point that it seems that their company is accepting a jump to the "virtual whole". The reasons given for convincing the populations of the abandonment of cash are multiple. This would save money, as there would be no more money and banknote manufacturing costs. Tax fraud could also be combated more effectively. Finally, some justify this disappearance by saying that it is simply in the air of time. On the other hand, other experts say that following the path taken by the Swedes would be a serious mistake. The reason is simple: if this were to reduce manufacturing costs and combat fraud, it would be at the cost of a considerable reduction in freedom. All transactions would be recorded, supervision would be complete and the power of the banks would be absolute. This scenario is more than worrying and should attract the attention of all liberals, for whom individual freedom is an indispensable value in a democratic society. In the face of these elements, Minister, can you provide me with your analysis of this phenomenon? Do you share the fears of some experts and citizens, whom I relayed to you? Then how does this trend evolve? Do you see a craze for a planned disappearance of cash in the head of other European political and/or financial leaders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u75	Mr Flahaux, the place of cash in our societies is indeed the subject of topical debates. As you have just pointed out, Sweden is the country where the most radical turn in this area has been taken. From a general point of view, the challenges posed by a radical shift to fewer species are not to be underestimated. Indeed, among the elements to be taken into account, I will first mention the people's attachment to cash for their current transactions in the euro area but certainly also in Belgium. This is reflected in a recent study by the European Central Bank on the basis of observations made in 2016. For example, cash remains the main means of payment for consumers in euro area outlets, accounting for 79% of the number of payments and 54% of their value. Belgium holds an intermediate position with 63% and 32% respectively. Secondly, beyond habits or a possible lack of confidence in new technologies, this attachment also reflects problems of social inclusion. Third, in the event of a crisis in the financial system or a break in charges in electronic payment systems, cash can help to ensure a certain continuity of transactions. Beyond these issues, we must be aware that such a debate could not be conducted in Belgium without international coordination. In fact, legally, in the euro area, the status of cash is largely regulated at European level, so that the flexibility of the Member States is limited. With regard to the European Central Bank and the national central banks of the euro area, including, of course, the National Bank of Belgium, it may be noted that they have a neutral position regarding the use of cash rather than other means of payment to settle transactions, thus seeking neither to stimulate nor to discourage the use of cash. In this context, the evolution of the use of cash is simply seen as a process responding to a request in society. With regard to the reduction of the state budget, the reduction of seigneurial income for the Treasury remains a dimension not to be overlooked in the reflection on the place to be reserved for cash in our payment systems. Other considerations, however, are at stake, such as the fight against tax fraud, money laundering or the financing of terrorism, hence the very clear trend towards a reduction in the number and amounts allowed for cash transactions in favour of electronic transactions. Finally, at the dawn of a technological revolution of means of payment, such as the use of instant payment platforms, of blockchain technology, of the entry of new players such as the giant of online commerce Amazon, which has launched its own payment system without the introduction of bank details, we will not be able to save a deep reflection on the place that the cash will still have to occupy in our companies, as a means of payment, in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u76	Minister, thank you for your detailed and interesting answer. It is a subject that will become increasingly dominant and important in our societies. It is true that, while the fight against terrorism, as well as theft and bad actions, is an important element, the falsification of virtual money can, on the other hand, also take place. On the other hand, one of the main points that has always been made is that citizens are at risk of being even more registered. Recently, we have seen, with Facebook's problem, how well all our tastes can be known from the public square. Through shopping, you necessarily know the taste of people. There's also a risk on this side. In any case, thanks to the figures you have given, particularly with regard to Belgium, we can see that our country, without being at the stage of Sweden, is more in advance than the average of the European countries. This is an interesting issue both economically and philosophically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u77	Minister, prior to the sixth state reform, the Regions financed their regional tax policies through federal allocations. Since 2015, the regional PPI tax has been determined by a reduced levy of additional cents on state tax. The regional personal tax balance is added to the federal personal tax balance to determine a total tax amount that cannot be negative. The total tax obtained serves as the basis for calculating the additional municipal cents. Could you clarify, Minister, on what basis the PPI is calculated the tax increases imposed under section 444 of the Income Tax Code? Where one of the components of this base is a regional tax, how does the distribution of the amount of the increases mentioned on the taxpayer's notice-extract of role? I had attached a small example of calculation, which I am not going to read.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u78	Mr Piedboeuf, to the tax of natural persons, the total tax is the sum of the federal personal tax and the regional personal tax. The tax increases are calculated on the total tax owing on the portion of the unreported income. They are therefore calculated both on the federal personal tax and on the regional personal tax payable on the portion of the unreported income. Revenues from the regional additional tax on personal income tax accrue to the Regions. This revenue from the regional additional tax on personal tax includes the revenue from regional additional cents and regional tax increases less the cost of regional decreases, tax reductions and tax credits. The Special Financing Act, which determines the fiscal powers of the Regions and their financing, does not provide for the powers of the Regions in this area. Nor does it foresee that some of the tax increases are also allocated to the Regions. This is in line with the agreements reached in the negotiations on the sixth reform of the State. When determining the autonomy factor, determined on the basis of the means derived from the tax of natural persons which should be allocated to the Regions, no account was taken at any time of the effects of tax increases, fines or interest. Tax increases are a sanction mechanism and are, in principle, the result of control operations or specific findings. Only the federal authority is competent for the personal tax department. Given that the federal authority bears all the expenses associated with this tax service, a consensus has been reached that any revenue that would result from it should be left to the federal authority. The latter shall also bear all costs incurred in order to control and collect the tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u79	Mr. Minister, it's clear. This means that the federal government has an interest in regional fraud to collect additional revenues. This is obviously a joke. The answer is very technical, but it has the merit of clarifying my question about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u80	Minister, new forms, including the 275 CBC, have recently been added to the list of documents that may be required to accompany a corporate tax return. A Belgian constituent entity shall not be required to file with the Belgian income tax authority a country-by-country declaration for a reporting period if, not later than 12 months after the last day of that reporting period, the multinational group of which it is a constituent entity provides a country-by-country declaration for that reporting period through a parent entity that files the declaration with the tax authority of the jurisdiction of which it is a resident. To the extent that the additional transfer pricing reporting obligations have been communicated by a parent entity, what reporting obligations could still be imposed on the Belgian constituent entity in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u81	Mr Piedboeuf, in principle, where the parent entity of the multinational group of which the Belgian constituent entity is a member has filed a country-by-country declaration with the tax authority of the jurisdiction of which it is resident, the Belgian company must not file its own country-by-country declaration. This could, however, be different in the cases provided for in Article 321/2 of the CIR, i.e. if the ultimate parent entity of the multinational group is not required to file a country-by-country declaration in the jurisdiction of which it is a resident for tax purposes; if, not later than 12 months after the last day of the reporting period, the court of which the ultimate parent entity is a resident for tax purposes does not have an eligible agreement between the competent authorities in force to which Belgium is a party; if the Belgian administration competent for the assessment of income taxes has informed the Belgian constituent entity of a systematic failure on the part of the court of which the ultimate parent entity is a resident for tax purposes. The filing of the country-by-country declaration is not the only complementary reporting obligation with respect to transfer prices. Other obligations are required, even when the Belgian entity is not required to file a country-by-country declaration. Pursuant to Article 321/3 of the CIR, the Belgian constituent entity of a multinational group that is required to submit a country-by-country declaration should notify the competent income tax authority annually, via Form 275 CBC NOT, whether it falls under one of the three cases where the filing of the country-by-country declaration is its responsibility as the ultimate parent entity, the surrogate parent entity or the constituent entity in accordance with that Article 321. If this is not the case, it should indicate the identity of the ultimate parent entity or, where applicable, the identity of the surrogate parent entity, as well as the jurisdiction of which that entity is a tax resident. Pursuant to Article 321/4 of the CIR, the Belgian constituent entity of a multinational group should file an annual declaration 275 MF when it reaches a certain threshold, either of operating and financial income or of total balance sheet or of staff employed. Pursuant to Article 321/5 of the CIR, the Belgian constituent entity of a multinational group should attach annually to its declaration a declaration 275 LF where one of the above thresholds is exceeded. The scope of this report varies depending on the amount of cross-border transactions with other entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u82	Minister, it's almost an inventory of all the documents you need to attach, but it's accurate. It's a technical question. Your answer answers my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 24997 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u84	Minister, there has been a great deal to be done recently about the links between Practicali and your cabinet. The bottom line is that in one way or another some cabinet employees cooperate with private company Practicali, which provides tax training. The conclusion, which we have already made in the past, is that this firm often has information that is not available to the public or to us, but to the cabinet or administration, for example draft texts. My questions are about getting transparency on this. Can you give an overview of the persons who have worked or have worked on your policy cell since January 2015 and who have been paid by Practicali during the period they worked in the Cabinet for services provided, for example as a teacher? Can you tell us for each of those employees how much they were paid by Practicali in total? Can you give an overview of the persons who have worked or have worked on your policy cell since January 2015 and who are or have been shareholders of Practicali bvba?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u85	Mr Vanvelthoven, pursuant to Article 12 (1) of the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the Staff Regulations of Officials, the State official may not, in any way, engage in any paid activity outside his post, except after obtaining an authorization to accumulate. That still applies to all Cabinets. Cabinet officials are subject to the status of the State staff and therefore to that cumulation procedure. However, the status of state staff does not apply to cabinet staff who are not state officials. Article 12 does not refer to the pursuit of paid activities inherent in the post, activities linked to the post by virtue of a statutory or regulatory provision, provided, however, that the prior written agreement of the hierarchical superior and the pursuit of an activity resulting from an appointment by the competent authority, provided, however, that information is given to the hierarchical superior. The name, the name, the exact payments per person and the data on shareholdership are personal data. The processing therefore falls under the provisions of the Law of 8 December 1992 and the Regulation of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. All obligations were fulfilled. There is no preference for Practicali compared to other similar business organisations. Having said that, I would like to make the following specific points. Firstly, four people who have worked on my policy cell since 2015 received compensation from Practicali for services provided during the period they worked in the Cabinet. Secondly, the total amount paid by Practicali to those employees is EUR 16 050. Thirdly, there are no persons who have worked or worked in my policy cell since 2015, who have or have been a shareholder of Practicali.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u86	The question arises, Minister, whether or not you agree. In any case, there is the impression that your policy cell is making money with first-hand information. It would be good if, now that you have thought about it, you would stress that it would be better not to have your policy cell staff who are paid to provide courses based on the information they receive in your policy cell. There is a reason why such a ban on state officials has been introduced. The underlying reason is the same for cabinet employees who are not government officials. I urge you to limit such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u87	Debates of the European Parliament 24999 by Mr Vanvelthoven is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u88	Minister, there has been a lot of work to be done on this too. Last week I happened to have followed the debate on this in the Flemish Parliament. This question is mainly about the tax consequences. I understand that the De Warande business club of the Flemish government receives an interest-free loan of 800 000 euros. According to De Warande, this is a prepayment for membership granted to senior Flemish officials, chiefs of the cabinet and ministers. Membership for a year would be EUR 1 000. Minister, is this free membership a taxable advantage of all kinds that should be indicated in the personal income tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u89	Mr Vanvelthoven, all the circumstances specific to each case will have to show whether or not the free membership of the De Warande business club for senior Flemish officials, cabinet heads and ministers constitutes a taxable advantage of all kinds. So I really cannot give a unanimous answer to that question. It will depend on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u90	Have you ever been a member, Mr Vanvelthoven?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u91	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u92	I do. I used to be a minister for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u93	And you never thought to declare that advantage of all kind? Mr. Secretary, it's a little amazing. I feel it is not easy to answer that. However, when we talk about business seats at football clubs, it is clear that there is a tax regime against that. This too is fairly clear: they get a free membership. Whether it is a minister or a senior official, a cabinet employee or anyone else: anyone who gets that benefit would undoubtedly like to know what to do with that tax. If you say today that this should be looked at on a case-by-case basis, then I believe that all those who benefit from it are the same. If this is true for one and not for the other, then that sounds a bit strange. Perhaps you should urge your administration to clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u94	Mrs. Jadin is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u95	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian tax return estimates real estate income differently according to its location. For real estate in Belgium, the taxable base is calculated on the basis of the cadastral income. However, for a real estate situated in other European countries, the real rental value is taken as the basis. According to the European Commission, the scheme would be contrary to European law, as demonstrated by an earlier ruling by the European Court of Justice. My question is this. We're struggling with that issue. Will you take measures? What measures will you take to bring Belgian legislation into line with European law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u96	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, it is true that the European Court of Justice is no longer satisfied, or is no longer satisfied, with Belgium's responsibility for the distinction in taxable basis between real estate income of Belgian origin and real estate income of foreign origin. However, it is not true that the European Commission makes specific recommendations on how, what or where. We will, of course, respond to the ruling. The procedure has been set in motion to do what is necessary and to remedy this. An important starting point is that, as a result of the correction made by the European Court of Justice, there should be no increase in the overall tax burden, if you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u97	Mr President, Minister, I understand what you mean. That file also forms part of some form of tax shift, if you want to fix it. Is there any time limit for the response that is being prepared? Do you have a term in mind? When do you want to finish the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u98	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u99	It is easy for me to know when I can submit my new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u100	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u101	We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u102	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin has converted 25038 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u103	Mr President, Minister, the European Anti-Avoidance Directive, ATAD, obliges EU Member States to introduce a limitation on the deductibility of interest. I have already questioned you about this in this committee and during the discussion of the draft on corporate tax reform. In this reform, the government has opted to allow the limitation of interest deduction to take effect later than that imposed by the Directive. To this end, you have given the European Commission the view that the measure in question from ATAD is not more effective than the internal rules that our country already has today. I quote from the report of the Finance Commission of 26 September 2017: "Belgium submitted a request for renewal to the European Commission on 28 June 2016 stating that the existing national rules to prevent risks on BEPS are as effective as the interest deduction limit in the Directive." Mr Minister, my obvious question is the following. Have you received a response from the European Commission? Does the European Commission agree with your reasoning that our country already has internal rules that are as effective as the limitation of interest deductions from ATAD? If so, then there is no problem. If not, will you allow the limitation of interest relief to take effect early?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u104	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, at the end of June 2017, Belgium did indeed inform the Commission of the fact that Belgium wishes to make use of the possibility under Article 11 (6) of the ATAD Directive not to allow the interest deduction limitation in Article 5 of the Directive to apply from 1 January 2019. Belgium has argued that it has a combination of specific measures to prevent risks on BEPS that are as effective as the rule on interest relief set out in Article 4. Belgium has meanwhile implemented a significant corporate tax reform which also integrated the transposition of the measure of the ATAD Directive. The rate reduction will enter into force in Belgium on 1 January 2020. A request for a one-year extension has been made. The Commission responded to that request on 6 February 2018 for the first time. In doing so, the Commission asks for additional empirical evidence of the effectiveness of the Belgian rules. I would point out that other Member States which also submitted a request pursuant to Article 11 (6) have received the same question from the European Commission. So the procedure is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will continue to follow that case. When you send an answer to the European Commission, it may be appropriate to inform the chairman of our Finance Committee about the position you take with the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u106	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 25055 under item 41 has already been taken under item 37.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u107	Mr Minister, a journalistic investigation has taught us that three Belgian companies have exported chemicals, including isopropanol, a potential component of sarin gas, to Syria, while an international embargo prohibits it. Indeed, in 2013, the United Nations International Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) banned exports of chemicals to Syria. However, the investigation that was made shows that between May 2014 and December 2016, 24 deliveries were made. Mr Minister, I do not hide from you that I am concerned about the situation: isopropanol may be one of the components of sarin gas. However, it is known that in April 2017, a chemical attack was carried out using such a substance. This is one of the OPCW's conclusions, which unfortunately cannot determine the origin of this substance. These exports would have been made with the approval of customs, which would have disregarded the international embargo. Minister, do you confirm that? Could you explain to us the procedures to be followed in the event of an embargo decided by the United Nations? How do the authorities ensure that the embargo is respected? Who issues export permits in this specific case? Are special control measures in place within customs? How can these companies believe that they are sending these products to Syria for civilian use? How can they ignore the embargo? How can they ignore that they are dual-use goods for the worst? How have these exports been allowed to pass? Can you assure us today that no other exports will be made via the port of Antwerp? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u108	Mr President, Minister, as we know, three Antwerp companies are being prosecuted for illegally exporting more than 500 tons of banned chemicals to Syria. However, since July 2013, these exports have been banned by the European Union and the United Nations International Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW). Indeed, some of these products are used in the manufacture of chemical weapons, such as isopropanol, which is a precursor of sarin gas, used on several occasions by the Bashar al-Assad regime against its own population. In three years, however, Belgium has delivered 114 tonnes of this only product to Syria, which corresponds roughly to the quantity of this product destroyed in 2014 in Syria by the OPCW, since in that year the latter had destroyed 120 tonnes of this product. In short, Belgium has enabled Syria to rebuild its destroyed stockpiles of chemical weapons products. Belgian customs apparently did not take account of the OPCW ban. These prohibitions were therefore not complied with by these undertakings, nor were they properly enforced and controlled by the Belgian customs authorities. Worse still, the Belgian State cannot say that it was not aware of this, since UN Comtrade, a statistical database on international trade managed by the United Nations, recorded these exports of isopropanol and propane year by year from Belgium. To achieve this, UN Comtrade depends entirely on the data transmitted to it by the member countries. Like my colleague, I would like to clarify the circumstances that led to these exports and their consequences. I would therefore like to ask a whole series of questions to which I would like to receive specific answers. Minister, how has the European Union's decision to ban chemicals been notified to Belgium? When exactly is it dated? By whom and to which member of the government and/or to which administration has it been notified? When? How, by whom and when was the decision notified to the undertakings concerned? Have the companies that exported notified their exports to customs? In what way? At each export or annually? Had they been informed that the export of these products was illegal? How does UN Comtrade receive its information from United Nations member States? What administration or government (federal or regional) has notified these exports for Belgium in 2014, 2015 and 2016 and when? When did Belgium react to these exports? Why did she finally react? Has it received a notification from UN Comtrade, ICAO, or has it spontaneously realized that illegal exports were taking place from its territory by Belgian companies? Why didn't she react earlier? It is certain that she let it do until the end of 2016. What is known about the end use of these products in Syria? To which companies have these products been delivered? What for? Can it really be excluded that these products were used in the manufacture of combat gases? Could the company that manufactured these products be unaware that they could be used in the production of combat gases? What steps have been taken to ensure that Belgium no longer exports any prohibited products or services to Syria? Since when have these arrangements been made? Are there any sanctions for those responsible who have allowed, authorized and allowed such exports? If so, which ones? Is there a risk that other companies may have also exported prohibited products in violation of the international embargoes that you are responsible for enforcing at Belgian level? Do you have more comprehensive information on this subject, beyond the three companies currently mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u109	Mr Crusnière, Mr Dallemagne, there have been no international sanctions against Syria, as no United Nations resolution has been adopted. In this case, there is no question of an embargo. Isopropanol is not listed in the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) under the control of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The European Union has established an autonomous framework with restrictive measures against Syria since January 2012. These restrictions relate, inter alia, to the introduction of a licensing obligation for certain chemicals when they exceed a certain concentration in terms of purity. With regard specifically to isopropanol, a licence obligation was introduced from 24 July 2013 for a concentration of 95% or more. This obligation was made public by the Official Journal of the European Union of 23 July 2013. Given the nature of the goods, the responsibility for the management and application of these specific restrictions and prohibitions lies with the Regions. The Regions assess both the nature of the goods and the destination or recipients, before issuing or refusing a licence. No other export control, restriction or prohibition is based on the product and therefore the product is freely negotiable given the numerous industrial applications in the field of disinfection and cleaning as well as many medical applications. Customs has to date no indication of any use other than that in the paint industry. Exports took place over a decade towards the same fixed clientele. When an operator wishes to export to a third country outside the European Union, he must introduce for this purpose an electronic customs declaration in accordance with the European model, the single document. The declaration may contain various goods that fall under another commodity code. The coding of goods under commodity codes is determined via the harmonised system on the basis of the volumes marketed and the value of the goods. The goods are encoded according to the tariff under commodity code 29051200 which includes both propane and isopropanol, regardless of their concentration. The data of these customs declarations, such as the commodity code, are transmitted to the National Bank for further processing to Eurostat data, which is mandatory for all Member States. United Nations statistics, Comtrade, are based on Eurostat data. The statistics for the goods codes I have just mentioned, 29051200, include both propane and isopropanol. As regards customs controls, the European Customs Regulation lays down a common framework for risk management in order to achieve harmonised application of customs controls by Member States and thus avoid distortion of competition. This also applies to goods subject to control or restriction measures which may be marketed under a licensing system. Risk management is determined by inputs from other competent bodies such as licensing services. Using these inputs, an evaluation is carried out in order to arrive at a selection. The selections and associated checks shall be carried out both at the commodity code level and on the basis of the information received by the competent authorities. Such risk management is a process subject to continuous monitoring. Customs, as in other Member States, makes every effort to maintain and improve the level of performance of its risk analysis and the resulting controls. We await the results of the investigation and the judicial decision. The proceedings before the court already begin on 15 May. An analysis of the facts is also carried out within customs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u110	Mr. President, thank you. Thank you, minister, for those answers that still greatly disturb me. You say that there is no embargo but, simply, a licensing obligation that was imposed by the European Union from July 2013. But, without going into the details of the procedure, why does customs then bring these companies to justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u111	Exports were made without licences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u112	It is important to re-specify it. Thank you. I therefore hear what Minister Jambon had already said last week in plenary when he responded to your position as you were required by the IMF, namely that it is the Region that is competent to issue the licence for this type of dual-use product. Obviously, there was no application for a licence as you confirm that this lack of a licence justifies the legal action. Were there any licences granted or not at any time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u113	Mr Crusnière, a judicial investigation is under way, and the debates will begin, as I have just said at the end of my presentation, on 15 May. I will wait for the outcome of this judicial inquiry before deciding on very specific matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u114	Minister, I understand well, but I believe that two errors may have been committed by the Region unless the investigation determines that no licences have been applied for. But if a licence had been applied for and granted at some point in time, it was rather disturbing that a Region could award a licence for dual-use products of this type and, above all, it had not given the necessary inputs. As you have said, the analysis of the risks of customs is based on inputs given by different partners and among other things by the one who issues the licence, namely in the case of the Flemish Region. It's extremely disturbing. You didn't answer my last question. Since that discovery, have any additional measures been put in place to try to avoid and end such exports? In the international context, and more specifically in Syria, every effort must be made to stop these exports and to give the customs authorities the means to exercise proper control over them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u115	Mr Minister, you say that it is the Regions that are responsible for the ban. But it is the customs authority that is responsible for the control. I also mean that these are products banned by the European Union. To my knowledge, they are not licensed, they are prohibited. I've seen a list of products that I can produce for you. Beyond a concentration of 95%, these products are prohibited for export.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u116	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u117	I'll check it out, but that's what I saw. In any case, these exports are illegal. According to your reasoning, they are subject to licence. It is certain that this product, isopropanol, is destroyed by the OPCW because it is a precursor of sarin gas. It is also certain that we are the only European country to continue to export these products to Syria. You haven't answered a whole series of questions I'm asking you. When did we find out? Who knew? When was it known that these exports took place illegally?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u118	As I told Mr. Crusnière, a judicial investigation is being conducted. I don't want to move forward on its results. I look forward to the results and, then, we will have clarity supported by legal action on all these points.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u119	This reasoning is unacceptable. It is because it is a dispute between customs and the companies concerned. In this case, I ask you, as a political authority, when your administration and customs knew. I don't need to know there's a lawsuit about it! I am a parliamentarian and I am asking you, as a member of the government, to know when you knew. These exports were regularly notified by the National Bank of Belgium (you underlined it and I checked it). Every year, the National Bank of Belgium informs UN Comtrade of our exports of isopropanol to Syria. She did it in 2014, 2015, 2016. Why were these figures, why were these statistics listed, and why were there no red alerts? I don't need to know what justice will say. I ask you to inform Parliament when you and your administration were informed of this. I think you can answer me about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u120	I believe the minister has given his answer. He's responsible for it. He said he was waiting for the investigation. You don't agree. I think the question has been asked. He answered. You replied. We cannot start a debate now on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u121	Mr. Chairman, I find it unacceptable – and I weigh my words – how the government deals with this issue. I'll come back, and I'll be heavy. This is the export of products which should never have been exported by Belgium and which have enabled Syria to rebuild stocks of isopropanol. Minister, you are not responding to the end-use of this product. You say it's a client we've been serving for ten years, but we didn't even worry about whether that client was still using it. Similarly, you do not tell us whether or not the company knew that this product could be used as a combat gas. No investigation was conducted into the questions I asked. I will therefore come back to question you, because this case is of exceptional gravity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u122	The minister leaves around 5:30. I propose that the questions be put very briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u123	Minister, our fire services are working with volunteers and, like these volunteers, the ambulance services are using voluntary ambulances who receive limited compensation for their time. These persons are entitled to a small fee, as provided for in the Voluntary Act 2005. Both the fire department and most ambulance services use them. The professional group in question considers that it is a need to provide adequate compensation for voluntary workers, in accordance with the voluntary firefighters scheme laid down in Article 38, § 1, 12° of the WIB 92. As a response to parliamentary questions, you have expressed a positive opinion on eliminating the unequal treatment between voluntary aid workers and voluntary firefighters. Until now, Article 38 of the WIB 92 has still not been amended. However, I found that the situation of social law was already corrected by the Royal Decree of 17 December 2017. So the social law aspect is already in order. Now this situation also needs to be dealt with in tax law. Mr Minister, can you explain whether you are preparing a legal amendment to Article 38 of the WIB 92? If so, what timing do you plan for this? If not, how will you resolve the situation, so that this will be resolved by tax law for that group?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u124	My administration is indeed preparing a legislative proposal to extend the measure to voluntary ambulances for urgent medical assistance. This is as good as round. This will be discussed within the government. Hopefully this can be done in the short term, but I'm not going to pin myself on a certain week or month. At least it's in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u125	Minister, this has been going on for a long time, from 2015, or even before. You said at that time that we must eliminate the unequal treatment between voluntary ambulances and firefighters. It's a good thing you're doing that. I hope that we will be able to approve this legislative amendment before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u126	Minister, good and transparent data exchange is important in the fight against tax fraud. However, we have found that the Global Forum has reduced our country's rating. In 2013 we received the highest rating, but now that is no longer the case. Our country was in line with international standards, but still we scored less well in terms of providing information on property and identity data, confidentiality and access to information. That's why we failed from compliant to largely compliant. My question is therefore simple, Minister. What measures will you take, and with what timing, to remedy the weaknesses revealed by the Global Forum? Above all, I would like to call on you to make up for this once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u127	Mr Vanvelthoven, at the beginning of April this year the OECD has indeed published the results of the peer review on transparency and exchange of information. The review specifically covers the period from October 2013 to September 2016 and takes into account the state of legislation at the end of 2017. Belgium has received a largely compliant quoting, compared to compliant in 2013. Two important nuances need to be made. Firstly, since 2013, the transparency requirements of the Global Forum have been strengthened. To interpret the current rating as if Belgium had become less transparent is not entirely correct. Secondly, countries such as Australia, Denmark, Germany and Canada also receive a rating largely compliant. We are therefore in unsuspecting company. In the peer review Belgium receives a number of recommendations. The government certainly takes it to heart. Moreover, not all recommendations require legislative action. Following the new Belgian peer review, the government has, moreover, taken a number of measures, following the recent budgetary controls, which are already in line with these recommendations. I'll give you three. Firstly, the transposition of the DAC5 directive on access to anti-money laundering information by the tax authorities will be extended to requests for information from third countries. Secondly, in order to prevent third parties from ignoring the obligation to provide information, the sanctions in the WIB 92 are increased in the event of non-cooperation. Thirdly, in order to ensure the correct identification of the beneficial owner in all cases, it will be registered in company law that natural persons are required to notify the companies in which they are shareholders if they hold, directly or indirectly, a holding of 25% or more, or otherwise exercise control of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u128	Minister, the measures you have already taken for the time being are good. We will see to what extent additional legislative work will be required on the basis of these recommendations. If the government fails to take the necessary initiatives in this area, we will, of course, be happy to present them to Parliament from the point of view of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u129	Mr Minister, at the beginning of last month, a satisfied CEO of a real estate company wrote the following in an opinion document: "Some tens of thousands of managers in our country will soon be able to live a lot more economically in a home of their company, thanks to the Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt (N-VA)." The title of the piece was "Second Breath for Luxury Real Estate." As a minister, you communicated that the factor by which the AI is increased to determine the benefit of all kinds due to free residence would be abolished. Afterwards, there was still a lack of clarity. That is why I am asking for more clarity. What concrete decision has been taken? What is the budgetary impact of that decision? Is there any provision in budgetary control for this? When would this new arrangement enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u130	Mr Vanvelthoven, in this matter there is the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Ghent, which states that, in view of the alleged breach of the principle of equality, it is not possible to rely on the method of rental value for determining the benefit. As regards the principle of equality, the Court also expressly reiterates in its judgment that the difference in the valuation of the benefit of residence according to whether it is made available by a legal person or by a natural person cannot be maintained. In all cases, the benefit of residence should be determined in accordance with the flat-rate valuation applicable to the provision of services by a natural person. As a result of the case law cited and pending an adapted regulation, the benefit of all types of housing provision at present can only be calculated on the basis of 100/60 of the indexed cadastral income. However, in order to put an end to the infringement of the principle of equality, as currently laid down in Article 18 of the WIB 92, a concrete proposal for a definitive solution will be submitted to the Government once the administration has completed the full legal and budgetary investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u131	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that you have communicated prematurely and that this communication has been taken over prematurely in that document of opinion. It seems that further analysis is needed. I await your further initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u132	Scientific institutions must be recognised if they are to benefit from the tax advantages for scientific research. There are a number of conditions attached to this, such as the type of research and who is carrying it out. Of course, this has to be examined by the competent services. However, from the field of action, I am informed that no new institutions have been recognised since 2014. That is, of course, worrying. A parliamentary question has also been asked to Mr Demir, who has replied that there are two problems. On the one hand, the last round of recognition was difficult, with many comments from the Treasury Inspectorate. On the other hand, the FPS Finance had published an adequate clarification in a circular. That is why the Secretary of State indicated that the measure is in urgent need of revision and that she is working with you for a new framework to ensure the finality of the measure. Can you give an overview of the objections raised by the Treasury Inspectorate? Is it true that legislative work is being carried out? When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u133	The scientific institutions are recognized by a decision after consultation in the Council of Ministers. The services of my colleague Demir, responsible for Science Policy, are preparing the decisions. I am therefore not aware in detail of any objections raised by the Finance Inspectorate with regard to the existing framework. The Law of 27 September 2017 on Company Tax Reform introduced a § 4 in Article 275 of the WIB 92, which grants the King delegation to lay down the conditions for the recognition of scientific institutions. My policy cell, together with Mr Demir's policy cell, is currently preparing an implementing decision on this matter. As soon as the draft decision is ready, I will request the necessary opinions and agreements for the draft decision as soon as possible and, of course, submit them to the King for signature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u134	Mr President, I have a previous question. 3600 about this matter, about the ballooning and the sticking toks. Apparently there is a bit of resentment and a lot of uncertainty about the exact wording and checks on the liability of the banners. Mr Minister, you replied to my previous question about the plaques and the lack of clarity in the tax, that the place of application of the tax liability should be taken into account. You also replied that the tax is jointly and severally due by the person who has an interest in the publicity and by the entrepreneur of the application. From the practical point of view, I am once again getting signals that there is still a great deal of uncertainty and that there are still many problems with the controls. At the moment, it is said that inspections are being carried out which, according to the ballooners, show some arbitrariness in determining the total adhesives. For example, one 5 000 euros will be glued and the other 160 euros will be glued for about the same area of plugging on those balloons. In addition, balloon operators also pay a fee of approximately EUR 2 000 per two years for the towing of advertising, depending on the number of balloons per balloon sailor, in the form of an authorisation of air work imposed by the air transport administration. It is therefore a burden on the transport of passengers, but also on the towing of the balloon with advertising. The question is whether this can be qualified as a double taxation. So there is, on the one hand, the tax on towing advertising as well as a tax on advertising on the balloon. On the other hand, there's the sticking tops. Can you clarify how the load should be calculated as a result of ballooning? It's about the glue tops. Secondly, do you think it is true that there is some arbitrariness in the administration in the calculation of the tax? This will certainly depend on the different regions. If so, how come? Is a poster tax problematic in the light of the principle of non bis in idem, when a tax is already levied on the carriage of passengers and the towing of advertising, imposed by the air transport administration? If not, why not? If so, will you take initiatives to resolve that? Given the questions that continue to arise and the uncertainty that lives on the ground, it might be useful to consult with a delegation from the ballooners. There's a Royal Federation of Balloon sailors who follow up on such matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u135	There is only a double charge contrary to the principle of non-bis-in-idem if the tax is levied twice on the same taxable matter on the basis of the same taxable person, as a principle. In order to examine whether there is a double charge in this case, it will therefore be necessary to distinguish between the taxable matter and the taxable persons of both the levying and the levying of the air transport administration. The fee on docking establishes a fee on posters which are visible to the public and which may occur, inter alia, on balloons and which is payable only once a year, i.e. when the advertising is applied effectively. The tax payer of this application is either the entrepreneur of the attachment, or the person who has an interest in having it taped. In p.o.b. 3600 has already been pointed out that this capacity does not always have to coincide with the balloon sailor or the ballooning company. It is correct that the carrying out of propaganda and publicity by means of an aircraft is subject to a prior authorisation which should be renewed if necessary. The charge by the Air Administration shall constitute a consideration for the declaration of an authorisation for air work and/or air caps, the amounts of which shall start from EUR 1 500. It is clear that this levy is a counterpart to the authorisation, which, first and foremost, does not have the character of a tax but must be regarded as a compensation for a performance. There is therefore no double taxation here. Even if this were the case, the taxable matter and the taxable persons are so different in both measures that it is necessary to decide here too that even in such a case there is no double taxation. Finally, the levy on the use of aircraft was already in place a long time before the imposition of the charge on the administration of aviation, so that, in the event of any incompatibility, the responsibility for double taxation lies with the latter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u136	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which I will certainly deliver. If there are any further questions or doubts, I suggest that those concerned should be able to contact the administration or your cabinet for a direct consultation. If you haven't done it yet, I can certainly recommend a balloon ride. I've become a fan myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u137	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u138	You've already done a balloon ride? Good!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u139	Minister, the tax officers would have been ordered to systematically reject any claim if there were no evidence. You confirmed the existence of such an operation in January. Can you give me more details on the reasons for implementing such a process? Why did you remove a taxpayer's right to request a review of his file by another official if no new arguments were made? Do you not fear that this new process will result in tax lawyers not mentioning all the arguments at the beginning of the proceedings but will retain some elements for claims cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u140	Mr Crusnière, the administration will examine the desirability of making available to the control services information on the files of the species selected in a centralised manner. Since January of this year, the administration has been developing a new system of indicators, linked to the grids of periodic VAT returns, which could supplement, where appropriate, the information for these services. The TACM Service, which is responsible for central selection, has been working with operational services working groups for several years. The administration has also set up a structural network of heads of control divisions of SME centres. In particular, it helps to explain actions better, to increase the speed and quality of feedback and thus to improve the selection of files. These measures contribute to increased transparency at the level of local control services. The "First" project will be finalised in early 2020. My administration is already using this system to manage the criminal fines and the furniture discount. In addition, different types of debt will be gradually integrated. For example, starting in June of this year, "First" will make available to some federal public services (FPS) and public programming services (PPS), as part of the "Redesign" project, an interface to inject their debts, so as to benefit from the recovery opportunities offered by my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u141	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think, however, that you are not answering the right question. The answer you're giving me wasn't the right one... I was talking to you about the litigation and you're talking to me about the "First" project. That question must have been asked by... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u142	In order not to waste your time, I propose that you forward the answer to my question in writing. Minister's Collaborator: I'm still going to check what happened at the administrative level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u143	Mr Minister, in certain cases an employer grants a global allowance for commuting. The employee opts for the statutory fee. In that case, the administration shall state that the taxable person may apply the tax exemption provided that he can prove the cost for each of the means of transport. Proof of a subscription by a copy of the subscription card of De Lijn or MOBIB is usually considered insufficient proof. Most tax administrations therefore claim a correct sheet 281.10. Firstly, it should be sufficient to provide the tax administration with a copy of its public transport subscription, especially if its expiry date is shown. What is your position on this? Secondly, if the employer grants an overall allowance to the employee, is it effective enough for it to be entered on the sheet 281.10 under box 18 C? Thirdly, the minimum exemption of EUR 390 for other modes of transport must be granted automatically without the taxpayer having to provide any proof. Can you confirm that position?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u144	Where an employer has granted an overall allowance for commuting which he has not been able to determine as to whether it relates to the payment of costs for commuting carried out by public common transport or organised common transport, he shall indicate that compensation for the year 2017 in box 17, heading C of the sheet 281.10. In that case, where his professional costs are determined on a flat-rate basis, the worker may apply the EUR 390 exemption without having to provide any proof. In addition, if he wishes to claim the additional exemption for the use of public common transport, he must keep at the disposal of the administration a note stating the means of public transport used and a detailed explanation of the exemption, as well as supporting documents relating to movements by public common transport. A copy of a carrier on which the validated subscriptions are charged digitally, such as a MOBIB card, is not sufficient in this respect as such evidence. A copy of a carrier does not prove the existence of a subscription. On the other hand, a certificate from the public transport company concerned will always be accepted as evidence. Mr Janssens, the question also shows that you may be referring to a specific case. If you can provide more specific information on this matter, we are certainly prepared to have this seriously investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u145	Mr Minister, this is not a specific case; the question was raised in a debate on public transport, which should be somewhat facilitated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u146	Mr Minister, I submitted my question on the budget project and the preparation of the stability programme on Friday morning. However, I have seen on the news in the afternoon that the government had already taken a decision on this. However, we will certainly discuss this in the course of budgetary control. However, Minister, I would like to ask the following question. The budget balance from 2019 has shifted to 2020. In the calculations of the Supreme Court of Finance, when we look at the tables, the Council assumes, for the coming years, a deterioration under unchanged policies. There was a decrease to 1% of gross domestic product in 2017, which was a very good result and a spectacular reduction compared to 2016. However, that percentage would rise again in 2018 to 1.4 %, to 1.9 % in 2019 and to 1.9 % in 2020. As a result, a cumulative deterioration of almost 1%, namely 0.9 %, would occur over three years. Formulated in absolute amounts, this would mean a deterioration of around EUR 4 billion. We are also facing a deficit of EUR 4 billion, which means that in 2020 we would be facing a deficit of around EUR 8 billion if policies were unchanged. This also means that the primary balance would decrease from 1,5 % of gross domestic product in 2017 to 0,4 % in 2021. However, the primary surplus should be 2%, in order to reduce our high debt ratio. After all, we still have a debt of 102 to 103 %. We are at 1.5 % in 2017. However, that percentage would deteriorate again to 0.4%. The High Council of Finance proposes a double path, in particular a structural balance by 2020 and a structural improvement of 0.6% in 2019, i.e. an alternative project with a structural balance by 2020 and an equal distribution of the improvement in 2019 and 2020. My question is this. What exactly did the government decide? There will be a path through which we will shift the budget balance to 2020. What is its implication for 2019? One scenario speaks of a saving of 4.6 billion. In another direction, we are talking about a saving of 3.6 billion. My personal opinion is this. In my capacity as chairman of the Finance Committee, I have always dreamed of saying goodbye with a budget balance. You are younger than me, but here in the early 1980s I saw that there were deficits of 13 % and 14 %. I thought that, with the better economic situation and the fall in interest rates, this government would seize the unique opportunity to achieve a budget balance in 2019. That is not the case now. There are the costs of ageing. The interest rate doesn't stay low forever either. Pension charges will rise. There is now a growth in the economic situation of 2%. Last year we had a very good result on income for personal income tax and also on the advance payment of corporation tax. According to my judgment of value, this is a missed opportunity. If I am correct, the stability programme will still have to be approved by the government tomorrow. What percentages are we talking about? Are we following what the Supreme Court has said? Which route is followed? What are the implications of that? Budgetary control will certainly give us an opportunity to discuss this on the substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic878x.u147	I missed the discussion because I was in Washington for talks. It's always interesting to look at this from a global context. The people of the IMF stressed very strongly that the economic situation is going well and that the prospects are good. There is, of course, the threat of the trade war, which is being taken very seriously. However, there is also the fact, and I believe that former ECB President Trichet also pointed this out during the weekend, that debt continues to rise. By definition, therefore, the global financial system is becoming more fragile. It is a debt increase as a percentage of GDP, so that debt is heavier to bear. So I have missed the discussion within the government on the concrete path. I understand that we are choosing route 2 of the Supreme Court, which will therefore require a considerable effort of 3.6 billion. You yourself have been through budgetary checks. You know what it's like, especially in the pre-electoral context in which we come now, to look for 3.6 billion. That won't be obvious. I share your view that we should indeed try to achieve this by all means possible. This budget balance is more than a fetish. It is something that will, of course, contribute to accelerated deleveraging. It is also important for the reputation of our country. People always say we're lucky to have the interest rate drop. That's right. However, this happiness must also be enforced. We have a good to very good rating at the rating agencies. That translates into market interest rates that are what they are. Other countries that do the budget less well have to pay a lot more. However, I fully agree with you, Mr Van Rompuy, that we must do everything we can to achieve at least as close as possible to the objective of a balanced budget. I will, of course, come along with Minister Wilmès to give the necessary explanations.
