ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u1	Madam President, Minister, researchers from ULB and UCL have organized a survey of 100 people to analyze how they choose the best foods for their health based on nutrition information printed on packaging. To do this, researchers have subjected them to different exercises, such as calculating the number of calories contained in a cookie box, in order to assess the level of consumer knowledge of the products they buy. The results of the survey show that, on average, the subjects responded correctly to two thirds of the exercises, but this in an experimental context in which the conditions of attention are less optimal than in reality. The findings of the survey indicate that consumers find it difficult to understand nutritional information about packaging. These results suggest that nutrition information is not presented in a way that allows most consumers to make informed decisions about their health. France has already legislated for the introduction of an optional colour system known as Nutri-Score. On the other hand, some consumer protection organisations want similar harmonisation at European level. Minister, have you consulted this study? What do you think of the conclusions she draws? Do you share them? Are there any discussions on the establishment of a harmonised European nutrition information system? What about Belgium? Are we going to draw inspiration from French legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u2	Mrs Galant, thank you for your question, which was tabled a few months ago. Meanwhile, as you know, I have taken the decision to adopt Nutri-Score as a nutrition label for Belgium. This label is based on two levels: on the one hand, it reliably reflects the place that a product can occupy in a balanced diet and, on the other, its impact has been tested and compared with that of other labelling systems in a commercial environment. For further details, I invite you to read the record of the debate in this committee on my policy note. You are aware that Sciensano has examined all existing systems: traffic lights, small check boxes and Nutri-Score. We also took our information in France, a country where Nutri-Score was introduced and whose evaluation was communicated to me by my colleague Agnès Buzyn. It appears that consumers are seeking a quick and clear method. You have to know that the consumer doesn't have much time to shop. It is also evident that producers now want to be in the green or orange category. If a product is initially in the wrong color, they change its composition. This boosts production. For the rest, there is also the Balanced Food Convention with producers as well as with the retail sector. Here, other measures have been taken: in prepared salads, for example, the proportion of vegetables will increase, while the proportion of cereals and carbohydrates will decrease. We are working on several levels with the Balanced Food Convention and the Belgian Pledge, an initiative concerning responsible marketing towards children, including the prohibition of all "attractive" advertising. As far as Nutri-Score is concerned, we have communicated our decision to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u4	We have not heard from Mrs Van Peel, Mr Blanchart and Mrs Van Hoof for the time being. Mrs. Fonck is still expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u5	Madam Secretary, in May you said that you would wait for the pilot phase. It ended on August 31, 2018. A thorough evaluation of the implementation of the agreement would then be carried out by the UZ Leuven. You also said that there would be a new, objective, scientific state of affairs, which might give you new insights. Where do you stand with this? Are there any results of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u6	Mrs. Dedry, the answer is rather cumbersome. I could reply briefly, but I think this issue is important enough to go further. The centre of the UZ Leuven has submitted a detailed evaluation report, reflecting the international evolutions on CVS since the start of the agreement in 2014, with an objective overview of the scientific state of affairs on the various aspects of CVS and with a lot of statistical data on patient population characteristics and their evolution during the guidance. That report is on the RIZIV website, but I will give you the most important decisions and recommendations. The agreement with the Multidisciplinary Diagnostic Centre of the UZ Leuven has been extended for two years until 31 August 2020. We can defend this extension on the basis of the report. It also allows to examine and implement certain recommendations and adjustments. The revised guidelines of the UK's leading National Institute for Health and Care Excellence are also expected by 2020. It is also necessary to examine how this agreement can be continued, knowing that only one centre was willing to go into it and the other had dropped out. The other hospitals did not consider it feasible for cognitive behavioral therapy to be given by the outpatient therapists. As far as this centre is concerned, this aspect is already assessed favourably in the report. I come to the other decisions and important developments since the start of the agreement. The scientific research on CVS has experienced an important evolution. In several countries the focus on the treatment of CVS has been shifted. On the basis of a review of the diagnostic criteria and on the basis of developments in the research, the guidelines are also planned to be revised. There is finally a significant increase in scientific interest in CVS. In recent years, there has been a lot of criticism of the gradual practice therapy as it could potentially cause damage in patients with CVS. As a result, the treatment has been strongly questioned. Thus, this gradual practice therapy is no longer recommended for these patients. Physical activity within the personal boundaries remains essential. There is also a need to be accompanied sometimes. The CGT has demonstrated its effectiveness in several studies. Although the causal or pathophysiological mechanisms currently unknown are not dealt with directly, there is a very meaningful intervention within a pathology for which there is currently no other therapeutic potential. Therefore, the cognitive behavioral therapist remains an essential member of the multidisciplinary team. I will give you the current scientific state of affairs of July 2018. Chronic fatigue syndrome is a severe chronic and multisystemic syndrome with a fundamental impairment of daily functioning and quality of life. The abnormalities present in groups of CVS patients that can be scientifically demonstrated have not yet produced a conclusive diagnostic method. So there is currently no biomarker or diagnostic kit. It is still a diagnosis made by the exclusion of other diagnoses, which of course is not the easiest method, given the complaints. The symptoms reported by the patient themselves are therefore of great importance. However, they are also very diverse, which does not make it easy. There are several elements of pathophysiology known, but there is still no scientific consensus on how these elements are related exactly to each other and what mechanism their cause is. So far we have always used the 1994 CDC criteria. Meanwhile, however, the CDC itself advises to use the systemic exercise intolerance disease criteria of the 2015 Institute of Medicine. After all, there is much more emphasis on post-exertional malaise as a central symptom. It is important to recognise CVS patients in their dysfunction and limitations, so that they can also be given the opportunity to invest in rehabilitation. Then I have some statistics on the operation of the centre. That report can also be consulted on the website of the RIZIV. Between March 2015 and April 2018 there were 1,600 notifications. The diagnosis of CVS has been made in 700 patients on the basis of the multidisciplinary diagnostic study. This means that a lot of people suspect they have CVS, when it turns out they don't. They'll probably have other cases. One hundred and fifty patients have followed the entire course of fifteen sessions of cognitive behavioral therapy, 250 patients are still working on it. Fifty patients have completed the trajectory prematurely. Forty patients have not responded to the offer to follow that therapy. The quantitative and qualitative results of the centre of the UZ Leuven show a favourable evolution during and after the follow-up of CVS patients following cognitive behavioral therapy, including fatigue scores and comorbid complaints. These are in line with previous findings. The majority of patients were also satisfied with the guidance and had a positive experience. Of course, this therapy can never be imposed or required. Nor can it be pretended that this therapy will cure CVS. Work resumption difficulties are an important disease-consistent factor. The peek works on the people. More than 90% of patients who have the perspective to resume their work after their capacity is restored are also at work at the end of treatment. It must also be said that they are accompanied. It is therefore important to reach patients who are still working or are not home for too long. The general conclusion is that more than 75% of patients end the treatment course with a positive result, as demonstrated by the improvement of general health and reduction of symptoms, a healthier daily rhythm, improved functioning, an increase in the number of hours that one can be active on a day and the reduction in the impact of emotional stress or work resumption. Regardless of the work that has been done, it is encouraging to me that more and more scientific research is taking place, because there has been no interest in this in a long time. People have been in the dark for a long time when it comes to the causes. I find it interesting that this international comparison has been made. We are on the same wavelength as the neighbouring countries. It is true that one centre is very little for our country, but I cannot oblige hospitals to participate in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. There is a spontaneous clustering of a disease image in one reference centre, where one will come from far and wide.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u8	Mr Blanchart is not present for his question No. 27055.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u9	Madam Minister, as regards the re-examination of the nomenclature, you said that you had already replied in the course of the discussion of the policy paper. We did talk about the principle at the time, but I have not yet answered my punctual questions. Since your time is limited, it is also a good thing for me that you give me your answer in writing. It is, after all, figures that I might as well have asked for in writing. I'm assuming you've got those numbers and you can get them to me. Then we can move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u10	Mrs Dedry, as I said, we have gone into this and it is the subject of a working group within the RIZIV. The figures you requested have not yet been delivered to us. Once they're in our possession, we'll deliver them to you. After all, they must come from the administration and you know that they cannot follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u11	Madam Secretary, can I count on those answers to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u12	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u13	Given the very interesting series of articles in De Morgen, this is an important file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u14	Mrs Caprasse is not present for her question. 27099.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u15	Madam Minister, in the past we have already asked several questions about the FCPs in Antwerp and Ghent. Although the centres aim to treat interned people in a quality manner, due to various problems and growing pains, this is often not the case. At the end of August 2018, FPC Gent employees anonymously testified that the staff shortage endangers both their safety and patient safety. The staff standard of 0.7 FTE per bed, which is used in Ghent, has already been tested in the past, including by the Health Inspectorate following a pilot inspection. To date, there have also been few tools to monitor and evaluate the quality and problems of operation and staffing. Inspection is carried out on the basis of the reference framework of the psychiatric hospitals, which does not take into account the specific functioning and context of an FPC. However, a follow-up committee has been set up by Justice, Public Health, the RIZIV and the Government of the Buildings to monitor the implementation of the agreements with the FPCs. However, it is not known to what extent that committee meets and what exactly is being assessed. At Flemish level, a specific reference framework would be developed for the inspection of residential forensic-psychiatric care. Madam Secretary, how do you respond to the reports of a serious shortage of personnel, which was reported anonymously? Is an adjustment of the staff standard per bed envisaged? How can a thorough and more transparent quality assessment of the FPCs be organised? How often does the follow-up committee meet? When did the committee meet last time? What are the parameters for the quality assessment of the FPCs used by the follow-up committee? What are the most recent findings of the follow-up committee on quality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u16	Mrs Van Hoof, I refer to the answer to five other questions that have already been raised here in committee. I'll get you the numbers. I repeat that the FPC Ghent complies with the staff framework laid down in the Royal Decree of 19 December 2014, which states that the FPC should have a comprehensive care equipe of 21.25 full-time equivalents per 30 beds. However, it may vary according to the needs of the department. For example, in the reintegration department, there are fewer staff employed in the fourth phase of the care facility, as the people in that department are increasingly recovering their autonomy: they can already function more independently or leave the facility during the day in order to make a meaningful daily use. Conversely, there is certainly a need for more care staff for the psychological framework in the department very intensive care than the current standard. During a second audit, the Healthcare Inspectorate found that an appropriate follow-up was given to most of the comments from the first audit. The Internalisation Master Plan, which is designed to meet the needs of the forensic care circuit, has almost rolled out, but since several initiatives from that master plan are still in the start-up phase, it is too early to see the full impact of the master plan on the outflow of patients from FPCs. For this reason, it is not appropriate to make a ruling on an adjustment to the staff standards set in the 2014 Royal Decree. As I mentioned earlier, a thorough analysis is needed, including on the staff standard. Such an analysis may be appropriate after five years of operation; in this sense there are backgrounds. You also asked a question about quality assessment. As you point out, the Health and Health Agency has set up an expert group with the aim of establishing a reference framework for forensic mental health care. This is necessary so that the Health Inspectorate can carry out more qualitative inspections in future in the FPCs. For the first inspection visit, the Health Inspectorate actually based itself on the standards for treatments in specialised psychiatric departments, which caused the necessary commotion. The inspection has recognised the need for a specific reference framework for forensic mental health care in the FPCs. The follow-up committee is responsible for monitoring and monitoring the operation of both the FPC Ghent and the FPC Antwerpen. It ensures that follow-up and control based on frequent reporting from the FPCs. Consultations are also taking place to explore various aspects of the operation. It acts on the basis of the specifications, the final version of the operator's tender and the legal provisions. As regards quality control of care provision, it is the Health Inspectorate that controls the quality of care in the FPCs of Ghent and Antwerp. It has that competence on the basis of a protocol agreement concluded between the Federal State and the Flemish Community. The operating agreement for the FPC Ghent provides that the follow-up committee shall meet whenever circumstances so require. This is twice a year, supplemented by meetings on specific themes. The latest meeting took place on 18 May 2018. In the beginning it was mainly about defects in the building, which were sometimes a problem for the caregivers, because wings were not sufficiently secure or because one could not enter or leave the building properly. I have visited both centres and found that this is a very complicated system. Patients have access to one area or another via a card, depending on the freedom they are given. In the beginning patients have only limited freedom and can move in and around their room as well as in the common kitchen and living room. As patients evolve, they become more and more free and can also leave the centre with a badge. These badges are therefore constantly adapted, including for nursing staff, for those responsible for logistics and for security personnel. I can recommend a visit: it is necessary to get used to the fact that a door does not open until the door is closed behind it. Of course all this is done electronically, so in the beginning the meetings often dealt with the security methods in the new building. Now the buildings are stable in equipment and the meetings are mainly devoted to follow-up. It is therefore also important that the inspection of the quality of care should be independent and not discussed in the consultation committee. There are, of course, implications for the way in which care can be exercised and which must be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clarification. We can indeed speak of a work in progress, given that the Health Inspectorate has changed its reference framework and that the master plan needs to be rolled out even further. It is important that this is done quickly for the safety of both patients and staff. I hope that, as the defects of the building were quickly remedied, safety for both patients and staff will also be improved and quality improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u18	Mrs Jadin is not present for her question No. 27163 and didn't let you know. Mr Senesael has asked his question No. (Applause from the centre and the right) Mr Blanchart is not present for his question No. 27055. Mr Piedboeuf has asked his questions. 273339, 27340 and 27341.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u19	Madam Minister, before I ask you my question, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the work that has been done to reimburse for the treatment of hepatitis C, which will be formalized on January 1. In this way, anyone with this pathology will be able to access it. This claim arose not only from the patient associations, but also from the medical profession. So you've heard all the actors involved. Very sincerely, personally, for following these debates very carefully, I can only congratulate you on your determined attitude in this matter and thanks to which many patients will be able to benefit from this ease of reimbursement. With regard to FibroScan, the previous government had adopted in May 2014 the HCV plan, which sets out the principles of future policy developed in the fight against hepatitis C. I just talked about it. To base the diagnosis of hepatitis C, many hepatologists use the FibroScan examination, which has the advantages over liver puncture to be painless as well as non-invasive and lead to an immediate result. However, no INAMI code corresponds to this examination, so that its cost - from 35 to 75 euros according to the hospital establishments - remains at the patient's full charge. In some cases, the INAMI code of an X-ray is indicated. The patient's charge is then that of the moderator's ticket. To my question on the same subject, in March 2015, you answered: "A working group established within the administration is examining whether FibroScan can reduce the number of liver punctures. We are also looking at other techniques that are currently gaining momentum." Minister, three and a half years later, can you share with us the conclusions of this working group? Is FibroScan considered to be sufficiently accurate? If so, within what time frame could its formalization be considered as a method of diagnosis of hepatitis C and, therefore, its reimbursement? Having said that, I would remind you that the effort you have made for the reimbursement of medication is enormous. Do you still have some flexibility to facilitate the repayment of the FibroScan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u20	Mr Thiéry, I think we have made a very important effort. I'm very happy that this can cure patients. There has never been so much progress in the treatment of these patients, for whom there was little hope of healing before. In the best case, a liver transplant was used, which is not nothing, and it was not always possible. There is still the question of the possible reimbursement of the FibroScan. It has been studied in the past. Currently, the reimbursement of elastography, known as FibroScan, is not provided for in the nomenclature. In the meantime, new information and publications are available on this subject. Among them, we can refer to the KCE Report 276Bs, called "Towards an expansion of the reimbursement of hepatitis C treatments". In this report, the role of FibroScan, as well as blood tests for fibrosis, is discussed as part of the reimbursement of antiviral drugs for the treatment of hepatitis C. An updated evaluation of non-invasive tests for the detection and evaluation of hepatic fibrosis and hepatitis C will be carried out within the INAMI Medical Technical Council. As for your last question, we do not have specific data on the number of FibroScan exams carried out in Belgium, the number of elastographies carried out in Belgium, or the cost involved. As these examinations were not reimbursed, they were not registered. However, we can tell you that in 2017, a total of 1900 patients were reimbursed for antiviral therapy for hepatitis C. Some of these patients, perhaps a third, perhaps more, have undergone elastography. Out of 1900 patients, this gives you an idea of the number. This examination is not always necessary either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 27343 and 27344 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 27399, 27400, 27401, 27403, 27404 and 27406 were postponed. Mr Blanchart is not present for his question No. 27410.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u23	Madam Minister, a year ago I was asking you and your colleague in charge of justice about the lack of doctors in our prisons. Today, we learn that the prison of Marche-en-Famenne, under the impetus of the province of Luxembourg, will embark on a pilot project of telemedicine. Connected devices will offer sick inmates access via video conferencing. In France, some prisons are already equipped with similar devices, which allows them to avoid time-consuming and costly movements of prisoners to hospital centres in the absence of doctors in institutions. Minister, how do you see this initiative? Generally speaking, what is your view of telemedicine? Can it, in your opinion, be a way to solve the problem of the lack of doctors in prison? Would it be appropriate to extend this mechanism to other prisons in our country? Is that already planned? If so, in which prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u24	Mr Flahaux, the current legislation does not allow teleconsultations. The law stipulates that the physical presence of the care provider and the patient is necessary. The new Law on the Quality of Practice of Health Care – which is currently being processed – contains a framework to ensure that this physical presence is no longer absolutely essential, but in the future it will be necessary to draft and approve in an additional regulation specific provisions on conditions and valid situations. Our strategic unit is currently making every effort to be able to announce the first of these conditions as soon as possible. These are actions forming part of the follow-up of the various activities resulting from Action Point 19 in the e-Health Plan and, when defining valid conditions and situations, it is of course examined in detail the possibilities and amounts of reimbursement which may be linked to a precise teleconsultation. Our strategic unit has already worked with the Order of Physicians on several occasions to establish conditions and situations that are considered possible and realistic. In order to do so, foreign practices have been and continue to be strongly taken into account. You're referring to the 24 mobile health projects, mHealth. These projects were selected in 2016. They were executed in the second half of 2017 and then evaluated in the first half of 2018. The results were published at the time and are still available on the website www.mhealth.be. Many lessons have been learned from this pilot project for the benefit of software developers as well as healthcare organizations, care providers, health authorities and our strategic unit. On this basis, frameworks are currently being established not only on the legal but also on compliance and safety. The above-mentioned website provides updated information and, during the next steps, we will of course ensure that we communicate with the public. With regard to teleconsultation in prison, you can also question the Minister of Justice because you must have his consent. Some important security aspects should not be overlooked, but it is certainly a path to be explored for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I wanted to question you before the Minister of Justice because I needed your agreement in principle before I went any further. I would like to highlight two points. First, in prisons, from certain hours and on weekends, there are very few nurses. By doing so, it would help to make things right by respecting the conditions that you have mentioned. Secondly, every move of detainees to hospital or for consultation is extremely time-consuming for police areas. I lived it when we had to drive the prisoners from Ittre Prison to Soignies Hospital, it took a lot of time and energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u26	Madam President, my first question is no longer topical, the second one is. It is a good thing that the National Evaluation Committee on abortion has been established and confirmed by the Minister at KB. My questions are simple. Do you know whether the committee will meet soon and whether the report will be feasible by February? Have you already had contact with the members of the committee to know how they will proceed after so many years of standstill? These are my simple questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u27	Madam Chair, Minister, congratulations on your new skills! My question was tabled in October. Since then, the world has changed. That's the case! I was putting pressure on the new committee to be set up. I really find it a pity that we have not been able to move forward and set up this commission more quickly. On the other hand, I really regret that not all the data that had been collated and validated for the years 2012 to 2015 were available. They would have fed into the debates that have taken place in this Parliament. In addition, the 2016 and 2017 data could have been obtained, even if, in a second stage, when the commission was set up, it could have commented on these data. I regret it; I asked you. You didn't want to move in that direction. That's too bad. That being said, this commission is now constituted. Madam Minister, on the one hand, can we expect you to meet, even if it belongs to her, and I imagine that will be the case? On the other hand, could such data be readily available? The time has really passed and it is becoming urgent. On the other hand, we are at risk of being outlawed in the light of the legislation that has set up this committee and all its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you know that it was not possible to make the Royal Order before because of Murphy's many successive factors in the administration of the House. In fact, the royal decree was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 5 November last. It was also approved by the Council of Ministers on 28 September. I contacted the secretariat of the evaluation committee. I have been informed that the first meeting of this new committee will take place at 3 p.m. on Wednesday 19 December. In response to my question as to what data would be available to the National Evaluation Commission for this first meeting, its secretariat replied that it was prepared to provide data for 2012 and 2013 (first report) as well as 2014 and 2015 (second report). The third report, covering the years 2016 and 2017, is being finalized and will also be available for the first meeting of the Commission. There will be a lot of data available immediately, which also allows us to look at the evolution. Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act of 13 August 1990 on the establishment of a commission provides that the commission shall draw up, for the attention of Parliament, a statistical report detailing and evaluating the implementation and evolution of the law, but also including recommendations for a possible legislative initiative or other measures which may contribute to reducing the number of terminations of pregnancy and to improving the guidance and reception of women in distress. There will be three statistical reports. Section 7 of the Act also provides that any person who assists in the application of this Act shall be responsible for the confidentiality of the data entrusted to him or her in the performance of his or her duties. On the basis of these provisions, only the commission is empowered to distribute the reports. The secretariat, for its part, is not authorized to do so, which is obviously also my case. In addition, statistical data cannot be disseminated separately. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u29	It's the law, and I'm just quoting it. I must respect the laws that have been passed in this chamber. The commission will be set up on 19 December at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u30	I thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament 27412, by Mrs Ben Hamou, lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u32	Mr Van Quickenborne is not here and has not told us anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u33	Madam Secretary, in July 2018, a first cannabis store opened its doors in Brussels. That store only offers products with cannabidiol, so to speak, without the very harmful THC. These include tea, biscuits, chocolate and dried cannabis leaves, but also CBD cartridges for an electronic cigarette or CBD oil. All of these products contain less than 0,2% THC. As a result, the operators believe that they can legally sell their products. However, the BFSA had invaded the cannabis store three days after the opening and the store was even temporarily closed, partly because no admission was requested from the BFSA to sell food and because the labels on the products were not bilingual. However, with the drug law, the store was not in violation. The manufacturer of the products and the store also had the necessary licences from the FAGG. However, the FPS Health would also have opened an investigation into the cannabis products and, among other things, the FAGG had to decide whether or not cannabis is prohibited as a commercial product. In any case, the number of shops selling so-called CBD products has only increased since then. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play in the investigation of the Public Health Office into the so-called CBD stores? How many have been opened? Is there a license from the FAGG? How many shops and products have already been checked? Did the products offered contain effectively only CBD or was THC also found? Has the FAGG taken a decision on the ban on the sale of cannabis products with only CBD as a commercial product? What's the verdict? Several vapour stores now also offer CBD patterns. Is that allowed? What is the state of your plan to regulate the medical use of CBD products?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u34	Madam President, Madam Minister, while we are today in a context of legalizing the sale of cannabis, for example in Canada, a phenomenon has been spreading for several months in Belgium. This is the sale of cannabidiol-based products (CBD) in some stores with street gables. As you know, CBD is a cannabis flower that contains less than 0.2% THC (tetrahydrocannabinol). As a result, it is not considered a drug, according to the Royal Ordinance regulating narcotic, psychotropic and soporific substances. This legal uncertainty therefore allows the CBD to be put on sale. In recent months, several stores offering this product have been created in our country. The press referred to several police and AFSCA checks, targeting this type of store, in order to verify that the THC content does not exceed the defined legal rate, as well as that no food containing CBD is sold, this being illegal in Europe. Two Montois establishments were checked in September 2018, as well as four cannabidiol shops in Namur and several brands located in the Brussels Region in October 2018, some in my municipality, Ixelles. Minister, how do you look at this phenomenon? What is your position regarding the sale of products containing CBD? Do you consider that regulatory measures are necessary at this stage? If so, which ones? According to the information available to you through cooperation between the various federal departments concerned, what were the results of the analyses of the samples taken from the controlled stores? Do you have any information on the possible impact of free consumption of CBD on the illicit use of cannabis? Finally, have you asked FPS Public Health to conduct inspections of products sold in commerce? If so, within what time limit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u35	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Calomne, various regulations apply to the supply of hemp plants and cannabidiol (CBD). One of the first reasons why it may be illegal in the trade concerns the possible presence of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in the hemp plant. For example, the Royal Decree of 6 September 2017 considers products with a total content of THC and THCA greater than 0,2% as narcotics. This makes them automatically subject to authorisation. This limit was set to enable the cultivation of hemp grown for fibre and it is actually a European limit. In turn, hemp-based foods are prohibited on the basis of the Royal Decree of 29 August 1997 on the manufacture and marketing of foodstuffs composed or containing plants or plant preparations. However, a derogation for certain foods may be requested from the Public Health Office. The limit for safe use of THC in foods is many times lower than that in the drug law. Derogations are not granted for use as herbal tea or infusion, even when THC levels are very low due to health risks. In addition, foods based on extracts of cannabidiol are considered novel food. The European Regulation These foods are not currently authorised in the European Union. These provisions have been accurately explained in a frequently asked questions prepared by the FPS Public Health and the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. I can give you this link. In all cases, it is prohibited to present such products as having medical properties. This would mean that these are drugs that should then be authorised and distributed only in pharmacies. This does not necessarily need to be mentioned on the packaging. Even a claim of medical property on an online site, on leaflets or orally would be problematic and could lead to seizure or prosecution. Cannabinoids are also prohibited in tobacco products: cigarettes, rolling tobacco, water pipe tobacco, etc., as well as in nicotine electronic cigarettes. Herbal smoking products containing cannabinoids with a concentration of less than 0.2% are permitted provided that: - the labelling contains the required health warnings; - these products are notified to the Public Health FPS (the notification must contain a certificate of analysis in order to verify whether these products do not fall within the scope of the narcotics legislation); - these products do not claim to be medicines; - these products do not contain any active concentrates of medical CBD. Local authorities, in particular police forces, can of course always call on the FAGG inspection services and the Public Health Office for advice or assistance in such controls, which are then organised together. You will recall that the opening of a new shop was announced in Brussels. Half an hour after the opening, the inspection services were there. That shop proved not to meet the conditions at all and was immediately closed. I am aware of several similar initiatives. So the police can ask our inspection services to assist. When our inspection services themselves notice something, they will carry out checks themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u36	Madam Secretary, I will certainly reread your answer. In my opinion, it falls into a grey zone. It must not be used as a food nor is it recognised as a medicinal product. So the question is how it can be sold. If it falls under 0.2 % THC, it may be, but the question remains as to what form it may be sold. There seems to be still a grey zone in this area, and I will certainly reread your answer to that in order to clarify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u38	Minister, according to news reports in the press, the number of births per Caesarean section has almost doubled in the world in 15 years, from 12 to 21 per cent between 2000 and 2015, even exceeding 40 per cent in 15 countries, including the Dominican Republic, Brazil, Egypt, Turkey, Venezuela, Chile, Colombia and Iran. This is not the first time that I have asked you about this problem, which continues to ask questions, the gynaecologists themselves questioning this "epidemic" in a dossier recently published in The Lancet. According to a study based on WHO and UNICEF figures, it is estimated that between 10 and 15 per cent of the caesarean section is absolutely necessary for medical reasons. Sixty per cent of the 169 countries reviewed are above this range, while one quarter of countries are below this range, endangering mothers and children. As the study coordinator Marleen Temmerman of the University of Ghent points out: "The sharp increase in caesarean sections mainly in affluent environments and without medical reasons is a problem because of the associated risks to mother and child. In cases where complications occur, Caesareans save lives, and we must promote women's access to this operation in poor areas, but we should not abuse it." Minister, this study is taking stock at the global level. I know that, for some time now, Belgium has been no exception to this high rate of Caesarean section. Do you have recent figures on practice in our country? Have any studies been conducted recently on the evolution of this rate in our country? Finally, how do you explain that this rate is always so high? In our last discussions on the subject, you had considered taking various initiatives in this context, namely awareness-raising campaigns, but also consultations with scientific associations as well as with doctors' unions. What follow-up has been given and what are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u39	Frédéric, the rate of Caesareans remains stable but is indeed high: 20.6 in 2013 and 20.8 in 2017 per cent births. The 2017 edition of Health at a Glance shows that we are 25th out of 33 countries, which means that we are among the highest figures. The OECD average is 27.9 Caesareans per 100 births. Our result, 20.8, is the same as that of France. Nevertheless, these relatively positive figures remain higher than the WHO recommendations. I do not wish to remain inactive in the face of this situation. An analysis of INAMI showed once again that there were significant disparities between hospitals. It is therefore planned to submit this analysis to industry professionals. They have already been asked to consider the actions to be taken. This was discussed with gynaecologists. It is not certain that the reason is always medically justified; hospitals have very high rates that are no longer explained by medical reasons. On the other hand, there are also hospital obstetric services where the rate is much lower. It depends on the team, the role of the midwife and gynaecologists. They would have agreed to immerse themselves in these figures and to look with their colleagues how they can explain them, especially the figures that are too high.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u40	I thank the minister for insisting on answering me. On the content, the minister simply confirms the concerns I have expressed. Indeed, if you tell me that the question has been asked of professionals in the sector whose gynaecologists and that an analysis is under way, it would be good to press them a little to obtain results and that we do not have to see, year after year, an increase with clearly, in some hospitals, an "overconsumption" of the practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u41	Madam Secretary, the cigaretteillo, an innovative tobacco product, is on the rise. That should represent a small thin cigar, but in fact it is just a cigarette with filter in disguise, replacing the paper around the cigarette with a tobacco leaf. It is a way of making cigarettes accessible in small quantities to start-ups. For example, since the smoke is covered by the category of cigarette and not by the category of cigarette according to the Royal Decree of 5 February 2016, there is no obligation to provide a minimum packaging of 20 pieces and it can be offered in small quantities, making it easily accessible. For example, Lucky Strike advertises in commercials for a package of 2.7 euros for ten pieces. Although it is true that the company is not yet able to supply the product, cigarillos are already on the market with competing brands. Because packages can be sold in smaller quantities, they are within reach for young people more quickly. Madam Secretary, what is the impact of the cigarillos on smoking prevention, especially for young people? How do you evaluate the attractiveness of cigarillos and the fact that the product can be sold in small quantities? How do you estimate the tax impact of the rise of the cigarillos, since they are not covered by the cigarette tax system? Do you have plans to address the cigarillos, both in terms of attractiveness and accessibility, specifically for young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u42	Mrs. Van Hoof, one is never too old to learn. I have heard that cigars and cigars are products that are completely encased with a cover of tobacco. That's not the case with a cigarette, there's the paper. So much for my knowledge. The fierce taste, image and price make the products fortunately not attractive to young people. The impact of cigars and cigars on young people's smoking behaviour is therefore also limited. I don't see the fiscal impact of the rise of cigarillos. It belongs to the domain of the Minister of Finance. My audit service has contacted the FPS Finance Services. However, they have not yet responded. If we get a response, we'll get them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u43	Tobacco manufacturers are getting creative. I have here a picture where you can see that the filter is covered with paper and the rest with tobacco to ensure that they can sell the product in small quantities. So there is a need for alertness. Cigarillo is on the market and it is a way of circumventing the rule that we must offer up to 20 products for cigarettes. I hope that the services will take this into account in the inspections and that they will appeal to tobacco manufacturers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u44	Madam Minister, during the discussion of your policy paper we discussed this matter briefly. Flemish Minister Vandeurzen has released 3 million extra for additional staff and equipment for residential care centres that accommodate young demented persons. I have already asked you a number of questions about this. The sector itself asks for a RIZIV convention, in the sense of the Huntington model. The benefits of such a convention are known: additional staffing framework, multidisciplinary work and attention to the support of carers. You said last time that you paid a visit to the field of work, where you were then given a quantified proposal. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. What are you going to do in concrete terms for better support for this target group? We are well advanced in the legislature. Can you give me a timing? You are talking about the convention of memory clinics, but the sector itself is not satisfied with it for various reasons and continues to insist on a convention in the sense of the Huntington model. Can you answer their question? Finally, what consultations do you currently have with your state colleagues to plan the problem in a coherent policy across all levels?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u45	Madam Minister, steps have already been taken at Flemish level to reduce the costs in residential care centres by providing for a flat on the invoice for residential care centres. That could start next year and is very important. After all, for a family faced with young dementia there are already a lot of costs, but if that is added, it is really not feasible. The problem also arises in hospitals. The Huntington Convention ensures that liaison figures are brought home, in the bathroom and in the hospital. By providing the forfait, from the Flemish government, this has not yet been met. The multidisciplinarity, the fact that there will be liaison figures to take care of the family and the hospital and residential care centers costs are important. Hence the plea for the Huntington Convention, which is also a perfect model for young dementia. Can you not reflect on this in order to conclude such a convention for young dementia?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u46	I asked the RIZIV for an answer, but the RIZIV failed to deliver an answer today. I'll tell you what I've done myself. I know that facilities have been put in place at the Flemish level in the residential care centres, but they are very young people, around 30 years old. We cannot go to residential care centres with them because of the age difference. The average age in residential care centres is increasing. I don't think it's ideal to put people in such an environment at such a young age. I asked Jo De Cock, the administrator-general of the RIZIV, to examine various options. In the cabinet, I appointed someone to examine the proposal for a convention. That is very difficult at first sight, but I am prepared to see what we can do specifically for this difficult group. After all, both in terms of guidance, care and financial support, this group appears to fall between the loopholes of the network, not least because of the once again very fragmented policy area. I have listed the powers of the Länder and of the federal level in this area. At federal level, that is very little, but we are, of course, consulting with the Länder. After all, it's all or nothing. It's not a fee or a frame or a guidance, it has to be an en-en-story. I assume, if I have not yet received an answer from the RIZIV, that there are no conclusions yet. I suggest you come back to this. I can't give you timing. Times are uncertain to give a timing. I can only assure you that we are working on it because it is an important group of people who face a very special problem. One does not yet know why someone develops young dementia at a young age. Further research is needed on this. People who have been together for a long time know that either of them or that they may one day get complaints, but with young people all this misery and anxiety is not obvious. As a result, the whole family is the victim, not least the children and the partner, who not only have to deal with the fact that a member of the family is very ill, but who are also faced with all the difficulties of guidance and care, and of course also with the financial concerns that come with it. I note that this matter does not interest every member of the committee, and that is regrettable, because it is an important issue. I would therefore like to ask for respect for this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u47	Madam Secretary, at least I'm very interested. I'm very involved with that group. I understand you're still looking for a solution. My only concern with my follow-up question was that the field of work itself let me know that it had received an answer, in particular about a convention with the memory clinics. However, this does not help those concerned, because it only lasts for one year. So the answer let them down. You report that you have not yet received an answer and that you are waiting for it. I understand that the field of work has already received an answer, but it did not respond to the needs. However, I am pleased to hear that you are concerned about this problem and that you want to do something about it. I'll put your answer back in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u48	Madam Secretary, the proposal for a convention with the memory clinics was apparently not sufficient. It is therefore a good thing that you continue to investigate this matter and that you clearly care about this target group that is growing ever larger. Five thousand patients have already been reported, which is considerable. It is a pity that this disease develops at a young age. After all, it is very difficult for a family to cope with such a situation. Thank you for your willingness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u49	Madam President, Madam Minister, it is my responsibility that the European Commission wishes to allow certain matters from the Health DG to be transferred to the Internal Market DG. For my group, health, including medicines and similar products, are not and should never be considered as any other service or product of the internal market. The economic crisis, the ageing of the population, technological advances and new health threats call into question the sustainability of European health systems. On the other hand, health inequalities are increasing between and within the EU Member States. The European Commission, as guardian of the Treaty, should play an important role in ensuring a high level of human health protection. This requires a strong and independent public health vision and the development of coherent policies to maintain this vision. Minister, since 2009, DG Health has been responsible for drug and medical device policy, in particular in order to harmonise pharmaceutical governance in the Member States and to facilitate emergency planning. To grant this burden again to the Internal Market Commissioner seems completely unjustified and represents a real step backwards. What position are you going to defend or have you defended at European level? What instructions have been given by your Government to our permanent representation in the technical meetings that will address this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u50	Mr Frédéric, I obviously share your concerns about this. There are rumours that DG Health should be removed from the internal market. From the outset, we sent a clear message that this scenario was absolutely unacceptable to Belgium. The Bulgarian Presidency put the future of health on the agenda of the European Council in Sofia on 23 April 2018. Belgium then made it clear that Health should remain on the agenda of the European Union and that the ministers responsible for health should discuss this agenda. Of course, it will be up to the future committee to organise itself internally, but we will continue to follow the matter closely and give instructions to stress the importance of having a well-established health policy within the European Commission and the Commission's administration. To do so, we will go through both the Council and our permanent representation. I think it is unacceptable that we should be swallowed up in a wider context and that there should no longer be a separate committee on public health, and that in times when public health is increasingly influenced not only by European issues, but also by more global issues, such as climate, air pollution and many other issues. In addition, we also have to work together with the European Medicines Agency. So that should remain separate. We believe that, as so often, there is pressure from other committees and that there are financial considerations within the European Commission, and that this is the reason why we need a pooling of powers here. But we do not agree with that at all. I went to the European Commission on Public Health last week, I think it was Friday. I must say that the committee's agenda is always well-stocked, with different subjects. I do not see how, given the importance, we could fit our agenda into a larger picture. We continue our work, particularly by seeking contacts with our neighbours. They share our belief that public health is essential and must be organised in an ad hoc committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u51	Minister, I thank you for this answer that I am fully satisfied with. I know that you will remain attentive to this matter, for which you will receive our full support. Indeed, medicines and health are not vulgar commodities. It is therefore important that a DG remain indexed to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u52	Mr Blanchart is not present for his question No. 27433. We'll see if Mrs. Fonck returns for her question No. 27438. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle has converted 27451 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u53	Mr Delannois is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u54	Madam Secretary, in October, the Labour Inspectorate invaded the largest private ambulance service, Ambuce Rescue Team. A lot was discovered there that was not kosher in the field of employment law conditions. For example, there would be too many hours a week to be paid too little. Did you know about that? What's your reaction to this? Do you recognize the problem with those ambulances? Are you planning to take steps, I presume, with Minister Kris Peeters? What will you do exactly? Are you prepared to invest more in the ambulance services, which are still suffering from a shortage of resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u55	That's a pretty topical question, Mrs. Dedry. I do not, of course, have access to the Labour Inspectorate's file, not to what was established by the Labour Inspectorate, nor to what was stated as a defence by the ambulance service. I do not make any substantive comments on this, because that remains part of the investigation and is for the services that are the responsibility of Minister Peeters. I fully agree with you that emergency medical services, which fall within my competence, should be subject to an investment priority within the competence of the Communities. That is why, at the beginning of this legislature, I started a process of improving the financing of urgent medical aid. The budget has tripled compared to the beginning of this legislature. I didn't just look at the ambulance services, I looked at the patient. Ambulance transport is an expensive business, on which we get a lot of reactions. The bill, which would have been dealt with here today, is intended to provide patients with a rate security of EUR 60 per intervention from 2019, even though the average is already higher than that amount today, namely EUR 65, and there are very large fluctuations in prices depending on the location where the ambulance comes from and the timing. Sometimes, for example, we are talking about EUR 500 to EUR 600, half of which is paid back by the sickness fund. This means that the patient is withdrawing a lot, but still has to pay a lot himself, because half of, for example, EUR 600 is still EUR 300. To subsidise the ambulance services, there was an envelope of €5.2 million at the beginning of the legislative period. In 2019, the grant envelope will increase to 68 million euros. We will end with EUR 73.1 million. That's a huge rise. Could it be more? Yes, because I asked for more, of course, because the needs in this area are very great. In any case, it means a massive injection. So far, the envelope has been distributed fairly linearly, without taking into account the number of services provided by the ambulance services. From 2019 onwards, the performance delivered will be taken into account in the weighting of the points system for the grants. The performance will be weighted on the basis of two points: the organisation of the permanence, which must be there of course, at a place of employment or not, and the number of activations or interventions. An activation fee will be paid per intervention. The amount of the activation fee will also take into account the type of service: urban and hence short distances or rural and hence longer distances, such as in rural areas. Finally, agreements with ambulance services are being renewed. Each agreement between ambulance services and the State specifies that ambulance services are required to organize emergency assistance in accordance with the legislation. All of this means that, for the first time in a long time, a response is provided to concerns in the area of ambulance services and emergency medical assistance. I realize that we are living in turbulent political times, but I would like to make a warm appeal to all the groups to come here tomorrow to approve at least the text on the subject by Mr Janssens. For many patients, it would make a difference. Now that we finally have resources, it would be good to be able to give them to the ambulance services as well. Provisions have been amended. For example, ambulance services would receive compensation, even if no one was being transported, and the permanence fees would be increased. The new scheme is particularly important for the patient. The patient has the right to know in advance how much an ambulance costs and that will now be the case with the proposed lump sum. That's not gonna surprise him or her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You can count on my support in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u57	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Van Camp's 27499, 27500, 27501, 27502 and 27503 have been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Muylle's 27545 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u58	Madam President, Minister, I asked this question a while ago. However, it remains important. At the moment, the bill is being discussed which would give parents of lifeless children the opportunity to register their lifeless child from 140 or 180 pregnancy days. After all, this is one of the ways to support parents of lifeless children in their mourning process. In addition to this possibility, however, the demand remains for the importance, opportunities and opportunities to provide specific guidance to these parents. They need it when processing this traumatic event. A multidisciplinary approach is proposed, including gynecologists, obstetricians, neonatists and midwives. In this sense, there is already a lot happening in the field of the supervision of parents of lifeless children. However, this guidance is not covered by any convention with the hospitals. The latter could, however, provide some financial compensation. This is emphasised by several experts. Madam Minister, you replied to my earlier question on a convention with possible funding for hospitals that you would consider whether funds could be found for this in the budget. I'll come to my questions. In the meantime, is there a special allowance by the RIZIV for the costs of accompaniment and support for parents of lifeless born children? Can they count on the same support and guidance as the parents of early-dead children? Have any additional resources been made available for this purpose? If not, why not? Are there guidelines for hospitals and care providers regarding the provision of information to parents about their rights and the possibilities of having their child buried or cremated and having their child registered in civil status? Is there any provision for compensation for the cases where an autopsy is proposed? An autopsy is often performed to determine the cause of death, often at the request of the hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u59	Madam President, Mrs Becq, I can answer your first question that the existing agreement concluded by the RIZIV with a number of hospitals on the follow-up to an unexpected and medical unexplained death of a child under 18 months of age has remained unchanged over the past two years. The target group of that agreement has therefore not been extended to lifeless children. As a result, compulsory health insurance does not currently provide for specific compensation for the psychosocial support of the parents of lifeless born children. Of course, parents can call upon consultations with a gynecologist, general practitioner and/or psychiatrist, which are largely covered by compulsory health insurance through the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind. In the case of hospitalization, the fees and daily rates that can be charged during hospitalization can also to some extent cover psychosocial support. In general, it is not always necessary to develop specific rules for the benefit of insurance in any particular problem where there may be a need for psychosocial counselling. At the beginning of 2019, it will be possible in general, at least on condition that the budget is approved, to compensate for a few sessions of psychological care for different target groups. Parents of inanimate children will also be able to rely on this general scheme for the reimbursement of sickness insurance in psychological care. In this way, psychological care will be more accessible to the parents of lifeless born children than is currently the case through the specific benefit in psychosocial counseling for parents of children died of cradle death. As far as your second question is concerned, there are no specific directives. To your third question, I can answer that there is currently no compensation for insurance in the cost of the autopsy of a lifeless born child. Why didn't all that happen? I have always asked your group for suggestions during the budget negotiations. I never found it in there. Never. Can I say that? Perhaps the exchange of information, in both directions, is not always optimal. That may happen to us, but I think you will have to take it with you to another government negotiation. When I'm there, I'll be able to give you my support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u60	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. The question was passed on. I asked you those two years ago. Then you said you'd take the question. Apparently, you left it there. You say that they can also deal with this aspect in the general context of psychological guidance. It is not only my question that shows that the need is there. My question is based on testimonies from the hospitals that are faced with it. They consider multidisciplinarity and a multidisciplinary approach to be important. If you keep up with the questions and the important issues in your cabinet, Madam Minister, then you can take that question with you to another budget negotiation. The Minister for Health bears the responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u61	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Muylle's 27549 and 27550 have been converted into written questions. Mr Van der Donkt and Mrs Van Peel are not present to put their questions or questions. 27558 and No 27559. Mrs Van Camp asks her questions. 27572 and 27578 out. Mrs Muylle put her question No. 27584 in a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u62	Madam Minister, I have already asked several questions in the past about the establishment of a central system of exchange of information between fertility centres in order to have effective control over the number of donations. The Law of 6 July 2007 stipulated that the King would develop a system for the exchange of information between fertility centres, in particular for the control of the restriction of donation. In an answer to a question about the same theme in May 2018, you indicated that the registration system is being continued, but that it is a complex exercise. However, you indicated that your services considered that a registration system is possible in accordance with GDPR legislation. The follow-up and feedback of important medical information on donor and donor children is now lacking. It's usually about information about hereditary diseases. If these are established shortly after birth, information can still be passed on. If it takes longer before a condition manifests itself, it goes wrong and there is no follow-up at all, neither from the donor, nor from the donor child, which prevents other donor children from being notified. Another difficult aspect is the number of donations. No information is available on this. Among other things in the media, by Mr Herman Tournaye, it was made clear that the number of donor children per donor cannot be controlled for privacy reasons. Where are we on the roll-out of an information exchange system? When will such a system enter into force? Are there any recent developments? Are there any stumbling blocks? What about the retroactive registration? Do you have an update of the figures relating to the number of inherited diseases transmitted, for the recent period 2015-2018? How are those concerned informed today? Do you have figures for the same period relating to the number of cases where the number of donor children per donor is exceeded?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u63	Ms Van Hoof, the integration of data on game donors into the Belgian Register for Assisted Procreation of BELRAP was also discussed following the migration of the register to healthdata.be. Because of its feasibility and timing, this is expected at a later stage, starting from 2020. A retrospective registration of a few years could be considered, but this will also require the cooperation of the fertility centres, which will be required. Our services do not have official data. Genetic problems in children conceived with donated gametes are reported ad hoc. In reply to your last question, I would like to point out that the health programmes of reproductive medicine comply a priori with the legal limits of the number of children that can be processed by one donor. There can only be a problem if a donor signs up consecutively in several centres without mentioning previous donations. So it is not a waterproof system. That is why it is important that a real register should be developed. Where appropriate, it could be virtually checked whether donors have fathered too many children. In any case, the integration of the register into health data.be will enable considerable progress to be made in this area. Since many registers are processed in healthdata.be, a sequence has been established, because not everything can be started at the same time. By the way, there is no doubt that this can be done organizationally, because there are only a limited number of fertility centres, at least if they want to cooperate. I assume that they will certainly do so, also in view of the demand of well-known fertility experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u64	Madam Minister, I assume that the integration of the register into health data.be will allow the link between DNA and hereditary diseases to be made. What am I supposed to do with that? The question is whether that is possible. As far as the number of donations per donor is concerned, I believe that the FPS should play a facilitating role in relation to fertility centres, so that a donor's child does not marry a brother or sister at a later date. After all, that is what this is about. Without a changed policy, that could happen, I'm afraid. My question, therefore, that there should be facilitation where possible remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u65	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 27738 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u66	Madam Secretary, Imitrex is a medicine that is used when someone has an attack of migraine or cluster headache that cannot be combated with ordinary painkillers. It is one of the medicines that are no longer available until February 2019. However, in some patients there appears to be no alternative medicinal product available. A number of patients now buy the medicine abroad, for example the Netherlands. According to my information, the Belgian market is a production problem, but the medicine is now available in the Netherlands. Meanwhile, a working group and a unique hotline were set up to report the temporary unavailability of a medicinal product. It is also clear, however, that not all pharmacists are sufficiently aware that they can obtain a limited quantity in the event of unavailability of certain medicinal products. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Will you take short-term measures to resolve the situation? If so, what measures are you considering? Do you also provide for reimbursement options when patients have to buy medicines abroad? I'm deriving that from your statement in the media, saying that the patient will never be the victim. How is it that certain medicines are available in the Netherlands or in another country, but not in Belgium, which leads to shortages for us? Can you also take measures to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u67	Mrs Dedry, a number of measures developed by the working group are already being applied, such as the use of the decision tree, which helps to determine the severity of the unavailability and to find possible solutions to minimise the negative impact on the patient. In addition, the creation of a platform will facilitate the exchange of unavailables between manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacists and the government. That platform is planned for the third quarter of 2019. In addition, in order to address the issue of quotas, a legislative proposal was drawn up, which was submitted to the European Commission for its opinion. Finally, we are also working on a solution whereby the patient is not affected by the additional costs when an unavailable medicinal product has to be imported from abroad. At present, a concession can only be granted if the medicinal product is imported directly by the responsible company itself, after application to and agreement of the FAGG. In the case of Imitrex this was not possible, as the responsible company had the same availability problems abroad. It was a mistake or a stop in the production line. The medicine was therefore not available abroad either. Of course, that's very annoying for the patient. The current rules do not therefore allow to meet the demand for reimbursement of any additional costs arising from the purchase of the medicinal product where it can still be found abroad, probably until the stock is exhausted there. We have already worked a lot on a global approach to inability to minimise the problems and not allow the patient to pay an additional price. The adaptation of the rules is ready. The unavailability of the Imitrex 6 mg subcutaneous syringes was due to a manufacturing problem at the manufacturer. As a result, insufficient lottery tickets could be released. The company has divided the remaining lots among the different Member States and has confirmed that Belgium will soon have 13 000 new packagings. The fact that the lottery tickets would not be equally divided between the different Member States is a new fact. It is difficult to find out why a particular country is being delivered before another country. That would have been the case with the Netherlands. The working group has therefore included this, he will make enquiries and contact the manufacturer. That has to be solved, because it is certainly not good for the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u68	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u69	Madam Minister, on Monday, 26 November, the results of a study conducted recently by more than 250 journalists from the International Consortium of Research Journalists throughout the world were announced. In Belgium Knack, De Tijd and Le Soir participated in the journalistic research. For example, it came to light that between January 2013 and July 2018, no less than 3 798 reports on implant incidents were transmitted to the FAGG in our country. The incidents range from poor labelling of errors in the instructions for use to serious technical defects that endanger patients. Since 2013, the FAGG has experienced 72 incidents with implants in which the patient has died. In three incidents, it was decided with great probability that the patient's death was linked to the implant. Neither the FAGG nor you revealed these incidents. Almost immediately after this alarming report, we learned that 1 458 Belgian women had their breast implants removed in 2017. Who thought that after the French PIP scandal with leaking breast implants in 2010 implants were better controlled and thus safe, the ball misses. Of course, when medicines have unwanted side effects, they are stopped. When one has a failing implant in one's body, then one has a problem. Implant Files figures also reveal that many surgery with knee or hip prostheses must be repeated in our country, for example because the patient experienced persistent pain or infections. Last year alone, 4 676 patients had to undergo such a new hip or knee implantation. In such a new operation, there is a greater risk of complications and the recovery takes longer. Of course, this means a serious additional price for our health insurance. When incidents occur in Belgium with implants or other medical devices, doctors and manufacturers are required by law to report this to the government. The FAGG shall analyse the notifications and impose the necessary measures and, if necessary, remove the medical devices from the market. Belgian patients are never told which incidents are reported, which medical devices are involved, how often they go wrong. However, it is up to the FAGG to provide the best information to the population. The RIZIV shall not receive systematic access to the incident reports. In case of failure, the manufacturer shall take measures. They announce it in so-called Field Safety Corrective Actions. The FAGG received no less than 530 such reports about 480 different implants between 2013 and 2017, but the patient also receives only a fraction of them. In the aftermath of the PIP scandal in France, the need for a registration system to trace implants was identified. Since 2014, we have regularly stressed the need for traceability, recently even in the Health Commission on 19 June last. Meanwhile, the system isn't there yet. Madam Secretary, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, why were these incidents not made public by the FAGG and yourself? You were obviously aware, the doctors and the RIZIV weren't. When were you informed? How many incidents have you been briefed on? What impact did these incidents have on the patients? Why did you not mention these incidents in previous questions from us? Secondly, why didn't you take action when reporting the incidents? We have been asking for the traceability of medical devices for years. Why hasn't action been taken before? Thirdly, how is it that the law on implants dates back to December 2013 and that there is no sensible system of traceability to date? You refer to tests, but almost five years seems to me to be a long period. Fourthly, why did you not at any time inform Parliament and/or the public? With the absence of the KBs on traceability and non-disclosure of the incidents, health damage was not only caused to the public, but also cost-driven health care. I would like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u70	Minister, a new investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), led in Belgium by Le Soir, Knack and De Tijd, focused on implants: hip, knee, breast implants, pacemakers, intraocular lenses, etc. If, in the majority of cases, these implants save lives or improve their quality, they may also present a certain danger. The PIP prosthetic scandal showed us that. According to the Consortium's analysis based on the U.S. database Maude, in ten years 1, 7 million people were injured in connection with implant installation and nearly 83,000 were killed. There were also close to 500,000 explantations, although it cannot be said that each explantation was linked to a deficient implant. Minister, following the PIP prosthetic scandal, it was decided to create a single traceability register in our country. It seems that four years later, the latter has not yet been able to see the light of day. Why? Are we therefore aware of the number of Belgians implanted each year and the number of incidents notified to AFMPS for each implant placed on the market? Can notifications be sent to healthcare professionals in case of recurring problems with an implant? According to journalists, it seems that "where the Americans broadcast all the reported incidents and where our French neighbours also provide a series of information, the AFMPS is ultra-discreet about incident reports". To which your firm replied: "It is important to inform the public in an appropriate way. This must be done in a readable and accessible manner and not necessarily by publishing all incident reports received". What, then, is the policy in this area? Why not mention these incidents in a specific form so that patients and healthcare professionals are informed of these elements before making decisions? According to information transmitted to journalists by AFMPS, nearly 4,000 incidents were reported between 2013 and July 2018. There has also been an increase in reports, from 530 in 2013 to 772 last year. This ranges from completely benign incidents to the death of the patient sometimes! How do you explain this increase in reporting? Furthermore, when the manufacturer becomes aware that an implant he markets is a problem, he must take what is called a "security corrective action" and inform his customers and/or users via a package leaflet. Based on figures provided by the AFMPS, 530 corrective actions have been identified since 2013. Until 2017, some notices were made public, but this has not been the case since then. How do you explain that? According to Hugues Malonne, one of the Directors General of the AFMPS, this situation is due to an overload of work that does not allow the Agency to carry out this mission. You will understand that this seems entirely unacceptable to us in view of the increase in reported incidents but also because of the experience with PIP prostheses. It is essential, even vital, that every actor, from the patient to the care professional, be aware of these elements in order to be able to make the best decision. Minister, do you intend to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u71	Madam Minister, I will not repeat what has already been said and asked. We have already discussed this in plenary. However, I would like to add a few more questions. Will you take the lead with Belgium in imposing stricter rules on manufacturers, such as the obligation to test a product in a clinical study before it is placed routinely? That is absolutely not the case today. The quality labels are questionable. I also have a question about informed consent. Wouldn't you require this through the patient's e-file on implants? At the moment, this is not happening in practice. I also have the suggestion of recognising the current victims and giving them a separate statute. Maybe you can get inspiration from the asbestos victims for that. I am, of course, talking about the people who have really been mismanaged, with very serious consequences. Finally, I would like to reiterate that it might be a good idea to automatically recognise serious complications in medical implants as a medical accident. There could then be compensation from the Medical Accidents Fund which could be fed by the implant manufacturers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u72	Madam President, I would like to thank the questioners for their questions. Mrs Van Hoof has already mentioned this in plenary. Thousands of patients are helped with implants. Implants save lives that couldn't be saved in the past. In addition, they can restore lost body functions. In most cases, therefore, they improve the patient's quality of life. As with all interventions, there is a risk of this too. It must be said that there is no zero risk in this area. I do believe, however, that this risk should be as low as possible. I have also said on several occasions that the insertion of an implant always presupposes that it is done wisely. This means that a particular implant is considered the best for that particular patient. Other "intentions" should not play a role in this choice. Use requires the necessary expertise to avoid any adverse effects. In addition to the quality of the implant, the question must also be asked whether a particular implant is best for a particular patient. This is a matter for judgment. The patient can't do this on his own. This is a task of the person who will place the implant. The expertise for placing the implant should also be maximum. It is unjustly insinuated that the incident report, which is drawn up whenever there is a complication or if problems with an implant are reported, would be secret. That's not true. Those reports shall be kept on the Agency's website, but not published in full. That is only the case in the United States. So it doesn't happen in other European countries either. It is said that the reports are difficult to read. I've asked the FAGG for some evidence. Are the reports that have been sent to me just the most complicated, to make me believe that it is not self-evident to interpret them? I don't know. In any case, this information will be sent to the doctor and to the hospital where the patient is being treated. The doctors have a crucial role to play. If they are notified of this, they must contact the patient themselves to ask if there are any complaints. The supervision after placing the implant must continue to be done by the doctor. At least information must be provided and an entry must be included in the patient's file. That's what happened. Remember the PIP scandal faced by Mr Onkelinx. Then all the women involved were contacted. The PIP scandal dates back to 2010, and you state, Mrs Jiroflée, that there are still many women who had to have their implants removed in 2017. There are still a number of PIP cases involved. After the call there was also a full refund, but you will remember from the discussions here that very few women have gone into it. A lot of women didn't jump in front of that. Eventually, having implants removed isn't nothing. Many women have decided to be checked and to have the implants removed only at the time of a leakage. So that part of the women is in it. Another part includes women whose body reacts to the implants. They do not tolerate the implants, their body emits those implants, they develop severe inflammation or there is hardness or embedding. It is not in my intention to scare, but sometimes it is rather lightly handled, as it is partly a fashion phenomenon. For example, very young women have implants, since nowadays apparently at least a C-cup is in fashion. Several young women even have breast enlargement before they have been pregnant, with all possible consequences after pregnancy, which, as you know, affects the cup size somewhat. The general practitioner has a role to play in this respect. Several patients have also asked me as a general practitioner where they can have their breasts enlarged and I have always pointed out to them their age and the possible dangers. Most of those patients haven't had implants applied, just because I pointed out to them that at such a young age, they shouldn't just mess with their breasts. Apparently, I'm one of the few doctors to mention that to patients in that sense. So it is true that too many breast implants had to be removed, for many reasons. Although no new PIP scandal has emerged, some of those removals are likely to be included. In addition, it concerns all accidents which may occur with implants. The safety and correction reports for implants are, of course, delivered to all hospitals through the Materio-Vigilance Points with a view to taking appropriate action, which is very important. You know that the FAGG and the RIZIV were reinforced. Since the beginning of this legislature, I have been committed to representing medical technology within the FAGG. A monitoring mechanism should therefore be developed, including transparency on funding. I've quadrupled the staff at the FAGG for the implant files and doubled at the RIZIV. We used to have pharmacists and doctors for medicines, but this is not so easy for implants: civil engineers are also involved, because of course there is a lot of technological ingenuity in it. As far as the Central Tracing Register is concerned, I have already said that they have been working on it for two years now, and it is really about the development phase, not the planning phase, of that Central Tracing Register. There is a complexity in the field of ICT, because there is already a register in every hospital, which must be linked to the Central Tracing Register. All systems should therefore be bundled into a system, but direct input by a hospital in the register should also be possible. However, the first test phase showed that there were still far too many shortcomings and that it was impossible for some hospitals to enter the Central Tracing Register. It then took a while to make all the adjustments, because there were many. The second test phase is still going on, which was last week. If it shows that there are not too many defects, then the Central Tracing Register will be complete. If any problems arise, the Agency shall inform all hospitals, which, thanks to their own tracking register, can inform patients through the hospital doctors. The government set up the Evaluation Committee for Medical Devices and Implants within the FAGG in 1999. In many cases the quota was not reached because the experts were absent. They were always getting older and older, falling out and no new people were found to sit on the committee. This committee is now reforming. However, I would like to stress that the services of the FAGG continued to evaluate the incident files and, if appropriate, gave me the necessary and useful advice to allow intervention to take place. For this purpose, the FAGG contacted the necessary external expertise to make a correct assessment of the files. A legal basis is currently being worked on to install a new committee following this procedure. That was before the government. Indeed, Belgium can ask for additional clinical trials, for example to accept the reimbursement, so only when it comes to a refund dossier. The CE label, which states that it is safe, is issued at European level and we cannot go back to that. We can only impose additional conditions when it comes to an application for reimbursement. You also know, however, that a refund is not always required. Especially when it comes to aesthetic interventions, fillers and implants in aesthetic interventions, there is no demand for reimbursement, because they know that they will not get one. I have been informed by an aesthetic surgeon who told me that a product with a CE label is assumed to be safe. But there have been no additional studies on this. There is also much to do in the leaks concerning implants about the entanglement of interests between industry and doctors. We did not wait for the Implant Files to introduce transparency. You will remember the discussions that took place around the Sunshine Act. We have therefore introduced a great deal of transparency. For us, a relationship between a doctor and the sector is possible, for example in the context of research or clinical trials. However, it must always be declared twice, namely by the healthcare provider concerned but also by the firm. The fees for these services should remain reasonable. In this respect, they have been able to view the data on BETRANSPARANT in our country. That platform was free of obligation at first, but it's already mandatory. On that platform it should be noted how much resources a surgeon or someone else gets from the firm. It should also always be explained what those resources are for. Is that to tell others how to use them? It's got to be reasonable, too. You've found the amounts. They go not only to surgeons but also to nurses and many other caregivers. If certain amounts are exceeded, as is the case in some cases, text and explanation is required. That is what is being monitored. All this was described in the Pact Medical Technology of 2016. At that time, it was rather boring that we took the lead in this matter. However, I believe that it was a good thing at the time. In the relevant committees of the RIZIV and the FAGG, it is the established rule that all members should systematically declare their conflicts of interest. For example, have studies already been carried out on that domain? Has a firm been involved in some kind of file or simply from the investigation? Those are matters that need to be declared. There were anonymous testimonies, but that's none of our business. One has to call it man and horse. It is easy to do so through the FAGG hotline, which is confidential. But anonymously and confidentially, we can't; we can't do anything with that. Anyway, I'm curious, but I haven't heard much about that. It is essential that the FAGG can only occur if reports are made. There is also the legal obligation for doctors to report incidents. I read that not everyone takes that seriously. The incidents are not always reported and that is a problem. There will certainly have to be a call to do so. Companies are also obliged to monitor these incidents and carry out the necessary actions on instructions from the Agency. The conditions for traceability and security are defined and verified at European level by the so-called notified bodies, which, of course, nobody knows what they are talking about. The task of the National Agencies is to inspect the notified bodies in accordance with the recognition rules that are also defined at European level. What if one wants to adjust, because there are complaints about the notified bodies? They wouldn't have enough knowledge or they wouldn't be impartial. We cannot act at national level. This must be done at European level. If we, as a Member State, were to take action against the notified bodies, we would be put on the spot, given the principle of the free movement of goods. I come to the role of the Medical Accidents Fund. If a patient believes that complications such as pain, inflammation, relocation, etc. are due to the implant or to the person who inserted it, he can already raise them through the Medical Accidents Fund. In a number of cases, it appears that this is the case. Therefore, we should not draw up separate regulations for this purpose. You know that the new European regulation on devices and implants was published last year. It shall enter into force in 2020. It strengthens the rules on safety and traceability. Clinical data are also more widely used in approval. The collection of clinical data once the implant is on the market is also intertwined. The rules for the recognition of notified bodies are also strengthened. Common inspections by several European Member States will be possible together, among other things. We will be better able to act if we can work together. These notified bodies will therefore need to make greater use of international expert panels whose advice cannot be ignored. You know that decision-making at European level is very slow. We always follow that up and have already introduced all the existing information into the Pact in 2016. The obligation will only apply from 2020. Of course, the subject was raised at the Council last Friday following the inquiry by 250 journalists in 36 countries. Among other things, Italy and France asked to pay due attention to the implementation of the Regulation by Member States by 2020. In fact, we are already complying with this. The European Commissioner has also advocated that one Member State should inform the other Member States of any developments, as is the case for medicines. Not all Member States have made the Agency responsible for the technical implants. That is already the case with us. The pharmaceutical agencies have a network and work together, including with the EEA. It would therefore be appropriate to cooperate better on technological implants and other technologies with electrical components such as defibrillators. In the event of incidents, the other Member States may also be informed immediately. The investigation has caused quite a swell at the European meeting. It was announced as a very big scandal, but it didn't turn out to be. However, it has brought to light points which deserve our attention. It is therefore a good thing that the issue is being followed up by several health ministers. Excuse me, Mr. Frédéric. I did not answer in French, but I must say that I am still tired. I speak more slowly in French, and I need more concentration. After the hours I worked, fortunately I'm not part of a union or I'll be on strike!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u73	Madam Secretary, we certainly understand that. In any case, thank you for your comprehensive answer. In general, we agree. There's still a lot of problems. You have also pointed out that the study points out, among other things, that if incidents are reported to a hospital, the doctors have the task of informing the people with such an implant. Whether that always happens or not, that's what we're guessing. Incidents must be reported by doctors, which is a legal obligation, but we are not sure if that actually happens. As far as the entanglement between doctors and industry is concerned, a number of measures have already been taken, but we are in favour of examining the unauthorized links even more thoroughly and of checking whether the legal framework, the Sunshine Act, is being respected and is sufficient. As far as notified bodies are concerned, you are bound by European agreements. You yourself say that this has caused the necessary deliracy and we believe that you should keep the item with your colleagues high on the European agenda. We also believe that after a long period of testing the central register, which makes all implants traceable, should finally come. In that sense, I shall table a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u74	Madam President, I would like to thank the minister for her response, despite her great fatigue due to the hyperactivity of the past few days. Nevertheless, Madam Minister, you will agree that we have nothing to do with it. Life goes on and we're here to ask our questions. I have received a fairly complete answer and I thank you for that. You have often referred in your remarks to the use of implants for aesthetic reasons. You mentioned your experience as a doctor. As a matter of particular concern, I would like to point out that some people use implants for purely medical reasons, for example, as a result of breast cancer. In this case, it cannot be said that it is purely aesthetic, even if it is the image that the woman can have of her body. I continue to be questioned because you say everything is set up to do the best work possible. I have no doubt about that, but I find that there are still a large number of incidents. It's not just because a woman wants to be better and have such a size of bra - I know less than you do in a hat, minister. It's not always for that reason. Some people are forced to have implants placed for restorative reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u75	When it comes to implants following breast cancer, they are always reimbursed. Of course, they were tested. The figures also indicate that they are implants made abroad. There were also problems with lenses but also with implants, mainly buttocks and jaws. This often happens during foreign travel. I have been told that quite a few complications only come to light upon return. Often these infections require the removal of the implant. I have been told that young women have bilimplants placed. I will not mention the country where this is happening in order not to provoke a diplomatic conflict. We can spare that as a toothache. On their return, they are almost in septic shock. The punk sometimes shoots out of their buttocks. Young women sometimes have to stay in an intensive ward for a while and undergo kidney dialysis due to septic shock. This is serious business. We really do not have a single story against that. Of course, they're being treated. This is increasingly happening during a holiday in countries outside Europe. It is about holidays in which you undergo a metamorphosis. We have already experienced a few times that people who developed a fat embolism due to liposuction abroad had to be repatriated. Some of them died because of this, by the way. All this in order to make it clear that this is not limited to Europe alone and that there are very serious risks to public health. We must be very vigilant about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. This is more pleasant than the two minutes in plenary. There's still a lot of work to be done for an informed consent. You didn't say anything about that. People do this far too little for implants. One does not get, in a manner of speaking, a package leaflet. The patients are very dependent on the information they seek themselves on the quality of an implant. There is therefore still work to be done on the protection of patients' rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u77	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karin Jiroflée and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Karin Jiroflée and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, and of Asylum and Migration, calls on the Government 1) to draw up the implementing acts of the Law of 15 December 2013 as soon as possible and to bring them into force by 1 April 2019 at the latest. The implementing acts shall at least ensure that: a. a mandatory registration of all placed medical implants, both from public health centres and private practices, indicating the origin of the implant, and this in a central register, managed by the Public Health Office. b. a follow-up procedure with regard to any problems and complications. c. a procedure for contacting patients who received an implant in case problems or complications become known; 2) implement the necessary reforms and reinforcements at the FAGG to address the problems identified; 3) to place the deficiencies of the current inspection system high on the European agenda through the notified bodies, moving away from the current self-checking system; 4) to examine with urgency whether there are any unauthorized links between doctors and industry. It is also necessary to check whether the legal framework (sunshine act) is respected here and whether this is sufficient. In any case, doctors should be prohibited from being reimbursed for the use of certain implants." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karin Jiroflée and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Karin Jiroflée and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, and Asylum and Migration, asks the government 1) that the decrees implementing the law of 15 December 2013 be drawn up as soon as possible to enter into force by 1 April 2019 at the latest. Such implementing orders shall provide as a minimum: a. the compulsory registration, in a central register managed by the Public Health FPS, of all medical implants placed, in both public and private hospitals, with the indication of the origin of the implant. b. a follow-up procedure for possible incidents and complications. c. a procedure for contact with patients who have received an implant, when incidents or complications are revealed. 2. to carry out the reforms and increase the number of staff required by the AFMPS to address the problems identified; 3. prioritise on the agenda of the European bodies the shortcomings of the existing control system through the notified bodies, so as to abandon the current system of self-checking; 4) to investigate urgently the existence of unauthorized links between doctors and industry. It is also appropriate to check whether the Sunshine Act is complied with and whether it is sufficient. It must in any case be prohibited for doctors to be paid for the use of certain implants." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Madam Minister, did I understand correctly that we now have to conclude the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u78	Madam President, I can only say that of the more than 70 oral questions tabled today, more than 50 have been postponed or converted into written questions. In answering oral questions, a lot of work gets done, not only by my administration, but also by my cabinet. Bon, it's a good thing we're through with that number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u79	Madam Secretary, your words will be included in the report. Let us hope that this is read by those for whom it is intended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u80	Indeed, Madam President, I say this for the sake of inclusion in the report, not for the Members of Parliament who are here today. Of course, I understand the absence of illness. The answer to oral questions, however, requires a great deal of work and a great deal was on the agenda today. We shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u81	Madam President, as I wish to discharge the Minister's time, who is now also in charge of Asylum and Migration – and I welcome this – I propose to turn my questions Nos. 27990 and 27997 into written questions. Anyway, you see I was there!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-11-54-commissie-ic1010x.u82	We have carefully noted a number of questions here and will deliver them to you, Madam Minister.
