ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u1	Minister, at the end of January the drones' purchase file was dealt with in the Army Procurement and Sales Committee. I have tabled a question to review in detail the decision-making process that has been taking place so far and to report back to Parliament on this. There are some bottlenecks again. I am not talking about preference for one candidate or another, but some elements again point to bias and direction of the political decision. We have a presentation that was presented to the Chief of Defense on 15 May 2017. That's only three months after sending the question list, which explored the market to see which drones might be eligible. Three months after the preliminary market exploration so is already unpacked with just one candidate. That's what the slide from the presentation proves. Note that it is not like the file of the F-16, where five possible candidates from the preliminary market exploration emerged. Here's only one. I'll show you that the information was wrong. I'm going over the elements. It is said that the Treasury Inspectorate confirms that in the note "Defense says only the U.S. drone could be certified and that there is a problem with the certification of the other drones." That actually means that the other drones could not be used above European airspace. That's wrong information. The cabinet was already informed in October last year that the certification of the other candidates would be in order. There is also a letter from Switzerland confirming that certification of the other candidates does not pose any problems. More importantly, it's like the certification of the American drone, which is currently the most problematic. It is also claimed that only the American drone can cooperate in the EU and NATO context. That doesn't add up either. The other drones mentioned were deployed during the international military operation in Mali and were also deployed in Poland to protect the NATO summit. So it is not true that these drones would not be able to cooperate at EU or NATO level. In addition, I would like to present this to you. The type of American drone we would buy, the Predator B, will be the least used in other European countries. That element also points to incorrect information. Another example of incorrect information is of more recent date. You said in the press last week that only one candidate meets the technical requirements. Now, in the synthesis note submitted to the Committee on Army Procurement and Sales, it is not my intention, of course, to read that document; I confine myself to the rebuttal of what you have said in the media. So not only that one American system meets the technical specifications; that is also the case with the other two drones, which have lost weight very quickly. Furthermore, you say that there is a problem with certification and that there is insufficient cooperation with the EU and NATO. I have just refuted these two elements. There is therefore false information. Let us take a look at the content of the American drone, which quickly got off the bus. That's the F-35 under the drones. It's the most expensive plane, almost three times as expensive as the competition. It is the heaviest device and the device with the greatest weapons potential, while our country needs the drone mainly for surveillance, intelligence and support operations. Another element has surfaced. On 28 February 2018, the colonel, who was responsible for the drone program B-Hunter, sent a letter to all MR ministers in the government, which we announced. He says: "Je nourris les plus fortes inquiétudes" about the purchasing process of drones. That purchasing procedure is called "tout à credit biasée," i.e. biased, and not objective. The facts are what they are. The file has been blocked by the government for quite some time. There's a reason. It is not just the Ecolo-Green Group, which points to the problematic situation, the same logic as when replacing the F-16s, characterized by bias and the very fast sending of a decision, based on false arguments and incorrect information. The file also lingers at government level. Since it is a large purchase dossier, even one of the largest in the past period, even though it is not of the same order as the file for the replacement of the F-16s, but still of EUR 226 million, it is necessary to ask whether the Defence Department is in a position to make real objective assessments when it comes to purchase files. Once again, a decision is sent. Once again, it's about taxpayers' money and not very little. Do you realize in the Defense Department that taxpayers' money is being spent? There must therefore be fair competition and all information must be provided, including to the Army Procurement and Sales Commission. Therefore, should the files of competitors, which were questioned in the preliminary market exploration phase, not be submitted to Parliament in full and in detail, what has not happened here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u2	Minister, the acquisition of MALE strategic drones is part of the strategic vision. In the capacitive portfolio section, the intelligence dimension clearly announced "two short-term MALE drones and four additional long-term European drones". The investment would amount to EUR 490 million. At the end of January, the Special Commission for Military Purchases and Sales had studied this acquisition. The House was then only able to decide on the American apparatus as the only possible option among the various candidates for such a market. It must be noted that many questions remained unanswered in this committee. Beyond budgetary, strategic and ethical issues, new elements have emerged in the press concerning this market, like the one relating to the replacement of F-16s. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Do these new revelations concerning the drone market, concerning potential hidden information, lead you to consider the suspension of other contracts already awarded by the Special Commission on Military Purchases and Sales? In addition, I thought I read in the press that the drone market had been suspended. The Prime Minister told us yesterday that this was not the case, and that it was not on the agenda. I would like to be informed of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u3	Mr Minister, the dossier that was submitted to us in camera included, you will agree, many areas of shadow, both from a technical and a budgetary point of view and from an ethical point of view, which you strongly criticized in the Special Committee. This issue has not given rise to a real public debate, yet it is a turning point and a major issue for the Belgian Defence of the future. It must be noted that these questions remained unanswered in the Special Committee. However, there is an urgent need for questions, particularly in the areas of aviation safety, international law and war. Nor is the cost of such a technology to be ignored. As my colleague Fernandez Fernandez has just pointed out, in addition to these budgetary, strategic and ethical issues, new elements have emerged in the press. The Defence had referred to the difficulties in obtaining a European certificate for the other candidates. According to the Israeli candidate, this information would not be accurate. For the company, information has been hidden from your firm, and therefore from Parliament, in this file. The firm would have clearly notified on several occasions that the certification of its appliances was in order. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Is it true that the Israeli firm has told your department that it has a European certificate? Does your firm know about this? What about the status of this market, when we learn from the press that the Council of Ministers has not yet taken a decision on the purchase of these drones, and that the market has been suspended? Will you, here too, order an independent audit to shed light on this file? In the meantime, will this contract be suspended? Will this deal be brought back to the special committee if it turns out that not all the possibilities have once again been exposed to our assembly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u4	Madam President, Minister, from our point of view there are a lot of questions about the dossier. The introduction was given by Mr De Vriendt a great deal earlier. Nevertheless, I would like to repeat myself. During the pre-phase, between February 2017 and May 2017, i.e. after three months, only one supplier appeared to have been prevented from doing so. In the Army Purchases and Sales Commission, it appeared that this had already become clear in the press through various references that this was apparently related to the certification of these drones. That is also apparent from the documents, but I will not elaborate on that. Nevertheless, apparently one of the providers, for example already between May 2017 and the further steps in the file, in October 2017, you or the Defence Staff, following the files, had notified that there were no problems with the certificates. A letter had also come from Switzerland stating that the certification would be in order. One of the providers, for example, is putting the appliances in place in Mali, where our country also operates, in addition to or repetition of what Mr De Vriendt has explained. They are also used in Poland, for example. Despite the above, the motivation to keep only one supplier on board was still about the certification. That is a first point. In my second point I would like to mention the fact that the price of the aircraft is the most expensive. Apparently, the price is three times higher than the price of the other aircraft. The motivation therefore raises questions for me. After all, it is about the largest device and the device that........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That has also been highlighted in the press. I would therefore like to ask questions about arms. The question before the file or the note is what exactly were the starting points for acquiring these drones. Is it effective reconnaissance or is there more to it? In a press release, you have made a distinction between what was made in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales and what you yourself stated in the press. Apparently, the two other providers were not chosen on the basis of technical aspects such as flight altitude, speed and payload. You quoted this, but it was not included in the motivation. The question arises as to what the right reasons are? I'll come to my questions. How do you explain the contradiction between the note, which was discussed in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, and your statements in the press on motivation? How exactly did the procedure take place from February, or more specifically from May, when it was decided to keep only one provider on board, until today? Can you submit the reports demonstrating the technical deficiencies of the other providers and on the basis of which they were no longer kept on board? One of the providers has notified you of the certification. Did that message get to you? If so, when? If the message, that certification would not be a problem, was clear, would I have liked to know why the procedure was not renewed with all three providers? In the Army Purchases and Sales Commission, this is the motivation that has been put forward. A further question is separate from the current procedure. Is the luminaire to arm the drones already present? After all, doubt is being sown about that presence. Are the drones fully ready to arm? I'm not talking about buying the weapons themselves. I am only talking about the aircraft themselves and whether they can be armed directly. My last question has already been asked by colleagues. Will you suspend this procedure until there is clarity about all these questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u5	Madam President, Minister, on January 30th, you presented a dossier concerning the purchase of armable drones – that's how it was presented to us – and no armed drones. At this meeting, only one supplier was presented: the American General Atomics. You have to be a good man with you, Minister. The armable nature of drones was already present in your strategic vision and in the military programming law that implemented it from a legal point of view. We must be clear: we did not find out that the Defence was going to buy drones at the time of the presentation of the case before the Military Purchases Commission. This has been the subject of public debate. We could all have offended ourselves on the possible provision of Armable Drone Defence at that time. What is problematic is the opacity of the decision taken in the Military Purchases Commission, which will then be taken by the government. This is induced by the confidential nature of the documents exchanged between the House and the government. I am not going back to the in camera of the parliamentary meeting. We systematically call for the Military Procurement Committee to be held in public, as provided for in Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The uniqueness of the candidate who was presented is problematic. Meanwhile, parliamentarians of the majority, some of whom are here, announced that the file, such as the 34 bomber fighters' purchase file, was blocked at the executive level. I am not going to go back to the problems my colleague Mr. De Vriendt explained very well. A problem with the certification for the European airspace of the competitors of the General Atomics drone was presented in the Military Purchases Committee. That turns out to be wrong. Mr. Minister, was Colonel Letten responsible for the drafting and/or monitoring of this drone market? If it wasn't him, who was the officer in charge? Are you considering declassifying the document that served as the basis for discussion before the House's Military Procurement Commission last January? I think that for the public and the press that follows us, it would be interesting if this document could be shared. With a view to transparency and in order to shed light on this and all the others, do you intend to be in favour of our future meetings of the Military Procurement Committee now being held in public by default, in order to avoid any form of spreading rumours and others? I think it would be in our best interest to make this decision together. Can you recall here and in public the main reasons why you chose the most expensive, heaviest, least European and most armable aircraft, even though the formal decision to arm our drones has not yet been taken? That is where there is a controversy that you absolutely must lift today. The choice of armable drones has been made. But there's a doubt. Do General Atomics drones require a technical modification to be fitted with bombs and weapons? A technical change such as the purchase of technical modification equipment must be brought before the Military Purchases Commission? It's very important that you can answer us here. Some feel that the drone is armable immediately and that we would have bought a cat in a bag. We would have bought an armed drone when it was sold to us as a armable drone. It's fundamentally different. This Chamber is in the process of conducting a general reflection on armed drones. We have, as recently as 15 days ago, conducted hearings of experts and military personnel on this issue. Answer this question: are these armable and unarmed drones that the Military Purchases Commission asked you to buy? I repeat this fundamental argument that Mr. De Vriendt has advanced. In the press, you said that technically, only General Atomics' drone was valid. No, the document sent to us by your firm specifies that three systems are technically valid. It is our relationship with NATO and, incidentally, the European Union that justifies the choice of American drone. Could you please re-explain how technically, for you, only the U.S. drone was valid, while the document you sent us makes it clear that at least two other systems are technically valid? My last question is similar to the one I asked a Defence representative at the drone hearings. The choice of an American drone with a communication system that is specific and essential – since without a secure communication system, there is no drone – does not preempt the choice that Defence will make for its 34 fighter bombers? Indeed, integrated secure communication protocols have become crucial in the type of action to which these drones are intended. The bomber fighters will obviously communicate with the drones. If we choose General Atomics' U.S. drone, we will have to make sure that the 34 bomber fighters, if they are French for example, will be able to communicate with the U.S. drone. However, communication protocols are the very basis for the effectiveness of an action involving bombers and drones. Should we not make this choice together, since we would have to buy a drone that communicates with a secure American system and a bomber fighter that operates with a secure French or British communication system – the only two candidates that remain in the running for the market of the century?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u6	Mr Minister, in addition to the serious lies, information retention and conflicts of interest found in the F-16 replacement file, there are obviously serious problems in the procurement of the 4 drones for an amount of EUR 226 million. Only one proposal was made to the Military Procurement Committee and other manufacturers were advised that their drones could not be certified. This kind of reminds us of these false job tests for which a profile of the person to be hired is drawn up based on the profile of the person who has already been decided to be hired. Minister, with respect to the reasons for selection and non-selection, how is it that only three companies made a proposal? Why are there no European manufacturers among these proposals? What were the criteria that kept only one drone, the U.S. drone? Is it an opportunity to cooperate with NATO and European allies? Is this linked to European certification, as was told to the Israeli manufacturer Elbit? Has the chosen drone obtained this certification? Is it linked to another criterion, such as making it a combat drone? As far as the attitude of the army is concerned, has it also made a misjudgement in this matter? As De Morgen says, has the army hidden any information from you about drones? Did you get all the information? If so, does it make sense to have only one manufacturer? As far as the arming of drones is concerned, you claim to buy surveillance drones when they are combat drones that can be equipped with the same bombs as the F-16s. Does the drone need additional equipment to carry these bombs, as you say or is it ready for combat, as indicated by a note from the Finance Inspectorate sent to you on January 19th? The deployment of armed drones – this is a political issue that normally needs to be debated in Parliament! – Is it a fundamental task for the defence of Belgian territory and of the population? With respect to conflicts of interest, have you and your firm been under pressure from any of the three firms that made an offer? Have there been any direct contacts between your firm and the Elbit builder, as we can hear? Can you give us a list of all the formal or informal contacts that you and your firm members had with the three firms that made an offer? With regard to transparency in general, in view of the serious problems of military procurement in both the F-16 and drone files, does it make sense to keep a Military Procurement Commission behind closed doors? Shouldn't we open it, make it a public committee, with the possibility for all Members of this House to be members of it and to intervene, even without the right to vote? I am thinking in particular of the Members of the PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u7	Madam President, Minister, on many occasions I have welcomed the development of a strategic vision and military programming legislation. In this strategic vision and in the law of military programming that I have before me, there is a component – a dimension, as you call it – "Intelligence-Cyber-influence" in which it is proposed to buy reconnaissance drones. It happens that you offered us one choice, that is, this American Sky Guardian. I recall that the Sky Guardian is the sweet euphemism that we use in Europe to buy a material that the Americans call the Reaper, that is, "the mower". That's the name of the same device in the United States. Simply because European public opinion does not like this type of term, it has been painted and called Sky Guardian, which is much more sympathetic. It is actually indicated, from the start, in the strategic vision that it is armable. On the other hand, I think these are two different concepts. It is either surveillance equipment, which takes photos and brings back information, or a weapon of attack at a distance that allows to conduct combat while remaining far away from the battlefield. These are concepts which, for me, are completely different and which deserve totally different political debates. When the army first sets up attack drones, it obviously raises a whole series of questions. I do not have an immediate or definitive answer to these questions, but in democracy it deserves an in-depth debate because it is a evolution of completely different paradigms in the way we wage war. Therefore, this raises ethical, legal and political questions. All European countries are affected by these debates. When I was concerned that we were being sold one material for another and that we did not have this debate – since it was stated so much in the chapter "Surveillance, intelligence, cyber-influence" of your strategic vision as in the law of military programming – you reassured me by saying: "Mr Dallemagne, there are not all the pieces". And you suggested that a market had to be revived for that. That is what you said to me in plenary session, and that was an extremely important element for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u8	I remind you that this was a government decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u9	I read what I have in front of my eyes: "We should add technical pieces that we don't order today." I took your words back because they're important. So I thought we didn't have the equipment. However, I read in the Finance Inspectorate's note that, within the framework of these systems, these Sky Guardians must be equipped with all the equipment in order to allow kinetic support, i.e. an attack with armament. The finance inspector contradicts you. He says this equipment is complete. It is also known that armaments for these drones already exist in Belgium, since the same bombs equip the F-16s. Therefore, if we buy this equipment, we would de facto have all the equipment that allows us to have attack drones. Minister, I hear two different versions and I really want clarity. On the one hand, you reassure me that these are not yet attack drones and, on the other hand, the finance inspector says that all the equipment is there. In the meantime, I have also asked this question publicly. And, officials of the Defence, who are very familiar with the drone file, wrote to me: "I am outraged by the turn of this case and the manipulation orchestrated by the Defense". This confirms that we did not have to have drones of attack, that it was an option desired by some people, some officials of the Defence. From the moment the attack drones were chosen from the outset, the choice was greatly reduced and one was almost obliged to buy the American Reaper, the Sky Guardian, as it is called in Belgium. Minister, if I have the right explanations, justifications and if there is a serious debate, in which we do not have the impression that some of the truth is hidden from us, I can agree with certain considerations or conclusions. However, I find it unpleasant that we are being sold weapons of attack by telling us that they are surveillance equipment. In fact, I repeat the words of the head of defence: "We are being sold bezeled rifles by telling us that we are only going to use the bezel, but the rifle is complete. Just buy the cartridges." In fact, the cartridges already exist since they are the ones that equip the F-16s. I would like to see all the elements on the table in this dossier to allow for a discussion on the possible future use of attack drones by Belgium. This is a major development. It is well known that in Germany, for example, this has caused political problems. We know that in France, we made opposite choices. Here in Belgium, we don't even have the debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as always I am at Parliament's disposal, more quickly than actually requested, but I must say that, when I look at today's questions, I am being strengthened in my belief that there must be clear divisions between politics and the technicians involved in this type of dossier. I also do not accept the fact that the people who are doing their job on a daily basis want to do this properly and who are trying to ensure that Defense, for the future of ourselves and our children, are repeatedly, without cause, fingered for anything, for giving false information and so on. Colonel Cruysberghs managed this file in the best possible way and made the best possible choices. He has also tried to provide us with the best information to make a sound decision. I would therefore like to ask for a little restraint before you allow all kinds of lobbyists to take the lead. Even though they have the rank of colonel or general and are consultants for Elbit. That is precisely to say that we must dare to go back to the elements that arise in a dossier. I'll go over those elements with you. First of all, what stage are we at today? Did we tell General Atomics today he can deliver? No. We are at the stage of the application prior to an agreement. My proposal to the government is to be ordered to conclude a contract from state to state with regard to the acquisition of two systems of MALE drones. That doesn't mean we've already bought them. We are going to negotiate the price, the conditions, the training, the extent to which our industry can participate in such an important programme. As you know, these elements are always very important to me. Let me be very clear: if you really think that, on the basis of the meeting with one or two lobbyists, we as politicians can form an opinion on the certification or whatever with regard to drone specifications, you can do so, as in the past. That's not the way I handle it, not this file, not my other files. Having said that, we held the debate on the drones on 30 January in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. A positive opinion emerged from that meeting. I would also like to say, for the record, that some of the people who are asking questions here today were also present. They took an active part in that meeting. Today, however, people are also asking questions here. They are even in the lead who are not present at the time when they are given access to and transparency about these types of files. At that place, where every question can be answered and answered, they were not present. With the acquisition of the MALE drones (Medium Altitude Long Endurance), we will join with the Belgian Defense Department in the future. Drones and unmanned harnesses will occupy an ever greater place in modern warfare. That is something that is also reflected in our other debate. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing here is connecting with the future. At the European-Atlantic level, the main capacity gaps are in strategic supporting capabilities, the strategic drivers. The Strategic Vision for Defence states on page 3: "Our country will contribute to these joint European strategic agents that enable European autonomous military deployment on the European periphery while strengthening the capabilities of the transatlantic partnership." Recon drones are part of that. The Strategic Vision also states that investment will be made through participation in the preferential European development programme with the aim of acquiring four additional devices. That's on page 95 of the Strategic Vision. You all know that Eurodrone is still on the drawing board. So, Mr Van Hees, if you are asking why we are not going with a European constructor, the answer is that there is no European MALE drone today. We are a candidate to participate in the development and we are following that process. More specifically, we are following the development of the euro-MALE. We are observers in the MALE RPAS program of the OCCAR. The government has decided to fill in the capacity gap through a purchase to further develop the necessary drone know-how within Defense. So we can wait five or ten years until those new drones are available and in the meantime we can't measure our knowledge or we can also provide delivery as soon as possible from 2021, if I'm not mistaken start to own that capacity. For MALE, Defence will work in two phases with, first, an off-the-shelf purchase of two existing systems. In a second phase, it will contribute to the European MALE Development Programme. The issue we are debating today is the short-term purchase of two off-the-shelf systems, four aircraft. Delivery of the first European MALE is not expected until 2025. The MALE drone that Defense wants to purchase is used for reconnaissance and for gathering information in operation theatres. The system must be armorable, but we do not buy weapons in the current file. Mr Dallemagne, listen carefully now. A new government decision is required to equip the system with weapons. I will literally read you the relevant piece of the Strategic Vision, so that it is clear to everyone that it is not new. On page 96 of the Strategic Vision, it says: "Our MALE drones will include the possibility to act armed. However, an additional government decision must first be taken on the effective armament and the associated operating cost for ammunition." The Strategic Vision also shows why that makes sense. I quote again: 'Other countries that have this type of drone, namely France, the United Kingdom and Italy, have also, from their integration into Defence, left open the option of using tactical fire support. Meanwhile, the British and Italian governments have decided to arm their drones effectively." The Strategic Vision is now two years old. Today we have to see that the French too have taken that step. Mr Dallemagne, I confirm what I said on 8 February, that the technical parts, i.e. the interface between aircraft and armaments, will not be acquired under this programme. It would therefore be impossible at this stage to use an armed drone. This is not in contradiction with what the finance inspector says, which speaks of provisions on the plane itself which, once the decision has been made, make the aircraft armable. Let us make an analogy with the cars for which the manufacturers provide, in the wiring, a connector allowing easily to install a trailer attachment, even if this attachment is not installed of origin. Do you understand? There's a forecast, but there's no connection. To continue with this image, we should turn to the government to control the trailer attachment and trailer. Our military need is therefore a drone for intelligence gathering which, after approval by the government and after the purchase of the necessary equipment, can be armed. However, we are not doing it alone. The drone we are aiming for must be interoperable with our NATO and EU partners. The core of the system within which we work is the Link-16. Mr Hellings, I just asked for the information. The two candidates who are in the procedure can use the Link-16 as well as a candidate who is not in the procedure and who can also do so. So there's no problem at this level. With these parameters in mind, a request for information (RFI) was sent out on 9 February 2017. I can confirm that this document was not drawn up by Colonel Letten. Despite the multiple devices at their disposal, three manufacturers have each offered a device. Once a slide appeared and information disappeared. According to our first market explorations at the time, there were several devices, but only three manufacturers have each offered a device. The first aircraft is the Heron TP, produced by Israel Aerospace Industries from Israel. The second is the MQ-9B Sky Guardian, produced by General Atomics Aeronautical Systems from the United States. The third is the Hermes 900, built by Elbit Systems, also an Israeli company. By the way, Mr Dallemagne, I have just been told that there is a fundamental difference between the Reaper and the Sky Guardian at technical level. This is about the separation of the different systems. The piece aviation depends on the piece weapons and vice versa. The Sky Guardian has a bit of the same background but is not the same as a Reaper. If you have any additional questions, the Colonel will answer you. The response to the RFI was received on 3 March 2017, as regards Elbit and General Atomics and on 10 April, as regards IAI. In addition, through an iterative process, the Defence Staff had several discussions with these producers, whether or not through their Belgian representatives and the States concerned. There were contacts. I think it is normal that, in an RFI procedure, there should be contacts between the staff and the suppliers, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u11	So we're going to have a list of official and informal contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u12	There are contacts that are normal. We ask questions and we get answers. Through this RFI and the repeated contacts, the Defence Staff has collected the maximum possible information. The purpose of an RFI is to gather the information that the manufacturer wishes to provide on the existing equipment in the market. So this is not an RfGP – let's be clear! – that is, we do not expect an offer from a government agency. The RFI also does not constitute a special specification. After the collection of information on what exists, the Defense Staff must compare this with what is needed. This has been done by the Defence Staff on the basis of a number of parameters: the military performance which concretely means the altitude, speed, payload and autonomy; interoperability; the partnerships and, finally, the price, if available. As far as the price is concerned, we must be careful in what we say. They always say it's the most expensive. I'm not sure! The price is determined only during the negotiations. Here, too, we must be careful with such explanations. It sounds good in the media when they say it's the toughest and most expensive. I do not speak about this, but we must be very careful with that kind of information if it has not been verified. Mr De Vriendt, when I said 'technical' I meant operational, the operational needs. In the media people sometimes say a little faster than fast. It is true, as has been said in committee, that they can all do it. Anyone present in committee will be able to confirm that we have been very clear about this in committee. Interoperability also means that the drones must be able to communicate securely and at a fixed standard with all systems deployed on the operating stage. When we look at the needs, we see that one of the three devices fails because it does not meet the pre-defined needs in terms of maximum flight altitude, speed and payload. The question is also: how fast can a device go in and out of an operating zone, and at what height can it go to be free from possible enemy fire? On the basis of this finding, the Hermes 900 is no longer relevant. The fact that the company had told us that it had taken steps to obtain certification in order to fly over Switzerland did not play any role. To date, none of the candidates are certified for Europe. In committee, I have already explained that a Swiss certification does not exactly correspond to a European certification. The Sky Guardians are also responsible for the UK. We said that the Hermes 900 was too light, it did not have enough load capacity. Besides, he was too slow and didn't fly high enough. He couldn't stay in the air long enough. He didn't have enough autonomy. We note that no one in Europe is working with the Heron TP today. The German defence staff has indicated their interest, but the new German government has not yet given a ruling on this matter. A partnership in the field of logistics and operational cooperation, with France, the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain, will then be closest to the envisaged European NATO cooperation. These countries are all flying with the MQ-9 family. That is why, in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, and to the government, I have proposed working gov2gov sole source with the United States. That is to say, I request permission to negotiate with the United States on the acquisition of MQ-9B. We're not the only ones who worked that way. France and the United Kingdom also did so. The Netherlands, which has a new government, is still in the process of defining its strategy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u13	Minister, I am afraid your answer cannot guarantee us that the procurement procedure has been carried out objectively on the basis of the correct information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u14	Allow me to add a small technical correction. At the moment, there is no purchase procedure. However, there is a proposal of mine to do a certain type of procurement procedure, in particular sole source government to government. That is the current situation. There is therefore no procurement procedure today. You must be aware that we are working on a device that will collect intelligence and that will also be used above our country and above Europe. You should then ask yourself which partners you want to do this with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u15	Mr Minister, the fact that a market survey is taking place and the fact that a dossier is being presented to the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales is, of course, intended to buy drones. We agree on that, don't we? So we're moving into the procedure. You have confirmed that we will negotiate with only one candidate, with the intention of checking whether we can purchase the drones from that candidate. So this procedure leads to purchase, which we do not need to have a semantic discussion about? Moreover, for us it is not about which of the different candidates is or is not the best. We are talking about transparency, objective information and the right arguments. In this respect, you have a very serious problem. After all, on 15 May 2017, only one candidate will be put forward. This is done, among other things, on the basis of the certification, which you did not respond to in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u16	Mr De Vriendt, I have clearly raised a number of technical issues. It is also an opportunity choice, but I would like to go into the technical aspects in greater depth. I can support you all day about the certification or non-certification. I said in my reply that none of the three candidates have the certificates today. I received a letter from Switzerland on 1 February 2018 stating that the certification process in Switzerland was started with the Israeli authority. That was two days after the committee meeting. I am very tired of the fact that our people who are trying very hard to work are objectively drawing up a dossier, giving all the information and making the effort to come to committee are always being attacked. That is simply not correct and intellectually unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u17	Minister, the truth is that for much longer than 1 February 2018, the Defence Department knew that certification for the other candidate drones would be fine. That's the truth! We are talking about 1 October 2017. In the Army Purchases and Sales Commission, there is still the argument that there is a problem with certification. (Protests from Mr Vandeput) My associate was there and so was Benoit Hellings. Besides, I'm not a member of that committee. Our group sits on the committee and is represented by Benoit Hellings. Mr Hellings attended a small part of the committee meeting. We also have an employee, who was constantly there. We have all the documents, so we have enough to speak on them. As far as cooperation between the European Union and NATO is concerned, you are talking about the MQ-9 family, but you do not discuss the distinction between the A and the B. You want to buy the B. The other countries in your countries mainly have the A. The difference is that the B is difficult to certify over densely populated areas and is therefore difficult to use. You also confirm that we need the drone in particular to gather intelligence. Then you will have to explain to me why, immediately after the market exploration, the Defense Department is using the toughest American drone, which is fully armable, although we need the drone mainly for intelligence and that the political decision to arm drones is not yet taken. Moreover, a political decision is needed to do so. I'll finish my reasoning. The worst is that a European development programme for European drones is on the way, where our country wants to join. Why do you want to buy the most heavily armed American drone at this stage, which is also the most expensive aircraft, when at the moment we need only a drone for intelligence and I repeat, the drone development programme in Europe is on the way? That doesn't make any sense. In addition, you're saying that Colonel Letten didn't send the information document. That's right, but is he involved in this file? That's what I want to know. The answer is yes, Minister. That same Colonel Letten..................................................................................................................................................................... I therefore regret that, at the request of a number of colleagues, you are not telling the truth immediately, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u18	Madam President, I apologise, but this is a personal fact. It's getting personal. I'm tired of it! I apologize, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u19	There will be no excuses at all. Let me finish, Minister. You were asked a question about Colonel Letten's involvement, to which you replied that Colonel Letten did not draw up that document. You didn't mention, however, that he was involved in that file. A handful of people in the Defense Department are involved, Colonel Letten is one of them. If you deny that, I will go one step further and show you the document, because I have it with me. It is far from reassuring that, in a file in which we need a drone for intelligence, we land on the basis of a piece of incorrect information, withheld or misinformation, about an American drone, which has yet to be negotiated, according to previous sales procedures and prices circulating, three times as expensive as competition. You say you'll try to adjust a sleeve. The price circulating is EUR 120 million for six drones, while we are talking here about 226 million for four drones. That's a significant difference. You're saying I'm getting worked up in front of the lobbyists' cart. That's not right. We base ourselves on the documents to show that false arguments are being re-screened and a preliminary choice is being made for one of the candidates, which cannot be objectively justified. The fact that the file is blocked by the government, Minister, also has a reason. For you, they are all lobbyists, including the colonel involved who is responsible for the current drone program. But they are people with knowledge who write to politics to express their concern about the procedure. We do the same, together with other opposition parties. You move all that aside and say that this is lobbying. While we have just shown, on the basis of objective elements of the dossier, that the procedure does not present the right objective arguments with regard to politicians, including the members of the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. Again, we ask that the file be reopened in the Army Procurement Committee. All those involved in the Defense Department must be present. We also want to know about the market exploration, about the three candidates who were questioned. For us, the conclusion can be perfect that we do not buy any of the three, because there are insufficient arguments for spending on our taxpayers' money. So there's a possibility. I'm not saying it has to be, but it can be. I would like to make it clear that we are not dealing with one of the three candidates to counter your accusation of lobbying. For the sake of clarity, we believe that a European programme on drones is being developed. For our group, the drones are a capacity that we need on our own. I am very clear on that. That's a capacity gap in Europe. By the way, you rightly projected it. We fully agree with that. Only we want to make a purchase based on fair competition and with objective elements. If we do not have a valid candidate at the moment, that is also a conclusion that we must be able to draw. It is not a question of buying as quickly as possible. After all, we are dealing here with taxpayers' money. It's not about buying from the preferred candidate. I believe that there are sufficient arguments to call into question the objectivity of that process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u20	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement. Mr De Vriendt, I have already said that I do not think it is right that people keep saying, over and over and over again, about the work of those who, in their own conscience and ability, try to draw up and guide the best possible dossiers, that it is a rush. We have a Strategic Vision. You keep asking what's going on with the rollout of that Strategic Vision. I just want to ask who's here against drones? Because then it's over with the discussion about whether or not to replace the F-16s. If we are told today that we should not have drones, then tomorrow one should not say that the F-16s should not be replaced because one will do it with drones. It's either one or the other. You must at last be consistent. Having said that, I take note of the fact that Green and Ecolo come here to say that Israel is "more European" than the United States, and that they are keen to cooperate with it in the field of intelligence gathering in the world. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u21	Madam President, I shall allow my colleague Jacques Chabot to speak on the issue of drones. Minister, it is because we want Defence to be able to carry out its missions for the benefit of the citizens that we ask for the truth to come to light and for the light to be shed on a number of issues. We don't sue you for intent. Only I have the impression that, in a crisis that continues to end, it is only on condition that the facts are examined in the serenity that the Defence will be able to carry out its missions in complete tranquillity. On the other hand, the current exchange shows that there is still a lack of understanding of the different modalities – not to say "procedures" – which explain whether one chooses one partner or one market procedure. That is why I repeat the request for a debate, already expressed yesterday by several colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u22	But we already have this debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u23	Minister, I have no problem with that. I'm just trying to restore some serenity. I readily admit that this is not the best thing I do; I know my qualities and my faults. Still, I'm not going to sue you for intent. I sincerely hope that all the light will be brought to light. Last week, you partially contributed to it. Of course, I do not pretend to share your analysis on all the points or that any doubt is lifted, but you have done this exercise. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I can only regret once again that we have not gone any faster. I do not understand what we have to gain from maintaining some kind of doubt. If there's nothing to hide, you don't have to be afraid of. Therefore, the various documents in the file must be examined. In this case, as in the case of the F-16s and others, I ask myself questions, which may not be justified, but which seem to me to deserve answers, less for me than for our fellow citizens, who still have to question themselves strongly as a result of our discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u24	Minister, during the meeting of the Military Procurement Committee – in which I participated – several legitimate substantive questions were raised, which were recalled today by the other speakers. I am thinking of the possible use of drones as intelligence or tactical tools, of the possibility of their being armed, as well as of other questions in terms of international law and ethics or at the budgetary level. It was then decided to initiate the procedure by vote. For my part, I voted against. The meeting was held in camera. You answered me that day – I believe you a priori: "Everything is fair, but don't pay attention to everything the press says". However, I must note today that there are still areas of shadow because of the information recently published in the press, but also because of the Prime Minister's reply no later than yesterday. He told us that the government had not made any decisions, as it had found that the file was not mature. I obviously wish the same thing as my colleague so that we can debate it with a view to regaining some serenity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, before we go any further, I would like to ask you to speak as succinctly as possible. We have invited guests who have been waiting here for an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u26	Madam President, I will try to answer your question. Minister, allow me to express some reservations as to why we are sitting here together this morning. There have been doubts over the past week, for the sake of clarity by you, about what these drones would do and what was precisely the point of not taking the other providers into account. I come back to a question from colleagues from previous meetings. They have called for more prior consideration of the strategic point of view: what exactly do we need and what tasks do we want to carry out? Mr De Vriendt made all the distinctions. It was announced that we will use the drones for reconnaissance and gathering information. However, when the procedure is under way, it can be seen that there is a different course of action and that drones are actually being proposed that are heavier. This could have been avoided if the previous debate had been more thorough and if more information had been given before it was discussed in committee behind closed doors. As far as this strategic debate is concerned, you have just said that we need to ask ourselves which partners we want to organise surveillance with over Europe. That's part of a certain trade-off. I take it for granted. That is a consideration, but it has to be made for the sake of clarity. Why is that so important? A lot of questions are being asked, by the citizens, by us, by everyone, about what our resources are being spent on. It's a good thing all citizens know that. It must not be about the technical aspects or military interests, but it must be discussed effectively behind closed doors. However, the overall strategic consideration should be made more thorough in advance. That must be done here at the public committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u27	Madam Chair, this exchange shows that meetings of the Military Procurement Committee could now – except when documents classified under the 1998 Act are reviewed – be held in public. Mr Minister, I did not attend the entire committee meeting that day. However, I attended at the beginning, but my collaborator – who is sitting on my left – stayed well throughout the meeting. The reason why I was unable to stay is very simple: the debate on home visits took place at the same time in the Committee on the Interior. No matter what, if we had attended this meeting publicly, the press behind us could have obtained all the information immediately. In addition, you would not have been subjected to this spilling of information into the media. On the bottom, let's start with the armability of the drone. You textually stated that this device would be armed, with a new government decision. However, you did not answer my question, which was as follows: will the armability of the drone involve a new opinion from the Military Procurement Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u28	Mr. Hellings, it depends...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u29	What's the price?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u30	I'll put it in Dutch. It depends on the level of the number of bombs. In that case, if we take a government decision, that order will also allow us to build up the armed capacity, to practice and so on. I therefore think that we will pass that threshold very quickly, because it is not that high. The threshold for the Military Purchases Commission is not so high, speaking of military products.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u31	Mr Minister, can you then commit yourself, and engage Defence through you, that, if the threshold is not exceeded, the armability of the drone would still pass before the Military Purchases Commission, so that things will proceed as transparently as possible? This is an achievement of the meeting. I come to the utility of drones. You said that the purchase of these few drones took place in anticipation of a European programme in which Belgium will participate, and that these drones would probably be armed, in any case Europeans. No one is questioning the fact that Defence has drones capable of helping our soldiers on the ground, that is, reconnaissance drones. She's always had it in the last few years. Ecolo-Groen does not object to the Defence re-establishing effective reconnaissance drones. They can be useful in many areas of action, to help our military. They can also be useful in helping civilians in natural disasters, here or elsewhere in Europe. We are therefore vitating this debate; we are not opposed to the idea of reconnaissance drones. The debate focuses on potentially armed drones. The question is logical. Indeed, you said that we could potentially equip ourselves, by 2025, with European drones, possibly armable. Therefore, we can simply buy today non-armable reconnaissance drones. It is the political question that arises. We are not opposed to the idea of having reconnaissance drones, but we do not necessarily agree with the idea of taking the most expensive, the most heavy, the most American and the most armable. That is the question of opportunity. I heard your answer on the Link-16 communication system. I have just inquired; this is the common NATO system. We will have to be very careful because a new communication protocol, the MADL, is used by the F-35. I will ask further questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u32	All three systems can be equipped with Link-16. For one of them, the one I'm proposing, it's already planned. For others, we don't know the price, and we don't have any experience. I repeat that the three systems can be equipped, but further adjustments are needed for both Israelis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u33	Minister, that's why we need real competition. This implies that a number of suppliers can be placed around the table and that the latter can come with their proposals, including the additional cost of providing one or the other non-American competitor with the Link-16 system. I understand that the Link-16 system is the principle used by all NATO partners to communicate on a battlefield or on a field of testing, but the point is that we can compare offers. This is the very principle of public procurement. To say that, because the Greens are asking for the public transparency that we have achieved here in a market, and because we are asking for a real competition to make a choice, it would make us promoters of the Israeli system, I think it is a particularly unfortunate shortcut. We do not push for the purchase of any drone in particular. We are pushing for the purchase of a drone according to objective criteria that meet the needs of our military to meet the needs that the government and Parliament, through them, have set out in the strategic vision. That's all we want! We don't want a drone in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u34	First of all, I will explain why I was not present at the Committee on Military Procurement: I am not allowed to do so! In the light of your answers and the various elements available, I have the impression that there is what I will call not an evil axis but a NATO axis, American military-industrial complex, some officers of the Belgian army and the N-VA. This axis has made a global choice, a package in which there is the F-35 that you had chosen from the start, even if you have always claimed the opposite, and American drones that can use the same weapons as American planes. On the retention of information by the army, you deny and make a general answer. However, specific facts and accusations have been relayed by the press. You're not responding to anything on the factual level. On the price, there is a pretty brilliant demonstration that the chosen device costs more than twice the others. However, you say that this cannot be said and that it is necessary to wait for an offer to really judge the price. But when we get the offer, we won't be able to make a comparison, since there will be only one offer. He won't be able to be compared to the others. About the contacts with the builders, you're telling us that it's normal to have one. Yeah, it's usually normal. Again, a general answer. Usually, it's normal. But we must see how this is done, where, when, with whom, what is the object of contact? That is why I asked you for a list of the contacts that have been made with regard to the drone file. I hope that you have heard the appeal and that you will respond favourably. In any case, I will introduce a written question if it is not. Madam President, I conclude. I think there is a problem of opacity and conflict of interest in this case, as in the case of the replacement of the F-16s. We know that your party, Minister, is a conflict of interest specialist. We remember Mr Jambon presiding over the Diamond Club here in Parliament. The Speaker of the Chamber told RTBF: "I am for conflicts of interest." I think with the F-16 and drone files, we can say that the N-VA already has its Agusta case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u35	Madam President, Minister, when I hear you, I think that one of the really important problems on this issue is that we have finally stifled the crucial, fundamental discussion. I don't know if you wanted it, personally, or some at the Defence level. Should we equip ourselves with attack drones? That's what the discussion is about. I'm going to expand. From the start, it was made up of surveillance drones. This has been stated in the strategic vision and in the military programming law. You called him back, by the way. You said, "We're responding to a request from NATO for boaters." For facilitators, for strategic gaps. You recalled textually: "For reconnaissance drones", which corresponded to NATO's request. Actually, we bought attack drones. You tell us that there are two or three missing elements. Today, you repeat this to us. I continue to read, hear and have information that it is little, that there is nothing missing for them to be drones of attack. As a result, we buy very expensive American equipment. You're also telling me it's not a Reaper. Yes, it's the Reaper family. I have in front of me the builder's note, which says textually that the name has been changed, but that it is exactly the same material, improved, more effective, stronger and more capable on the military level and in terms of the attack. So it's an improved Reaper. It's like you're telling me that the new F-16s that come out of the production lines are not the old F-16s. It's the same family, except they're even more effective. It's exactly the same family. There's no doubt about that. Let's not play with words. Let's not play with words! It is the same type of machine, even more efficient and capable of multi-purpose. His name has been changed because it gives too much the impression that he can only do the attack, while he can do the multipurpose. It's exactly the same type of gear. As a result, I feel like I was a little, not instrumentalized or manipulated, but at least I didn't have all the information on this file. Still today, I don't know why we're buying attack drones. You are telling me that we are buying reconnaissance drones to meet NATO's strategic need. But that is not what we are buying, Minister! This debate is always stifled. You have not answered the main question as to why Belgium is de facto developing attack drones. Worse still, you say that to be able to use them as attack drones, it will be enough for a government decision. Again, a fundamental debate is being held at Parliament level. I therefore ask you – I also turn to the President – that, when we have this debate on adapting our strategic vision and on the realities for which we are buying certain types of weapons, you come here to justify precisely why we are buying these devices. That seems essential to me. This is a fundamental step in the way we see Defence, the army, and our role on the battlefields. At the same time, I am told in the Defence that there is a risk of buying equipment that will never be used as an attack drone. We're going to buy very expensive equipment, but given our military history and habits, it's very likely that we'll never use it. It worries me to buy such expensive equipment without parliamentary debate, without conviction, without any justification at the strategic and political level and without responding to a NATO demand. In addition, you remind us today that these drones will be delivered in 2023 but that, by 2029, European drones will be available. It is therefore a question of covering a six-year gap. That's what you reminded us today. It was on your slide.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u36	Mr Dallemagne, I want to clarify that. In our level of ambition, we expect six systems in 2030: two off-the-shelf systems, four European systems. We will need both types of system to achieve the established level of ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u37	For my part, I read "2029". Now you're telling me this is 2030. In any case, you confirm to me that European drones will be available. A fundamental question then arises. I wonder why, between 2023 and 2029 – in other words, six years of Gap – you have to buy equipment at a high price, which apparently only Americans can deliver and which is not justified strategically, either in your note or in a NATO programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic857x.u38	Mr Bogaert, it has been agreed that only questions submitted should be answered.
