ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u1	Good afternoon, fellow Members. The second panel, the Material Management team, is complete. I welcome you very much and I am glad that you are here on a voluntary basis. May I ask you to introduce yourself briefly? What exactly do you do within Material Management? Anyone who wishes to do so can first give a brief explanation. Then I'll open a round of questions. Those who do not wish to explain can simply wait for the round of questions to begin. Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, may I begin with you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u2	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, I am Lieutenant-Colonel Rudi Decrop. I am currently in the Defence Strategy Department and I am responsible for bilateral international relations within the framework of Belgian defence policy. At the time of the facts – I guess that's what's interesting – I was the head of the Combat Aircraft sub-section within DG MR (Material Resources) and I carried out the studies as part of the F-16 fleet monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u3	Thank you. If you wish, you can provide further explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u4	I will explain and reframe the context in which the studies discussed today were presented by Lockheed – and what we did with these studies – and in which context they were exported by myself to my hierarchy. I'll explain my background first. I have 24 years of career, mainly in the F-16 world, in the operational part, or the Air Force part, with 8 years in operational unit, twice in operational missions. I also spent a great deal of my time managing the F-16 and material fatigue within DG MR – 4 years in the "fatigue materials" study centre in Defence and "crack research", 3 years as the F-16 "structures" material manager, 3 years as the "F-16" liaison officer in the United States and 2 years, from 2015 to 2017, as the head of the sub-section "combat aircraft" within DG MR. The documents we are interested in today began arriving in May 2016 following a follow-up conference on the structure of the F-16 that takes place annually with Lockheed but also with all the other countries that have the F-16. In May 2016, three Belgian Defence representatives attended the meeting and came back with the results of the Lockheed study. There are a lot of studies that are discussed at these meetings – it lasts a week – but there is a study that was of particular interest to us: a study that announced good news, that is, our F-16 aircraft, at the structural level, the bodywork for some, were in good condition. They were not only in good condition, but since the flight profiles we had flown with in recent years were less demanding than the flight profile with which the F-16 had been "designated" at the start, this allowed us to fly an average of 1,500 additional hours with our current fleet, without modification. This is confirmed by reliable Lockheed official documents based on analysis conducted by the firm on our aircraft for about 30 years. Roadmap F-16 documents are regularly published for Belgium. The last date of 2017 and contains about 50 pages providing all the explanations and references of the 95 studies on which the summary given to us in May is based. All of this confirmed that our planes were flying less hard than expected. In May 2016, I share with my hierarchy these good results and the potential interest in exploiting them as part of a F-16 replacement file. Then, Lockheed's first analysis, presented at the May 2016 conference, was confirmed by another study on the Force Management of our fleet, commissioned in December 2016 and transmitted in April 2017. These results are also based on data which are obviously not included in the five pages of the summary, but which are referenced in the file. I would like to share this again with my hierarchy by explaining how this could have an impact on the F-16 replacement file. At our level, it is not a matter of deciding what to do, but of communicating the data to the Chief of Defence and the Minister of Defence, who, at their level, can inform the political world of the remarkable life-span results of our F-16s. After April 2017, I was transferred to another position. I therefore felt it appropriate, before changing my position, to alert my hierarchy as well as the people involved in the F-16 replacement file and in the follow-up of the F-16 fleet, to the highest level: the steering committee F-16. Why did it seem important to me at the time to share this news? For economic reasons, first of all. As a staff officer, material manager in DG MR, where corporate culture is efficiency, economy of resources and the release of budgets for other large projects, it seemed important to me to announce, after making basic calculations, that we could save more or less 900 million euros in six years. Here we are talking about the difference between the operation of the F-16 which costs us about 80 million euros per year for 11,000 flying hours and 54 aircraft and the cost of an aircraft replacing the F-16 which was estimated, by the ACCaP office, at about 250 million euros per year, which represents a difference of 150 million per year to be multiplied by six. It therefore seemed important to me to communicate information at the highest level of Defence that could have an impact not only on the F-16 replacement project, which may have been delayed, but also on the Defence budget. Indeed, the strategic plan is of great importance in many areas, including recruitment of staff and infrastructure. I am thinking, among other things, of flying units and the engagement of additional troops in certain units. All these elements seemed to me to have to be communicated at the highest level of Defence, since it is not at my level that such a decision must be made. The second aspect relates to the question of why not somewhat postulate the replacement of the F-16 in order to gain air capacity. We currently have 54 aircraft. If we reduce our fleet to 34 aircraft, it will have a very significant impact on the number of pilots, technicians, support troops in the units. Having personally participated in operations abroad for two years as a sub-section head of DG MR, I know that it is very important to have a sufficient number of aircraft, pilots and technicians in order to be able to operate. We have been engaged with the F-16s for more than ten years. And it is thanks to the sufficient number of personnel that we have been able to guarantee operations during this period. At my level, it's not up to me again to make the decision if we have to keep 40% more aircraft for a while. I also transmit the information in this context. The third motivation, which seemed obvious to me, was the lack of clarity in some of the current aircraft replacement programmes. I think everyone can read almost daily, weekly, what is happening in other fighter aircraft replacement programs today. It might be interesting to delay the purchase of the new aircraft by a few years in order to be sure when signing the contract that will hire Belgium for 40 years with a budget of 250 million euros per year. Here is a summary of the elements I had at the time, from 2016 to 2017, why I shared these elements with my hierarchy and also with the people involved in the F-16 program and in the F-16 replacement program. I am prepared to answer your questions after my colleagues have spoken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u5	Madam Chair, members of the Commission, I have been Colonel Givron, the Chief of Staff of the Air Component since January 2017. Therefore, I am not part of the Materiel Resources Branch (RMB). I don't have a statement to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u6	My name is Colonel Peter Letten and I have been employed since January 2015 within the Directorate-General Material Resources, responsible for Aeronautical Systems, or flying equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u7	I'm Lieutenant General Rudy Debaene, Director General Material Resources. It's been the third or fourth time I've been here, so I guess I shouldn't imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u8	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, I am Major Admiral Yves Dupont. Since the end of March 2017, I have been the Head of the Systems Division in the Physical Resources Branch. The Systems division includes both support units such as Rocourt, spare parts distribution centres, or Ypres, but also four staff sections that are responsible for materiel management. One is in charge of naval equipment, another is in charge of rolling stock, one is in charge of supporting equipment and the last is in charge of aeronautical equipment, of which Colonel Letten is in charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u9	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am Major Philippe Van den Put. From summer 2014 until summer 2017, I was the contact person within the Belgian Defense Department for the F-16 MNFP program of the United States. In this capacity, I provided communications with the equipment manager, both in Belgium and in the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my name is Captain Antoon Boeykens. I have been responsible for the NH90 helicopters since July 2017. Between the end of May 2016 and the end of June 2017, I was a material manager of the structure of the F-16. In that capacity, my name has also been put on Lockheed Martin's conscious memo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u11	Thank you. Colleagues, I will open a first round of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u12	Gentlemen, we apologize for the delay in the meeting this morning. I will confine myself to a number of specific questions to some of the people who are here this afternoon. I'll start with Colonel Rudi Decrop. May I speak in Dutch? [[Assent]] Mr Decrop, I was not paying attention when you presented yourself with regard to your seniority. Can you tell us how many years you have specialized in the F-16s, such as material manager? Some people were wondering, for example in the media, why you did not go directly to the minister with information that is already known in the meantime. Can you explain this? Minister Vandeput and General Debaene stated here in committee last week that a technical life span of our F-16s cannot be achieved. Nor can a decision be taken on this because I quote: 'first, 90% of the lifetime of our devices must be monitored and, second, all of our F-16 dynamometers must be equipped with sensors, whereas this is only the case with 16 of our 54 F-16 dynamometers and only 27 devices have provisions for such sensors. Is it necessary effectively to monitor 90% of the total lifetime? Is it also necessary for all our F-16 dynamometers to be equipped with sensors or are there other methods, systems or recorders to measure the aircraft load and the data needed to measure the lifespan? Minister Vandeput and Lieutenant General Debaene have stated here that the necessary technical and operational modernisations for a lifespan extension would cost more than EUR 2 billion, i.e. a soft SLEP, i.e. six to seven years. Is that even true? What would you say would be the cost of a technical lifetime extension of six to seven years? Could you possibly prove the cost with official documents, as I suppose? In addition, what modernisations should be carried out for our F-16 debt holders to keep them operational and relevant even longer than the planned period of time, which is six to seven years extra? What would that cost? Minister Vandeput has already stated on several occasions, both at last week's meeting and in the IKW note of 9 November 2015, which was distributed in committee last month, that the lifetime of our F-16 debt holders can be extended by up to 2 000 hours. How many hours can the lifespan of our F-16s/Block-15 be extended on average, on the basis of all existing official studies, analyses and tests carried out and on the basis of the ongoing or already carried out lifetime extension programmes of other countries? How many more years does that correspond to the average flight profile we know today for our fleet? Colonel Givron, I have two specific questions for you. Were you present at the F-16 Steering Committee of June 2017? Was the possibility of extending the life of the F-16 aircraft for the Belgian Air Force or for other air forces discussed at that meeting? Captain Boeykens, you were the applicant for the study at Lockheed Martin in April 2017. Were you also the applicant for the study from early 2018? For what reason was the last study specifically requested? Major Van den Put, my question to you concerns a specific e-mail, sent by you on 7 July 2016. You reply to Kevin Rose, an employee of Lockheed Martin, that you did not get the impression that Lockheed is pushing Martin Belgium towards a lifetime extension. Later, you asked why the Belgian Air Chief Lockheed Martin made an angry phone call. What was the reason for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u13	Madam President, I think that Colonel Decrop's introductory statement has been useful and important because it adds new elements to the story that we have heard so far. Colonel Decrop, it is good that you have introduced yourself to the committee and made your role very clear. You were the material manager of the F-16 fleet, you were the specialist in our Air Force, within Defense regarding the F-16s. As a specialist, you have said a number of important things here. What you have said sheds a different light on the story. You say that Lockheed Martin's studies were indeed relevant, that a lifetime extension of our F-16s is possible, that a lifetime extension of six years does not cost EUR 2.2 billion, as claimed by General Debaene and Minister Vandeput, among others. You're even moving on. In your calculation, you say that this could save the taxpayer EUR 900 million. There are others within the Defense Department who have wanted to conceal this uncomfortable truth, which you have correctly expressed here, and who have wanted to withhold the information you have provided here. It's what you put on the table. You rang the alarm, and I would like to congratulate you on that. We need people like you. If others within the Defense Department say that because the political decision has already been taken, they will not look at these interesting studies of Lockheed Martin and will not allow them to see any further, it is thanks to people like you that this is happening and that we are sitting here together today, colleagues. This is a new element. It's important and it's a lot of taxpayers' money, so this is definitely changing things. I would like to ask you a few questions because some of your colleagues' arguments are as follows. Some of your colleagues say that we cannot really see the intensity of the use of our F-16 fleet because they are not equipped with sensors, yet not all of them, and certainly not going back in time until before 2005-2006. In your opinion, are there any other methods that could give us an idea of the extent to which a lifetime extension, for example by six years, could be perfectly possible for our F-16 fleet? How do you respond to the argument that we have been hearing here for a while, even last week, that because we do not have these sensors, we cannot decide whether we can keep the F-16s in the air for more than 8 000 hours? If we keep our aircraft longer in the air and extend their lifespan by 1 500, 2 000 or even 4 000 hours of flight time, to what extent do you consider safety to be at risk? To what extent is a new certification of the airworthiness of our aircraft required if, as indicated in the Lockheed Martin study, we would fly to, for example, 9 500 equivalent flying hours with our F-16s? Should there be a new certification of airworthiness? The government defends itself by referring to an IKW note dated 9 November 2015, in which the government mentions the decision not to extend the lifetime of the F-16s. Technical arguments are put forward to support why the lifetime extension would not be possible. Do you agree with the contents of that note? How do you react to that note as a whole? Have you ever had the feeling that active attempts were made not to transfer Lockheed Martin's information to the higher echelons? In what way and by whom? Could you explain that more? You are directly involved and it is important for Parliament to know very clearly what has gone wrong and who is responsible for it. Colonel Letten, I have the following questions for you. Is there another recorder on our F-16s, other than the sensors we've been talking about? If so, which one? What's the point of that? I would also like you to give me an overview of the latest modernisations that have been carried out on our F-16 fleet, whether or not implemented or already decided and clearly planned. I ask this question because it is sometimes claimed that our F-16s are really approaching the end of their life, where 2023 is the first year in which the first F-16s have to be taken out of the air. Apart from the fact that, to put it this way, the body may be able to carry on with it, the argument is that there are a lot of operational problems, such as radar and software. I would like to know whether there has been a recent decision on modernisation and whether it is already being implemented. I would like to have a very clear overview of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u14	Madam President, thank you and you, gentlemen, for responding to our questions. I congratulate Colonel Decrop for his courage. I imagine that the exercise of coming to Parliament should not be easy for you; you wanted to inform him and therefore inform the Belgian people of your questions. It seems to me that you have shed some light on a series of elements that have not yet been involved in our discussions and which are extremely interesting. Beyond the fact that you felt that these studies were serious and we will come back to them, you have made three very important points. The first element is the fact that we can release EUR 150 million a year, which is not nothing. Knowing that in terms of investment, the defence budget for 2018 is 70 million, 150 million are not nothing! The second element is that we can keep our level of ambition and this news is extremely important because, through the purchase of 34 aircraft, we are lowering our level of ambition. Let me remind you that we are moving from ten planes that can be sent for operations to six and four QRAs to two. Through additional spending, we are reducing our level of ambition and our ability to be effective partners in our alliances. The third element is that we do not have clarity on the F-35. That's the least we can say. Everyone knows today! What's this plane? What is this fantasy? This raises some important questions. You tell us that we can save while keeping our ambition and clarity. These extremely important elements, no one had exposed them to us before you, and I thank you once again for doing so. I ask you all, of course Colonel Decrop, but also Colonel Letten and others, if any. We were rebuked with the impression that these studies are not serious enough. I hear today that they are valid. Therefore, I would like to have a discussion on this because it remains an open question, in my opinion. There is no reason not to consider them seriously and I would like you to explain to us the reasons, Colonel Decrop, and Colonel Letten can react to that. Then we are told that aircraft safety would be compromised. I would like clarity on this point. When we read of the Lockheed Martin study that was given to us at the beginning of the week, we would have done only flights in a situation of peace, missions like those we do in the Baltic countries. According to this study, our planes must stay on the ground right now. Can you tell us if, compared to other F-16s, our planes are in combat capability? Are our pilots in danger or safe? I cannot believe that with Colonel Decrop's experience – 24 years of F-16, two missions – he wants to endanger our pilots. I find this difficult to predict. What is the maintenance status of our F-16s? I have always been told that they receive the equipment that allows them to carry out their mission properly and that we do not have to blush, on the contrary, that we have the best F-16 in the world in the ability to fly compared to the fleet we have. We have always been very proud of the technical capabilities of our F-16s. Suddenly, a study says they should all be left on the ground. I think we're being thought of as people who don't know and who don't follow the history of the files. I would like you to clarify this point. Colonel Decrop, can you tell me if having given this information has ever had an impact on your career? Have you been punished, in any way, for giving this information? Colonel Letten, I do not understand what prevented you from informing the minister and the CHOD, once you had this information, even if you consider that this information is not likely to change things. I don't understand why you don't shed light on these new pieces of information with burdened and unloaded arguments. We cannot say that there is nothing new, that it is worthless, that it does not change anything. This is a new technique, which has recently been developed, which is proposed by Lockheed Martin himself and finally seems to allow us to study the state of degradation and old age of the carriage of these aircraft. I don't understand what's stopping you from doing it. Another thing, I don't understand why you didn't inform your direct leader, Colonel Yves Dupont. You met with other officials, but did not alert Colonel Dupont. In any case, this does not appear in the e-mails. I would also like to hear Colonel Dupont's reaction to that. Why does he consider that he should not be involved while others are involved, such as General Roelants and Colonel Van Pee? Do you not find yourself curious to be put on the sidelines of a discussion that is taking place in your division? I come to Captain Boeykens; I begin by thanking him, for it was a little bit because of him that all this happened. It was he who came back from this international meeting, enthusiastic, if I understood correctly, saying that we had at last an instrument allowing us to study the aging state of our planes. Captain Boeykens, what caused this interest? Have other countries done the same? Do you think all this is serious or, on the contrary, should we never have opened this discussion? Did you err in a discussion that did not have to be because, from the start, we knew that we did not have this IAT? We know that we do not have all the chronology of service provided by these aircraft, etc. I do not understand why these studies would have been interesting even though today we are told that it is useless to carry them out because we did not have the IAT on all our planes from the start.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u15	I have a question for Colonel Decrop and Colonel Letten. My first question to Colonel Decrop is whether, on the basis of official data, based on strong documents, you can give the real time window in which we need to replace our F-16s, if we do not make any additional upgrade or adjustment? I ask you this question because I have heard the Secretary of Defense here say for three years that our F-16s must be replaced within the 2023-2029 time window. Is this the correct time window or can you specify a different time window based on recent information? My colleague asked me about the cost of the short life extension, the soft SLEP. I would like to ask a number of questions about the long life extension. Firstly, if we went to a hard SLEP, a lifetime extension of twenty years, how much would that cost us? Secondly, what modernisations should be made if necessary to keep our F-16s operational? Thirdly, last week General Debaene listed here a long list of adjustments and upgrades to our aircraft. I assume you've been following this. Do you think this list is correct? I had a question that was fortunately asked by Mr De Vriendt, namely whether there is a need for a new certification in the event of a lifetime extension between 2000 and 4000 hours? If so, what is the cost? I have two more questions for Colonel Letten. We learned from the DOD's internal investigation that, after Lieutenant Colonel Decrop had sent his e-mail on 10 May, there was quite a stir because several meetings took place between 16 and 18 May. We asked the auditors, and they said they didn't see any reports. Are there any reports of that meeting? If so, can we look at it? Then my final question to you: did you help General Debaene prepare his exhibition last Friday, 13 April?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u16	Madam President, thank you for being here. Especially thanks to Colonel Decrop for having already answered my first question, namely why you wanted to move that information to a higher level. In an e-mail dated 10 May 2017, you made the recommendation to do so. That didn't happen. That was stopped. In fact, Major Van den Put had already had that same reflex on December 1, 2016. I will come back to that later. I have a specific question for you. You started with that May 2016 conference. That was a conference where Lockheed Martin for the first time stated that this extension could be possible. Did they also say at that conference that 90% of our aircraft had to be equipped with these sensors? Was that information they gave you back then? Or is that information that came later to DG MR? This is crucial, isn't it? One of the results of the audit that the Minister had carried out and the results of which we have been able to see is the crucial information that 90% of our aircraft must have these sensors at their disposal. Did you get that information there? Did Lockheed Martin also discuss other parameters at that conference that could have an impact on the extension of our F-16s? This is just about the structure of the plane. I'm an engineer myself. I know that an airplane consists of a lot more than the structure. We can read that questions can also be asked about the radar on our aircraft. If we want to extend it, it will also have to be upgraded. Other systems will probably also need to be upgraded. I'm just thinking about the hydraulics, landing gear and so on. Did they talk about this at that conference? Or was it just about the structure? When we talk about an extension, ladies and gentlemen, we have to look at the whole picture and not just one of the 20 or 25 parameters, one of which is the structure. I come to a second question, which is addressed to Major Van den Put. In early December 2016, you sent an e-mail in which you write about the political sensitivity of a possible lifetime extension. What are the arguments for you to use the term "Police Sensitivity"? I conclude from that statement that you also felt it necessary to bring that information to a higher level, at a political level. Mr. Dupont, were you aware of Colonel Decrop's information? Were you also aware that he wanted to raise that information to a higher level? Colonel Letten, this afternoon I asked General Robberecht if there was any kind of disagreement between yourself and Colonel Decrop, a difference in vision and the like. The General has confirmed that. From the documents I have at my disposal, it also seems that you are the person who has decided not to bring that information to a higher level, i.e. not to bring the information that Colonel Decrop had at the level of the CHOD and the MOD. What did you base yourself on? What are your technical and other considerations not to pass that information on? Colonel Decrop, I've saved my last question for you. This question is about documents that Mr Van der Maelen has been using in our committee for three weeks and with which he has actually called the bell in committee. Mr van der Maelen, the origin of these documents has always fascinated me; I have already asked you to do so. Mr Decrop, in my opinion you have had a good reflex in bringing that information up. Did you share that information with members of a union? Were you aware that this information could be leaked to a political party? Was it also intended to cause such a leak, or was it not intended to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u17	Madam President, I apologise to the military present that we are systematically debarking their ranks. That's unpleasant. First, a question to Mr. Decrop. As Mr. From Vriendt, you bring two important new information. I learn, for example, that you have done an interesting calculation, comparing the cost of maintaining the current F-16, to 80 million euros per year – stop me if I am wrong – compared to 34 new fighter-bombers, in the long term 250 million euros per year. This is surprising because two years ago, when Colonel Van Pee presented us with the future market for the 34 fighter-bombers, he presented us with a budget of 15 billion over 40 years. On the basis of your figure of 250 million euros over 40 years, I reach 10 billion. I wish I knew where the difference came from. That would therefore mean that we would arrive at a figure other than EUR 250 million. It's just for the information. Lieutenant-Colonel Decrop, you're a whistleblower and you pay the price. We must also congratulate you, in our capacity as democratic representatives in this institution. You are also unquestionably the specialist. You have surrendered, and this is a question I would like to ask you, at this meeting in May 2016, where appears for the first time... Is it not May 2016? Finally, in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u18	I wasn't there!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u19	Okay! Ah, but your colleagues! That is a good question I can ask you. But in any case, members of the Defence regularly participate in these annual meetings, which you mentioned, where the F-16 fleets currently flying around the world are compared. That's what I understood. This follow-up is done at international level, not by a pacifist or ecological body, but by the company that manufactures these aircraft itself: Lockheed-Martin. It's very important. The crucial information appears in spring 2016: F-16 fleets flying around the world, including in Belgium, could be extended more than usual. You used the word "our F-16s stole less hard." Where does this question come from? I heard a number of your superiors explain... Friday, I wasn't there, but I followed the debates remotely. But even earlier, we were told that our fleet of 54 F-16 did not have the technical tool to measure precisely how they had resisted the various missions they had been confronted with. It would therefore be a fatal blow to our pilots to take the risk of prolonging an aircraft, whose difficulties he has endured throughout his life cannot be measured. I come back to this fundamental question. Our F-16s are closely followed and specifically by the Belgian team, which is itself part of a global programme, which is the subject of an annual meeting. Hence the question. When our F-16s fly to Iraq, Syria, Libya, Afghanistan or to protect the Baltic countries (to name only the last missions), other F-16s around the world also carry out missions in parallel with our F-16s. It is likely that some F-16s of our allies are equipped with measuring devices. Depending on the flight hours observed, we could collate over time and compare the structure of our aircraft that flew on the same missions in the same way as our allies' aircraft. Is it possible to conduct this investigation, but even if I did not read the Lockheed Martin study, is it possible to obtain, by comparison, a general idea of the structure of our F-16s? You also said, Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, that one could imagine an extension of 1,600 hours of flight, without any substantial change. This is crucial, since the issue is the replacement of these aircraft, because having them fly longer is too important an investment than justifying it for old aircraft. What I understood, and I am quite prepared to hear the opposite, is that the life of these F-16s could be extended by 1,600 hours without any substantial change in avionics, radar, structure etc. This is important, because if we have to invest billions to fly 1,500 more hours, it's not the same as investing a few more million to replace another aircraft. I now have questions for Colonel Letten. The documents produced from last Monday tell us that the crucial moment, when there was an exchange of arguments within DG MR, is between 16 and 18 May 2017. A first meeting was held on the 16th, but in the absence of Lieutenant-Colonel Decrop; the second, on May 18, was held in your presence, Colonel Letten, and in the presence of colleagues and other members of your leadership. Is it at that time that the exchange of technical arguments has taken place to justify that you have taken on your authority – which is validated by the two audits we have learned – based on your experience, your reading of the file and the various elements exchanged, the decision not to raise the information beyond the Air component of Defence? What is the reason why you make this decision? I fully understand that, in the military hierarchy, you have the power to decide by virtue of your authority over your department. But from a political point of view, it's a little more delicate. It is a large market of 15 billion over 40 years. It's not an annoyance. Therefore, beyond the technical dimension, the political dimension also needed to be assessed. Indeed, the two audits did agree with the existence of a military hierarchy. A colonel has authority over a lieutenant-colonel. No doubt about it! No one is questioning this fact! But how could you, you, appreciate this political dimension, knowing, for example, that the simple closure of a barracks, a highly political issue, goes immediately to the cabinet? You know that any mention of the closure of a barracks – I will not mention a name, otherwise my colleagues will jump to the ceiling – is a very sensitive subject. I do not understand why, when it comes to closing a barracks, we immediately inform the minister who "puts the lid" on the decision to prevent all the Members of the constituency concerned from unleashing themselves in the plenary of the House, and that this is not the case for a market of 15 billion euros, which, according to the information you have given us and which, today, Lieutenant-Colonel Decrop, reminded us, could have had a huge political impact, which explains, moreover, your presence among us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u20	Madam President, gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for your presence. Having said that, I would like to make it clear that I was unable to participate in the work of the committee that met last Friday, because I was in Asia. In so doing, if I mention a subject that was already dealt with last week, I would like to ask you to excuse me. First of all, I would like to ask a question to Lieutenant-General Debaene, who has already mentioned in committee, as he pointed out earlier, the replacement of equipment. The issue of aging and the management of the stock of equipment, of course, concerns the three components of our military force. Could you tell me whether the procedure for the acquisition of new equipment is the same for all three components? If this is not the case, I suppose it must be linked to the specificity of the equipment. I would like you to give me a few words on this subject in order to understand the particularities of the procedure put in place in the present case. As has been said on many occasions, Lockheed's notes refer to the language, to speak quickly. There is no line on the other components of the aircraft. So, as far as armaments are concerned, is the evolution of aircraft capabilities, including the development of opposing air defences, which must also be taken into account, analysed? Has there been – and I am speaking to Lieutenant-Colonel Decrop – in the reflection that has been his and that we can understand in several respects, an assessment of the risk in the event of exceeding 8,000 hours? I assume that the financial aspect is not the only one to be taken into account. There is also an assessment of the risk of exceeding 8,000 hours. This is important for the safety of pilots, you have alluded to it, but also for the effectiveness of the missions that need to be completed. What is the risk if you decide to exceed 8,000 hours? Another aspect of the question also concerns me, even as part of your reflection: the overall cost of the operation. I have heard several representatives of the opposition presenting the extension as the right deal or solution, with an estimated cost, a cost representing a profit also according to your calculations. All right, but I come to what Mr Hellings has just said: we still need to know the whole of the equipment that needs to be either replaced or renovated or newly installed on all the appliances. Between a few million and a few billion, there is a margin that interests us from a budgetary point of view. All the more so since at the end of the race, and we have not yet talked about it much, we will have to buy new devices anyway. If we continue, do you, gentlemen, have an exact idea of the cost that would be involved? I would also like to hear from you about when we should be thinking that we've invested a lot in the extension of the equipment, we've been maintaining our carlings that are more than 40 years old, we've already spent so much... Now, okay, we're going to buy. I'd like to know if you have an evaluation at that time. And what would be the procedures to be implemented? That is something I would like to hear from you. Another element is replacement. If the current devices are replaced, some will remain in operation until 2029. If we add to that the six years mentioned by you, Mr. Decrop, we arrive at 2035. Can you guarantee that with your reasoning, our aircraft in 2033, 2034, 2035, will be able to continue to ensure, with the same efficiency and security for our pilots, the missions they will have to perform at that time in a world that, I deeply regret, does not seem to be very stable for the moment or for the years to come? I would like an estimate of the overall cost. I'd like to know if you have any idea when you'll still have to buy the new devices. Thirdly, in your reflection, did you think about what devices would still be in operation after 2030, how to ensure their current effectiveness? Another question. You have mentioned, and we have all paid attention to it, and I agree with you, the lack of clarity in some replacement programmes. While waiting a little, so by prolonging the life of the current devices, we could have a better certainty to buy, I quote, "the right device". What difficult replacement programs are you referring to? I think I heard, Mr. Van der Maelen, that you mentioned the F-35. I'm still interested in your answer. What, in your reflection, has led you to say to yourself "attention, the offers that are on the table seem to me insufficiently certain, it is better to wait, etc."? Again, I do not question your intellectual honesty. Not at all! I would like to hear you on this point. Seeing which contracts are under negotiation for example for the F-35 in other countries, what brings you to say "wait"? Indeed, this is all the more important, but it is another thought which may be a little more personal to me and which I will also submit to the American representatives just now, I am still surprised by Lockheed's gesture. Maybe a scalded cat fears cold water? I'm still a little surprised. As Lockheed develops this F-35 and makes every effort to convince him to buy it (we received here the delegation that came to boast the merits of the F-35, etc. I can hardly understand Lockheed's gesture of charity to all the countries they are trying to sell new devices and saying: "Don't hurry! Take your time! Let's study the file carefully! In fact, we have a study that deals with the carling of your devices. We know that your devices have stolen less or have stolen less hard than others. In this case, you can therefore expect an extension and benefit from some more time. It's a bonus for you." Maybe it's a charitable gesture. I have a bit of difficulty believing this from an aircraft manufacturer like Lockheed but anything is possible! It can also be a commercial gesture that says: "Continue working with us and buy F-35 because you see, we work seriously, we ensure that your devices are extended", etc. As I said, it is a reflection that is a little more personal to me, but if it were possible to provide some answers, I would be delighted to hear them. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that the main purpose of hearings was to hear the guests and not to speak for too long. We were caught in that trap this morning, maybe we'll run the same risk this afternoon. I have a number of specific questions, first and foremost to Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. Mr Decrop, in the morning we heard that Lockheed Martin's memo was not so much about extending the lifetime of the F-16s as about a calculation model for the metal fatigue of the F-16s. Do you agree? There has also been a lot to do this morning about the importance of the note. That was nuanced by some. In a recent e-mail in Defense to a number of people, you expressed the view that this had to be given a great deal of importance. You then nuanced that in another mail. I wonder if you could shed some light on that e-mail. Why did you nuance that? Did you apply these nuances of your own free will? Can you frame that for me? With my next question, I will perhaps repeat part of what my fellow Members have already said. You have not fully followed the integral hierarchical line. You delivered that to Colonel Letten, not to the others, Admiral Dupont and General Debaene. Why not? Why didn't you deliver it to them? I'll come to the downside of the medal. Why did you deliver it to others within the Defense Department? A question I haven't received an answer to yet. Soon you will of course be given the word "Of course" is whether you have delivered the memos and/or your mail to others outside of Defense? That's interesting to know, isn't it? Then I have an additional question for Major Van den Put. Major Van den Put, do you know if Lockheed's memos have come into the hands of people outside of Defense? The people inside the DOD who needed to know, we know. Maybe there were others who needed to know. They already said they don't know. However, there may be people or organizations outside of Defense, who also received the memos. If you know of that, I would like to know if that is the case and, if so, who or which organization has received those memos? Colonel Letten, it was already about the airworthiness after 8 000 hours of flight. I agree with a number of questions that have already been addressed to your address. I believe I can conclude that keeping the aircraft airworthy after 8 000 hours cannot be without costs. How much are we talking about? Why did you decide not to go hierarchically higher in disseminating the information received through Lieutenant Colonel Decrop? Division Admiral Dupont, among others Mr Dallemagne has already asked, but can you confirm that you did not have that information in the course of 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u22	Madam Chair, allow me to thank all the speakers for their presentations, and in particular Mr. Decrop. Firstly, Mr Decrop, I would like to pay tribute to your courage: coming here to say this is not obvious! It's not obvious to be a whistleblower. What did it cost you here in Belgium to be a whistleblower? I think we should know that as Members of Parliament, and the people should know that too. We know that in tax matters, whether it is Antoine Deltour or others, whistleblowers have experienced many problems in the area of justice. In your case, it would be in-house. But in any case, it would be good for us to know whether you have been under pressure, either upstream or downstream of these disseminations of information? Secondly, these disseminations of information are all the more important as you are telling us today - and you are an expert in this matter, it is indisputable and no one here will question this fact - that it would have been possible to achieve 900 million euros of savings and to fly our F-16s for another six years. You only transmit the information. I would like to react immediately to what Mr Miller said: "guarante, guarantee!" I assume that the first thing we cannot guarantee in terms of military equipment is all we live on the ground, but the question is whether the information has been passed on. Is information accessible to policy, to make a political decision? That is what I heard today from Mr Decrop, and it is this question that matters to us today. In any case, there is someone here who has expertise and who tells us that 900 million could have been saved, that our F-16 would have borne another six years. I think that's a very important point. Thirdly, in the first hearing, General Compernol said to us: "The information is relevant because the framework was already very clear, namely that the planes will be replaced." Colonel Letten, in the audit, it appears that you conveyed a rather different opinion, particularly in the e-mails in December 2016. I cannot quote you, but I refer to what has been said in the press and to paraphrase you: "This is not the right time." It's really not a good time. No one can really think that the F-16 can fly for more than 8 000 hours, because we are in a crucial phase. It seems to me that this is in contradiction to what General Compernol told us earlier in the first sitting, namely that it was very clear. It was niet relevant because the decision was already made. Is there a political conscience in the army? Can you confirm that there was this political consciousness, that the army considered it inappropriate to disclose this information, which would mean that there would have been a political position within the army itself? I ask you the question; free to answer it. Fourth, Mr. Decrop – or others among the speakers, including those present at international meetings – are there other examples of F-16 extensions abroad? I assume that Belgium is not the only country to be confronted with this. Since the American companies of the military-industrial complex have had a fairly strong weight in Western Europe since the Second World War, I assume that Belgium is not the only country to face this same issue. Have all these countries opted for the short-term replacement of their F-16s or have they opted for other options if they exist? Fifthly, the minister made it clear to us that, given that the measures had not been taken, the aircraft had to be replaced because we did not know. Is that true? Mr Decrop, are you in the best position to respond, but perhaps others can respond? There may be other methods. Several colleagues spoke on the subject. Is the past of mechanical resistance the only way to see the actual condition of the aircraft? Is there not more modern techniques - with X-rays - to detect the state of steel today? Should we at all costs rely on a past monitoring or is it possible - in terms of buildings, that is done - to have a current cliché allowing us to judge the real state of our planes? Sixthly, Lockheed Martin's role in the case concerns me. I'll take the question from the other angle of attack than Mr. Miller's. We depend on Lockheed Martin to know the condition of our planes and, at the same time, it is Lockheed Martin who wants to sell us his F-35! I wonder about the independence of defence choices. Would it not be more opportune to have autonomous services and technologies that would allow us to judge our equipment. We are dependent on the military-industrial complex which, given its position, can tell us what it wants. I would be interested to know where the balance is within Defence in terms of its own internal expertise and external expertise in what is being sold to us. In the evolution of the army today, has not this defence expertise been taken away from us to give it only to outside companies? This question relates to future events. I will listen to your answers with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u23	I would like to thank the panel for coming and thank Mr Decrop for his speech and above all for his courage. You are proving to us today that courage can have different faces in the Defence, and I greet him. I guess it's not without consequences in a personal capacity. With regard to the document that you became aware of following the meeting with Lockheed Martin, I would have wanted to know what was the general treatment of these documents. Has this F-16 extension document been treated differently from other F-16 documents? If so, why do you think so? You're talking about an economy that would run around 900 million a year for six years. I also hear that this would make it possible to have a wider choice on aircraft in the future. Beyond this economy, one of the arguments that we are constantly repeating, more than legitimate, concerns the safety of our pilots, which would be better assured if new aircraft were to be purchased and not extended. Of course, we must pay attention to the safety of those men who serve the country and who work to defend us. However, I hear in what you say that savings would not be just financial and that there would be an influence on staff. You say that, having gone on a mission several times, you know that it is important for the quality of it. Very naively, I understand that, for the safety of pilots, it is important that they be supervised by technicians, logistics specialists, etc. Would this quality of personnel that the extension would allow also ensure the safety of pilots? Can you estimate, in terms of personnel, what this economy would represent? You say you passed the information on to your hierarchy. Have you been informed of what the hierarchy has done with it? Have you received an acknowledgement of receipt? Did you feel that this information was disturbing? If so, why? If you did not have the impression that this important information was being treated as you thought, why not have it sent directly to your appropriate minister or other member of the government? Or did you pass it on? Mr. Miller is astonished at the contents of Lockheed Martin's reports. On the other hand, it is not surprising that the various reports that have been transmitted to us offer different conclusions. The reports in question are this document which you have just mentioned and which is ultimately the source of the events of the last few weeks, as well as the classified report about which we cannot say anything but which has been attached to the internal defence audit and investigation, without anyone asking for it and which appears in the documents of the dark room. I am surprised that no one questions the difference in the conclusions, while these documents come at very different times. Mr Decrop, as I said, I salute your courage. You're, in my opinion, what we call a whistleblower. I'd like to ask you about your vision of D.A. status. But maybe you won't want to intervene on this. I fully understand that you do not prefer to enter into this kind of debate. I now turn to Mr. Decrop's hierarchy. Do you confirm that you have received this information? If so, could you just tell us what you did with it? If you didn't do anything about it, why? How far do you think your responsibility has been involved in this market, which, I would remind you, is worth EUR 15 billion, when we are told of EUR 900 million in savings per year? I now turn to Mr. Dupont. If I call you "sir," it's because I have some difficulty with the ranks. Do not see impertinence or disrespect. It's just so you don't commit an odd act. Mr. Dupont, we hear you haven't been informed. You're the only one who hasn't been informed. I wanted to know how you felt about it. In your opinion, why didn't the information arrive at your house while it was circulating? I also have a question about the audit or rather the internal investigation of Defence. Everyone will understand what I'm talking about. There were auditions. We are told that, during these hearings, a superior was present. Could you confirm that? Is that the usual procedure? In addition, I learned, through the press, that one of you – or several? – allegedly refused to sign his audition. Is that true? If so, why? Finally, I would also like to know whether there have been recent modernization procedures on the F-16s. If so, what was the cost? What would be the consequence of this on a possible extension of our aircraft?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u24	I have some questions for Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. We agree that the information you should have come to Parliament, I think there is consensus on that. If we are on a parliamentary committee, or if that information comes to us through your superiors, then certain parliamentary questions could be asked. In this context, I ask my questions. I would have asked you the following: I regret that we have not been able to do so. What exactly is your case? Saving EUR 150 million a year, times six, is a large amount, namely EUR 900 million. But I read this in your e-mails and I allow myself to speak about this because you have brought it out, you say in your e-mails, which you sent to the generals, among others, that there are conditions for the savings. So there is good news, EUR 900 million that we could bring in, but at the same time you say in the same communication that there are conditions attached to it. I read in the file that IAT recorders are needed. If I follow it correctly, we don't have this one, or just half of it, and this didn't start until 2006. That is why I am asking you with all sympathy that you stick your neck out but these questions must be asked exactly what your case is, because we do not have these IAT recorders? You say that there is good news: we are going to save 900 million because we are going to fly longer with our equipment. In any company, this would be good news. We can drive our camions longer than we thought, and that will save us 900 million euros. Congratulations. However, I forgot to say something: in order to make that saving, we should have had tractors on our camions and we do not have them. I think the CEO, who would be pleased that the information comes to him or her, would say that this is 'conditional' good news, because we don't have those IAT recorders. If this is happening in a company and it does have important information to come to the Management Committee or the Management Board, why do you not give that information straight up within the DG MR, but diagonally to the project team? I won't be so naughty by saying that it seems like you're trying to influence the procedure, but why don't you go straight up? That would be the most logical way to inform your CEO, in your case the top generals, of what you intellectually and analytically think the case is at that time. Again, either we have those trackers and that's good news. I see everyone's already tweeting that we missed 900 million, but of course we don't have those trackers. Do you mean something else? Are you saying that you would get that 900 million euros via soft or hard SLEP anyway? Then you should say that you have a net saving of x million euros, being 900 million minus the cost for hard or soft SLEP. You say that if they had followed you, we would have made 900 million euros for society. That would have come, but, again, what is your precise answer to the question that your top generals might have asked if you had passed it on? We don't have those trackers. Where exactly did you get 900 million euros? Is that via soft or hard SLEP or is that a net amount that you somehow have in mind? Those are analytical questions that I must ask you, again, I think that this information should have been with Parliament a long time ago. At that time, I would have asked the same questions, but it was up to you to defend your case, because I do not think they are strong. At the moment, without your answer, I do not see exactly how you would get EUR 900 million net.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u25	Thank you, Mr Decrop, for the explanation. Some will blame you for being here today and having been having this debate for a few weeks, but I think this debate is very useful and I would have liked to have had it in Parliament a while ago. I have a few questions for you, Mr Decrop. You've shared the information, up and to the side. You also said that the information should reach the CHOD and the MOD, the Chief of Staff and the Minister, but that did not happen. Why didn't you say that information was sent to where you wanted it to go? My second question concerns the model and what you have told your superiors about the longer use of the F-16. The memos of Lockheed Martin indeed say that a longer use of the F-16... is possible if a flight recorder is used. How conditional is that supplement? In other words, does this mean that the recorders had to be there from the beginning of the use of the F-16...? These are digital recorders, so of course they can also be placed afterwards. Did the recorders have to be placed on the planes from the beginning? That is a very crucial question. My next question is about the lifetime prediction by Lockheed Martin. Last week, Lieutenant General Debaene said this is a useless theoretical exercise. I have been told that it is nevertheless a standard instrument used by the US Air Force. Last week it was said here in committee that the lifetime forecast can happen from 2006. Is that right? Can we only make a lifetime forecast from 2006? Can't this be retrospective? My third question goes along with this and deals with the metal fatigue of the devices and the discussion about actual flying hours versus equivalent flying hours. Are there any ways to measure the metallic fatigue of the aircraft in a different way? In my opinion, there are precedents, for example by checking the partitions for miniatures or by checking the wings for cracks. For such checks there are specialised companies which can calculate the lifespan. Mr Decrop, I come to my final question to you. I refer to the November 2015 memorandum of defence itself. It examines some scenarios and also sets out figures. I assume that you have been one of the experts on that note. In my opinion, that note contradicts what Lockheed Martin puts forward in the two memos. In other words, the principles of Defence in November 2015 do not correspond to the principles of the manufacturer. Did you, as a specialist in the Defense Department, work on that 2015 note? Do you think that the 2015 Defence Memorandum as a document is sufficiently substantiated, including figures, to be able to decide that a lifetime extension is impossible and that we need to buy new devices? Mr Letten, the audit also includes your name, which, of course, should not be surprised. However, at certain times, you do ask not to publish that information publicly. I'm talking specifically about slide 18 here. Why did you ask that this information should not be communicated during a lecture at the Royal Military School? At some point, following a question from a colleague from the opposition, you had slight contact with the cabinet. Why did you at that time feel the need to inform the cabinet about the existence of a memo, when that study, as mentioned here the past period, proved irrelevant? Mr Letten, I have an additional question to ask you: why has your superior not been informed of this whole matter by you? In that case, the matter would have been specific to Mr Dupont. I have a number of questions for Mr Debaene. You said this morning that you only have 16 flight recorders, 27 devices can be equipped with a recorder. The question we need to ask is why not all F-16s are equipped with a flight recorder? You said this morning that you did not have an answer to that, because this issue dates back to your period of competence. I have a general question on this: is our fleet under poor management? My final question is about metal fatigue and the possible extension of life. Does the Air Force today have information on the metallic fatigue of each individual F-16? Do we have such a report of each device on wear and tear, flight hours, what risks these devices may run, what additional maintenance costs may be required for these devices? In my opinion, such an overview is important to know, in order to decide whether we can do more than 8 000 hours of flying time with these aircraft, as the manufacturer's standard requires.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u26	Madam President, I have received a first question from Mr Top on my seniority in the F-16 programme. I started in 1994 in the F-16 program as a young technical officer of the F-16 unit, for four years. Then for four years I've had a job in the Department of Defense that takes care of all types of airplanes of the Air Force. I have then been in the F-16 unit twice: as "maintenance aircraft' and as "group commander' for all departments that maintain all aircraft, vehicles and so on. In addition, I was liaison officer for the F-16 program in the United States for three years. Finally, I was chief of the F-16 programme in DG MR for two years. That's my experience with the F-16. Why didn't I communicate directly to the MOD? There was a lot of pressure at the time. There was a lot of stress about that program and the information that was communicated. There was a request for confidentiality regarding the dissemination of that information. This has been said repeatedly, also orally. When we had to give a few briefings, the dates of the briefings had to be taken out. So there was a lot of pressure, a lot of stress in that area. During that period I also experienced very difficult moments, namely because of my mutation that had to happen a few weeks later. At that time I also had to follow very important programmes, together with my colleagues, for the upgrade of the F-16, a programme of 41 million euro, which was presented to the IKW on 15 May 2017 and approved by the Council of Ministers a few weeks later. That was a very busy time back then. I knew that after my e-mail to my superior and to other authorities who were talking about the F-16 program and the replacement program', I had to go to a position, so I didn't have time and no opportunity to do any other studies to get to a higher level. I had great faith in the two generals and two colonels who were in the e-mails to deliver the message to politics or to a higher level, the CHOD and the MOD. That's why I didn't go straight to the MOD. Nor is it customary to communicate as lieutenant colonel, material manager and sub-section chief of a department directly to the MOD. With regard to the stress gauges, the recorders, I think a lot of questions have been asked about this. I will explain the history of the thirty years of operation of the F-16s, in a rather extensive manner, to arrive at the Lockheed memo, which indicates that we could extend them by six years without an additional certificate of airworthiness. From the beginning, the F-16s were equipped with a mechanical train recorder. The aim was to download it every X hours of flight, send it to the United States for analysis and finally reinstall it into the aircraft, with of course a steering wheel of turns to keep the system permanently on the aircraft. This device was abandoned a little later, as it was logistically very heavy, since it was necessary to systematically send the mechanical cassettes to the United States. For a few years, we didn't have any on our planes. To fill the Defence data during this period, we used a comparison with the Dutch and Norwegian fleets that had another record: the flight load recorder. Then, in the early 2000s, we reset all the meters to zero by conducting a terdown inspection. In other words, a plane was completely dismantled as part of a Belgian-Dutch project. Then we examined it by non-destructive methods (X-rays, ultrasound, etc.).). It was to ensure that the first 15 years of the F-16, during which we lacked data, would not have a negative impact on our aircraft. Later, we installed the same recordrs as the Dutch. They consist of five strain gauges installed at different locations in the F-16 structure. These provide us with much more information than is required by the American SB and ASTM standards, as we record the aircraft's deformations directly. In general, the recorders only record accelerations, whether vertical or horizontal. We have one more element on 20% of our fleet, it is the recording of actual deformations at five different locations of the aircraft. This recording is mainly done below the wing, since according to Lockheed's studies, the wing is the most critical place for the F-16 and is therefore a priority for the measurement of constraints. From 2016 to 2018, we recorded 20%, on average, much more accurate data as required by the standard, and we also provided 100% of the administrative flight data: the number of flight hours, the exact type of mission carried out for each mission, the exact configuration of each flight and the exact location of the flight, so whether it was in Belgium or a mission abroad under different conditions. The combination of these 20% aircraft deformation data and 100% flight administrative data allowed us, and this was confirmed by studies by Lockheed and the US Airforce, to have an almost accurate idea of the current state of our individual aircraft. That's why Lockheed took on the responsibility of officially publishing a document representing the maximum age of each of our aircraft. We first read this document at the ESIP 2016 meeting and it was then confirmed in April 2017. So we have enough data to have, at the moment, a good state of our fleet. It is true that we do not have a system for the rest. I'm thinking of the Individual Aircraft Tracking. We need a record on each of our aircraft to ensure that the structure of the F-16 is used as specified in the certificate of airworthiness until the last day of flight. That's why in 2010, we launched a program to install a second record on the plane. It is now installed on all aircraft. This is a recorder that already exists on aircraft and is used for the debriefing of pilots after flights, the Digital Video Recorder, on which one adds flight information from the central navigation system. All our current aircraft are equipped with this second record and all information is currently recorded and downloaded. There is still a software problem to be able to analyze this data and transmit it to the manufacturer for the end of life of the F-16s. If this second recorder doesn't give any results on the software problem, it is always possible to install a black box, as the Americans did on their F-16. The cost is approximately €200,000 per aircraft, which represents $10 million for the fleet, which would directly cover the need for the aircraft's end-of-life record. We therefore have sufficient data to know the current state of the fleet. We need a record for the end of life of the F-16s, which we are working on. When I left the department, we had to have results pretty quickly. All this scientific analysis – this is much more than a mathematical analysis – is also based on a follow-up of crack inspections on our aircraft. We have 76 points to inspect regularly. Generally, this is done once a year. These crack inspections, which are transmitted to the manufacturer, can be used to assess, at any time, whether a location of the structure is over or under-used. This allows us to have an additional check on the state of our structures. It's really the final check. The scientific and mathematical models give us a good idea of the state of our structures and this is verified during regular non-destructive inspections. With regard to the wings which, according to the manufacturer, are very sensitive parts of the aircraft, we have launched a program at our depot, SABCA, to open all the wings of the F-16s and inspect points that cannot be inspected regularly in unit. This still gives us an additional guarantee as to the condition of our planes and their end of life. One question related to SLEP soft modernization. The SLEP software concerns the use of aeroplanes with flying hours up to the limit of the certificate of airworthiness. The SLEP hard tends to extend the use of aircraft to 12,000 hours, but for this, a certificate of airworthiness is required. So, in Lockheed's memo, it's all about the use of aircraft with flying hours up to the limit of the certificate of airworthiness. How much can it cost to use our flight hours to the limit of the certificate of airworthiness? At the structural level, there are no major additional changes to be made. We need to adapt our inspection scheme to reflect the fact that we will fly to the limit of the certificate of airworthiness. It will therefore cost a few hundred thousand euros. Then it is necessary to see (and several questions have mentioned) whether at the operational level we can keep the F-16s for another six years. For the time being, we have planned the F-16 modernization programmes until 2030. So in 2017, we launched a programme to modernise the electronics and embedded systems of the F-16, presented to the IKW on 15 May 2017 and approved by the Council of Ministers in June 2017; programme of a cost of 41 million euros, analysed by our operational part and which includes modernisations aimed at remaining interoperable with coalition aircraft until at least 2030, interoperable, but also in order to improve the operational security of our aircraft on mission. We have, for example, acquired, which is still under way, a missile detection system to be installed under the wings of the F-16, which allows the pilot to detect the launch of a missile in the direction of the aircraft and to react with either electronic or infrared lures. We've improved our passive enemy radar detection system. We therefore have a unique system on the Belgian F-16, the French "Carapace" system which was developed a few years ago and upgraded since then and which is still undergoing a new upgrade, in order to improve the detection distance of enemy radars and to avoid areas where enemy radars could be present. In this investment dossier, we have also installed a satellite antenna and a satellite communication system, which is still being installed on the entire fleet of the Belgian F-16 single-seaters. This will allow us to operate, it was one of the lessons learned from the last operations, in more mountainous areas and more remote areas, such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria. It was one of the lessons learned, namely that our Belgian F-16s can keep in constant contact with the command posts that run the operation and that can give the "go" at the last minute for a certain target. This is being installed. A new in-flight data communication and exchange system will be installed on our aircraft between 2018 and 2021, in order to remain at NATO and coalition standards. This in-flight data exchange system is obviously crucial for our aircraft. It allows for example to exchange radar images from one plane to another, to exchange radar images of AWACS surveillance aircraft that cover an entire area to our F-16. It also contributes to the safety of our aircraft on mission. In the same program, we will invest in the upgrade of the aircraft's software, which is obviously essential to maintain all components of the aircraft and make them communicate with each other. In 2021-2023, we still have a program planned in the strategic plan to modernize electronic warfare on the F-16 and maintain the F-16 software for the last few years, at least until 2030. In addition to this F-16 2017 investment programme, we launched, a few years ago, between 2014 and 2017, programmes for the modernization of our weapons on the F-16. We acquired a brand-new anti-aircraft missile, the M9X. You probably heard about it when it was inaugurated last year in an F-16 unit. The last upgrades will arrive again in 2020, to be at the same standard as the Americans. We have also invested in small collateral bombs so that we can intervene in conflicts in dense urban areas. These guided bombs can also be dropped at a much greater distance from the objective in order to prevent our F-16s from returning to areas that are too protected and too dangerous. At the Flight Simulator level, we also invested, two years ago, in two new Flight Simulators for our two F-16 units, a program that is also being developed and will be delivered in 2019 to match the standards installed on our aircraft. The pilot will therefore be able to have exactly the same simulation on the flight simulator as in the aircraft, with a much wider field of vision and the latest simulator technologies. At the level of electronic warfare, we have estimated, together with our operational experts, all the necessary changes until the end of 2030. To be able to extend until 2035, it will of course also be necessary to invest again in order to extend the aircraft's software until 2035 and for new standards which may be mandatory for the coalition. My calculation of a budget difference of 150 million euros per year provided for 80 million euros per year for the current budget of the F-16 and 20 million euros of investment per year to continue the operation. That's why I may not have been clear enough before. We arrive at 100 million for the F-16 annually compared to 250 million for the new plane, which basically gives, it is not a precise calculation to the nearest euro, 250 million difference per year. This is a bit of a reason why the SLEP soft can be combined at the structural level with all the operational upgrades we've made over the last two years. A question from Mr. Top was also about whether the number of flying hours with the SLEP hard, thus the long extension, could be extended to 2,000 hours or more. For this, I can only refer to all the briefings that the American army, the USAF, has given us in recent years on their modernization program which now covers 841 F-16 Americans, estimated to allow up to 4,000 hours of flight time. So, a U.S. aircraft was used to perform a full 12 000-hour flight simulation on equipment that allows the aircraft to vibrate as during the flight. The results were even better than expected for the Americans, as they had the plane flown up to 27,000 hours. For security, we have to divide this number by two. This is Rule No. 1 for maintaining a "security" structure. When the structure is tested for x hours of flight at the theoretical level and on a test bench, the life of the actual aircraft is then divided by two. The result is 13,500 flying hours for the American model. So the study, Lockheed's briefing in May 2016, also includes the possibility for countries that wish to do so (it is still a study that remains free, obviously, vrijblijvende study) to extend the flight duration of the aircraft by an estimated 4,000 hours. For our fleet, we need an annual flight plan of 11,000 hours per year. Divided by 54 aircraft, this represents 200 hours per plane. So an extension of 4,000 hours gives us more or less 20 additional years. This is to answer your question. I also had a question from Mr De Vriendt about the sensors. Is that clear enough, or do I have to explain it? Any other working methods? Yes, there are other working methods and we can measure more parameters than specified in the standards. Is aviation safety in danger? No. It is crucial to maintain our aircraft at the level of aviation safety as they have been so far in all areas both at the structural level (we then have the guarantee that our F-16s are in good condition) and at the level of ejectable seats. We must guarantee safety and replace the explosive parts of the ejectable seat as specified by the manufacturer in the maintenance manual. It takes every X years to replace the rockets that throw the seat into the air, the one that sends the canopis (the canopy) into the air. All this needs to be replaced very regularly and will be replaced in the same way until the end of the F-16s. For the landing gear, it is inspected every 1,800 hours in depth. Every suspicious element of the landing gear that would be damaged or worn is replaced as it has been done since the beginning of the F-16. In the other areas, we also have an ongoing program to strengthen and replace the electrical wiring of our aircraft. This program began a decade ago and is currently being implemented within SABCA. It is therefore crucial that the safety of our aircraft be maintained at the highest possible level. I think that in recent years we have achieved this with a very low attrition rate combined with flight procedures that are regularly reviewed, in order to avoid accidents that would not be due to the technique but rather to errors in flight. All this is also updated through procedures that are constantly updated for an aircraft that we know well. This is the advantage of the F-16: It can be maintained both technically and operationally without endangering safety. With regard to the IKW note of 9 November 2015 and its content which was used in the political decision to replace the F-16s, I shall at the same time answer a question which was asked to me by Mr Yüksel, I think, concerning my possible participation in the preparation of this document. I say no. It was developed by the ACCaP cell. I arrived in July 2015. Until November 2015, I did not have access to this document. I couldn't even give my opinion. The content is also new to me, as I was only able to read it recently. It seems to me important to clarify certain things about this note. I do not know whether the purpose of this session is to analyse it in detail, but questions remain unanswered. Some calculations are imprecise. If I consider, for example, the attrition rate of 1 per 10,000 flying hours, 1.2 per year does not seem to me to correspond to the current reality of 0.2 per year. Some things should be clarified in this note. The following question concerned the distribution of information to higher levels. Was there an active effort not to give information to higher levels? I don't really know because I sent the information to the people involved at my level. There was a lot of pressure in the two periods. There was a lot of stress about that information. After the May 2016 meeting, there was also a lot of stress at the higher levels. During the April-May 2017 period, during a meeting with my supervisor to discuss the parameters, I was also told that this document had created a lot of excitement up to the level of the blue generals. I therefore do not personally know what happened after I provided this information. The question arose from Mr Dallemagne, who asked why the studies presented by Lockheed were serious. Be aware that I am not a member of Lockheed and that I cannot answer you on the basis of all the references mentioned in the Roadmap F-16, which contains 50 pages and 95 references. I can't tell you about all the statistical analyses that have been done on the tens of thousands of hours of data flight that we sent to Lockheed. I trust the builder, as we've had for thirty years for the F-16s. At the time I was in the United States, I participated in the structure's follow-up meetings. So I talked to Lockheed's engineers about that. We asked a lot of questions, Belgium was very active in this forum and still is. We have always been told that Belgium has a system sufficient to follow the structure until the end of the certificate of airworthiness. I believe, therefore, that these studies are serious. You can obviously ask for all the underlying documents, but that's thousands of pages, thousands of calculations, thousands of hours of testing. As far as flight safety is concerned, I think we have already dealt with the subject. I didn't get access to the U.S. SPO's note. So I don't know if they're announcing that we can only do airpolicing, you're teaching me. However, I believe that our experience on mission over the last ten years shows that we are doing more than just air space monitoring. We have carried out air-ban missions, they are missions of destruction of objectives in enemy environment, as well as of close air support, which are missions of support of troops on the ground in enemy environment. I do not know what is contained in the SPO report, but I think we have sufficiently shown the example of the operationality of our F-16s abroad. I'd rather not discuss my career here. I don't think this is the right forum to discuss the implications for my career. Mr Van der Maelen, you had a question about the time window if there are no upgrades on our F-16s. I explained what upgrades we are going to do to keep our F-16s operational until at least 2030. After 2030, upgrades are still needed, depending on what we will discover in the period 2025-2030. What operational environment will we be in? What will be the different coalition requirements? And so on. The F-16 replacement window obviously depends on the Belgian decision. This remains a free choice for Belgium. It can either replace the F-16 in 2023-2029, or in 2029-2035, or in an intermediate period. This choice remains open for Belgium. What is the cost of a hard SLEP? What modernisations are needed for this? For that, I must also refer to the American programme. That is even accessible via the internet, on the government account office, la court des comptes américaine, where we find the data. There are also data on a US Government website on the technical investments of all US weapons systems, DTIC or Defense Technical Information Centre. That's where everything is explained. We can also compare it with other countries that have asked for it in the past, such as EPAF countries. An EPAF country has asked what the F-16 needs to have to get a hard SLEP. First, a structural adjustment is needed to go from 8 000 to 12 000 hours. The first study is then to install and have tested one of our F-16s on the test bench. The Americans paid $100 million for that, including the test facility. The price for us for that would be about 80 million. In addition, structural modifications must be made to go from 8 000 to 12 000 hours, estimated at two million per aircraft. That's the American data. In total, this gives for the structural upgrade 200 million US dollars. That for the structural aspect. Then there's the operational aspect. Radar, new display in the cockpit, new computer, new generator: everything needs to be installed in a bunch. The advantage now is that that modification has already happened on all possible types of F-16. Some countries have done so on Block-15/20, our configuration. Some countries did that on Block-30. Some countries did that on Block-40/50. The modification is therefore fairly well described and well documented. There is now a standard package of engineering costs and costs for the equipment. Another EPAF-Iand asked for an estimate. It was estimated at 350 million at the time. The total package for those two modifications, the structural modification and the operational modification, was estimated at 600 million. With risk factor we still have a small difference of configuration. This can therefore be extrapolated to EUR 1 billion for the entire F-16 fleet of Belgium. That's my personal estimate. That's all I have to say. Is a new certification required for SLEP software? The answer is no. This was said in briefing by Lockheed, and recalled in memo notes. This is already defined by the USAF in other reference documents. The SLEP soft is only the use of hours up to the limit of the certificate. In fact, it is mandatory because the effect can occur in the other direction. We could have planes that wear out faster than we expected. It is therefore imperative to follow all planes to the limit of the designer, even if we do not want to extend them all. The Americans are following their planes, too. Other countries have other problems: some aircraft are worn out prematurely. So the installation of recorders and tracking via the aircraft tracking is actually almost mandatory for everyone, in order to go up to the lifespan limit. Therefore, there is no aviation certification required. Mr Vandenput asked why I had not communicated the information at a higher level. I think I have already explained this: the moments of high tension that we experienced at that time, the principle that we warn our hierarchical head and we inform those who are directly concerned with the programme. In our culture, we do not have the habit of directly warning the Chief of Defence or the Minister. I will provide the same answer. I do not know at what level the information was withheld and why. The explanations have been given and I do not think it is up to me to respond to this. I come to the parameters studied at the conference in May 2016. It was really about structure at that conference. No other aspect was investigated. Those other aspects were at home controlled by other programs. The modernisation of the avionics was analysed by another team. The modernisation of the flight simulator was evaluated by another team. The ejection seat and landing gear were followed by another team. The engine is also followed by another team. So all these other aspects were not evaluated at that conference. At the political level, unfortunately, as a military I cannot tell you about my political affinities. I can only refer to my motivations as an officer of the General Staff that are purely directed towards the good of Defence, to the savings that can be made within the latter. I have expressed my concern about the decline in our operational capability. Mr Hellings, you asked me a question about the F-16 comparison. I have completed my personal estimate: it is about 100 million per year for the F-16, if we want to keep them until 2030 and beyond. This is a short extension, so that we can agree on what we are discussing. According to the ACCaP program's estimate, there are 250 million cases per year. Why this difference? It is due to the purchase of the plane. Five billion are planned for the purchase of the aircraft, for the first sets of spare parts, support equipment, etc. In other words, the ten billion is earmarked for the maintenance of the aircraft and its daily use. I will not talk about the career here because I do not think it would bring anything to the debate. With regard to the comparison of fleets by Lockheed, the latter has information from more than 20 F-16 users worldwide. We are talking about more than 3,000 F-16s. All this information is collected by the manufacturer. Any possibility of synergistic information is exploited by Lockheed. Why is the use of one country more "hard" than that of another? What impact will this have on the fleet? Have we not forgotten some inspection points, unlike another country, etc.- Is that what you're saying? All this is updated annually by the manufacturer by comparing data from more than 3,000 aircraft. What about the correlation between the missions of other nations and ours? A correlation was made with the countries most similar to Belgium, in the past, during the period when data were lacking. But, since 2016, we have had our own tracking system. The latter is sufficient to make all the statistical correlations between the 20 per cent of flight hours for which complete records are made and the 100 per cent of flight data provided to the manufacturer. Can the extension or use of flight hours to the limit of the certificate of airworthiness be used without significant investment? We are obviously talking about some investments, about 20 million that I had estimated per year for the F-16s, but no more. Unless, at the political level, we want to change the level of ambition. I cannot decide at my level whether the F-16 should operate in areas where no foreign F-16 can operate. There, we are going beyond our current level of operational ambition. Mr. Miller, regarding the assessment of the risk of exceeding 8,000 hours, the effectiveness of missions... Have I answered your question in other answers? With respect to the gains that could be made, it is a personal estimate, which does not involve the Defence. Either way, we'll have to replace the planes. As I explained in my introduction, my personal opinion is that, thanks to these additional years of the F-16, it can be brought a lot of clarity on the level of ambition. Do we want to lower the level of ambition by 40% or do we want to keep the level of ambition? Much more clarity at the level of the programmes being replaced. There are two candidates left. The two programmes make them talk about regularly in the press and in the military, one for the clear non-estimate of what it will cost – we are talking about the F-35 – and the other for the operational capabilities of the next forty years. It is my personal opinion that these few years could bring us much more clarity on this programme. When should the F-16 replacement or the long extension of the F-16 be evaluated? If you gain six years of life of the F-16, you can shift the choice for the next six years, from 2018 to 2024. It is my assessment of the right time, if, at the political level, it is decided to use our F-16s to the limit of their potential. With regard to ensuring aircraft operationality until 2035, until 2030, we have a very clear idea. After that, an analysis will have to be made between 2025 and 2030 on new threats, new interoperability and communication needs of the coalition. This applies to all types of aircraft. Whether you buy a new aircraft now or keep the F-16s, upgrades will be necessary at this time. Lack of clarity in some replacement programmes: I think I have mentioned this. Why did Lockheed Martin make this gesture in May 2016 to the F-16 community? I don't think it's a commercial gesture. I think Lockheed Martin currently manages 3,000 F-16 – I give a number, I haven't checked how many F-16s exactly fly in the world. I think that for a firm that has a certain monopoly on 3,000 aircraft, it is natural to offer its customers the option of using these aircraft for a longer period of time. I think this has nothing to do with the F-35 replacement program. Mr Buysrogge, I agree that Lockheed's memo is only about metal fatigue and not about renewal. It's about using the maximum certification limit of our F-16s. It is not a real extension, because that does not require a new certificate of airworthiness. The memo is about the maximum use of the structural capacity of our F-16s. It's not about operational aspects. It's not about landing gear or engines. It is purely about the use of the structural capacity of our F-16s. I come to the question about the second e-mail, in which my position is nuanced. After my first e-mail of May 10th, I sent a second e-mail to my superior. That was after a rather sensitive discussion between us. I had to put in the mail literally that the F-16s should not be extended. I deleted that in the draft mail that was introduced to me. That wasn't right. I repeated in the second mail what is in the memo of Lockheed Martin, that our F16's individually may have an extension of life to maximum certified limits, under conditions, as mentioned in the memo of Lockheed Martin. Condition one is the installation of the recorder. It is clear that our fleet must be equipped with recorders until the end of its lifespan. The condition is that other studies must be carried out in the other domains: operationality, engine, landing gear, hydraulics and so on. This is analysed and followed by other specialists. A third aspect of the second e-mail is that we will still have to make modifications in the future. Lockheed Martin does not guarantee with the memo that there will be no additional structural modifications, as we have always done with the F-16. Since the beginning of the F-16 we have had to do modifications to strengthen the aircraft, in order to reach the design certification limit. That will happen in the future. These are the three elements mentioned in my second e-mail. I then refused to send the first version of the mail. Why didn't I follow the line of command? I followed the line of command. In addition, I have informed the officials who seemed important to me in the F-16 programme, and who have also followed the F-16 for some 20 years. All those who are in the e-mail are very familiar with the F-16, the operational and structural aspects. It was in the e-mail I sent. I don't know if the memo or other documents are being visited outside of DOD. Mr Hedebouw, at the level of career, the same thing, I think it is not useful at this level to talk about it. My personal estimate of 900 million, I think I've already explained where this information came from. Have other countries abroad made the changes? Yes. As I explained, now all types of aircraft have undergone operational modifications for the long extension. So there are many possible experiences, many studies that have already been carried out and that must no longer be done for us eventually. It should be noted that some countries will extend their aircraft until 2048. Follow-up of the F-16s will therefore be guaranteed until 2048.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u27	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u28	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u30	The Americans. Other methods to prove Lockheed's indications to extend the aircraft is a fusion of structure data, as I explained to you, not only the flight data. Since 2016, 2018, it's something like 200,000 hours of flight time that have been provided as data. Fusion of data and cracks. Therefore, all inspections carried out on aircraft annually are also used for studies. Our flight profile is also used with the 50 types of missions that are carried out every day for pilot training, for operational missions. We split these types of missions into 50 different types of missions. Each type of mission is analyzed with the data representing that mission. So if it's an air defence mission or an interception mission, a ground attack mission or a training mission, all this is correlated with the necessary data. Of course, we use X-rays, ultrasonic methods, the latest methods of material inspection, whether for metallic materials (aluminium, titanium) or for composite materials that make up the F-16. The role of Lockheed Martin, a dependency of the military-industrial complex? I think it's not just for Lockheed Martin. Regardless of the type of aeroplane you have or choose, you are obviously dependent on the manufacturer. It is important to have absolute confidence in the manufacturer of this aircraft for a very, very long time. Mrs Fernandez asks me if this document on the extension of the F-16s has had a "special treatment"? Yes, of course. Not all documents within Defence receive the same processing. We also have about 100 documents in all areas of the F-16, including engines, other aircraft components, electronics and mission reports. So there are a lot of documents that come to us, and this one was presented, and briefed - not only sent but briefed - in 2016. And so he had a special treatment within the hierarchy where there was a lot of discussion afterwards. 900 million euros savings, guaranteeing the safety of pilots? Yes, of course. It is obviously excluded to save the slightest on the safety of pilots and the most important parameters of the aircraft are constantly monitored, in all areas, and must continue to be monitored until the end of the life of the aircraft. Does the amount of people needed to maintain the aircraft have an impact on our operationality? I think so. Given that we have to carry out missions abroad for a very long period of time, it is obviously necessary to have a pool of sufficient personnel in all areas in order to be able to rotate and prevent the military from going too often, from 2 to 4 months abroad, away from their families. No return from the hierarchy? Subsequently, I was unable to follow this file, of course, given my new role in the Strategy Department. I guess the people in place were able to follow this file later. The refusal to sign the audit - the internal investigation - was solely due to the concern that I had to sign one of the dozens of statements I had made during the internal audit. Why sign one document when I didn't have to sign the dozens of others? It seemed suspicious to me and I didn't want to move forward in a signed official document that would have circulated we don't know where! On the recent changes to the F-16s, I think I've talked about it in detail. As far as the 900 million euros are concerned, it is obviously subject to conditions. There are, of course, conditions to keep our F-16 until the end of his life, including an individual aircraft tracking and the placement of flight recorders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u31	Allow me to interrupt you for an important question. This is conditional. I have also read in your e-mails that you make this conditional. The important question is, of course, whether these conditions are conditional on the past or towards the future. Are you saying that if you make those purchases today, it will be okay for the future and you can carry out your case "B" if I can put it that way, "B"? Or are you saying that you could have carried out your plan if you had flight recorders at the time? That is, of course, a fundamental difference. What's your answer to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u32	Lockheed knows our past very well. They've had all our data for 30 years. They were indeed not complete but by Lockheed's study in the past it was established that we have sufficient data to make a state of play regarding our F-16 structure. For the future, this should not be interpreted as such; now we need to install flight recorders on our aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u33	So, if one buys it now, this year, then one can carry out your plan. Is that your thesis?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u35	However, we have here a note that was in the data room, which was also presented in a summary last Friday, in which the military leadership said: "According to the IAT directive ENSB09001, 90% of the flight data must be recorded over the entire life of the aircraft." It continues as follows: "The current system on F-16 does not allow to record 90% of the flight data nor to provide the required data format. In addition, the lack of historical data for 2006 remains an insolvable data." That's what your hierarchy writes when you say it's no problem. The note continues as follows: "Considering these elements and the fact that Defence does not have the technical competences, the fleet manager cannot assume responsibility for adapting fleet management to EFH, equivalent flying hours." Suppose you're talking to your hierarchy that says you don't take responsibility, what do you do? This is indeed about historical flight data. We have here a directive from the IAT which stipulates that you must have 90% coverage. However, you say, in quotes, that you know better. Then who's gonna sign it? Will you do that? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u36	For the sake of clarity, we don't need a signature. Using the F-16s up to the certified lifetime limit does not require an airworthiness signature. That was clearly briefed by the manufacturer and the US Air Force does not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u37	If you say "up to the maximum," do you mean the six-year extension?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u38	The extension of six years is using our F-16s to the maximum lifespan. If we fly up to 8 000 hours, we do not use our maximum limit. We phase out our F-16s before they reach the structural limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u39	Does this mean that the number of aircraft will be reduced during the last six-year tail, because they will reach 8 000 hours of flight one by one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u40	That happens one by one. There are a few planes that will reach the limit first. We must manage the fleet properly so that the oldest aircraft fly less than the youngest aircraft and we can still use the entire fleet during those six years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u41	So you would take the responsibility to say that the maximum duration can be reached, despite the fact that less than 90% of the historical flight data was recorded, as stated in the official note distributed by the military leadership? You put your hand in the fire that this won't cause any trouble?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u42	I've talked a lot to Lockheed's engineers. They claim, I do not claim, that we can fly up to the limit without a new airworthiness certificate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u43	That's "A" and "B." We will have to ask some more questions about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u44	I didn't say that. And about that 90 %, the standard is that enough parameters need to be measured, but it doesn't say exactly which parameters need to be measured.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u45	I can only read out the following sentence in an official document for Parliament: 'According to the IAT directive ENSB09001, 90% of the flight data must be recorded over the entire life of the aircraft'. What is the value of that phrase?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u46	The flight data may also come from the flight data. Of these we have 100 % of the data. It was approved in a Lockheed document in a previous analysis that we can use that data for gapfilling of the data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u47	Colleagues, I would like to finish the replies first, otherwise we will never get there. Then there is a second round of questions. I can see six or seven fingers in the air now, while Lieutenant Colonel Decrop hasn't even answered all the questions. We'll never get there. I will return the floor to Lieutenant Colonel Decrop.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u48	Mr Yüksel asked me why this information did not come up. I don't know what happened on a higher level. I think it was enough important and crucial information to be communicated to the CHOD and the MOD. I can't stand for other people's opinions. Should the flight recorders have been present from the beginning? Ideally, yes. We had installed recorders on our fleet from the very beginning. At some point, we didn't have any dates. This was covered by other countries. Then we have had the large data of the stretch strips that give more data than the required data, and 100 % of the administrative data. Is the lifetime forecast a standard tool for the USAF? Yes, it is. That's in the standards, ESB1. The standard also comes from another standard, STM1530, which also explains everything about the Structural Integrated Program (SIP). This standard applies not only to F-16s but to all types of aircraft. Is there another way to measure metal fatigue? Yes, it is. It is mandatory to carry out a detailed check on our F-16s. As far as the cracks are concerned, the result was 76 points. Did I work on the 2015 note? My answer is no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u49	Madam President, the reason I wanted to intervene earlier is because I feel, and I think other colleagues too, that we are getting to the heart of the problem here. The note which was sent to Parliament and from which Mr Bogaert read passages states that 90% of our aircraft had to be equipped with the so-called flight recorders from the outset. We know that this did not happen; you explained it yourself. And that's what we were told. If it turns out this isn't true, there could be a problem in one or two places. I'm declaring myself. Either there's a problem with Lockheed Martin. If you talk to the engineers and they tell you that everything is okay, but to us through other reports, which we asked for, say that a flight recorder should be installed in 90%, then there is the problem. We can ask the people of Lockheed Martin later. Either there's a problem with the Defense Department, especially between the lower and the higher staff. If the story you're bringing here is true, then I think the documents we've received are not true. That is a major problem, particularly with regard to the flow of information from the Defence Department to us. Madam President, I would like to see that clarified today. That's why I propose to confront Lockheed Martin later, if the colonel can stay that long. In this way Parliament can get the right information about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u50	Lieutenant Colonel, as the colleague of the Open Vld says, that is indeed at the heart of the problem. One thing is clear: you have absolutely silenced this Chamber. If we as politicians have a professional position, then we cannot simply ignore your information. What you are saying means that the purchasing process as it is currently under way has been manipulated and prejudiced and that we have not properly seen all the options. As far as we are concerned, the current purchasing procedure must be stopped as soon as possible until it is absolutely clear. As a politician, I feel deceived by the Minister and, above all, by General Debaene. Both have given completely different information. Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, at the time, you were a material manager and currently one of the F-16 specialists in our country. In fact, you say that Defense has sufficient data to assess the state of the F-16 fleet and that it allows them to stay in the air for six years longer than planned, provided a minimum cost. We have always heard from the Minister and General Debaene that flying for six years would cost EUR 2.2 billion more. You go even further and say that 20 years longer flying amounts to EUR 1 billion and that six years longer flying has almost no extra cost. One of two things. Either you don't tell the truth as a specialist in the matter, as a material manager at the time, as someone who apparently was also about to be wrung up and was obliged to send mails you didn't want to send. Either we have been sacked here as a political class by the minister and by the army leadership. I know that this doesn't just pass, because this is a lot of taxpayers' money. Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, I appreciate very much that you put your finger on the wound when you said it was about that six-year extra time when we can make a better decision. If we have only two candidates in the current procurement procedure with five candidates at the moment, we cannot talk about an optimal procedure. If we can keep our aircraft in the air for six years longer, we have six more years to make informed decisions on defence and how we intend to spend the defence budget. Let us make use of those six years and not in the coming months, because that is what we are talking about, making the decision to go on with one of these two devices in full. There have already been notes showing that there is also a preference for the F-35 within the Cabinet and Defense. Let us not make that historic mistake, so that our colleagues will have to write thesis within thirty or forty years and hold hearings on a decision that we are now threatening to take with this generation of politicians. I don't want this historic mistake on my conscience. Moreover, I have learned from you, Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, that the 2015 IKW note was apparently drawn up by ACAP, by the guidance team of the purchase of the new yacht equipment, without asking for input from the current fleet managers F-16. The government decided during the 2015 IKW and for the option life extension no input was requested from you as an expert involved. One thing that is often said and what has surfaced during the past few weeks is that this is only about the body and that all the other things are actually not taken into account. You said that a comprehensive upgrade programme was launched in 2017, allowing our F-16s to be fully interoperable at operational level until 2030. They are "interoperable," operational until 2030. In other words, an extension of six years body can according to Lockheed Martin, according to you and according to all current data. It's perfectly possible. But also operational radar detection, detection of enemy missiles, communication, we are up-to-date until 2030. I will conclude with something I noticed in your speech. A little anecdotal, but still. You said you've experienced a lot of stress, a lot of pressure in your surroundings, including some generals. Colleagues of the N-VA, who have so far shown themselves to be the main advocates of business as usual, this is a great deal of stress and pressure for a study that you also consider irrelevant. You have repeated that, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u51	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u52	If the next six speakers all want to make the same point, perhaps we can just move on to the following replies? No? I could only try.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u53	Madam President, this is an important moment. For weeks, some of the top of the army and the minister tried to make us believe that there was no debate to have because there was no way to extend those planes, which were almost described as old tacots. It's the climate we've created. It was the very obvious: we couldn't extend the F-16s. We have even advanced technical arguments such as the absence of flight recorders. It was said on the CD&V at the Vld that there is no need for debate. There's no choice. Those flight recorders aren't on, which is why this isn't an option. A certain majority party has said to its colleagues from the majority that there is no choice. There was no need for a political debate. And today, ladies and gentlemen, we have the information of one of the greatest specialists in the F-16 programme here in Belgium. He tells us that things are much more complicated than that, that the fly recorders were one of the methods, but there is a lot of other data to gather to know the state of our planes today. I believe that this is a very important fact that fully justifies the decision – and this is what the PTB is asking for – of the F-16 replacement programme to see more clearly the situation that led to this debate today. It is clear to the PVDA that false elements were put forward to make them believe, including parties of the majority, that there was no alternative without those flight recorders. Those facts are just wrong. That is reason enough, ladies and gentlemen, to stop the F-16's replacement program. We must make this political decision today. Second point which I think is important: Mr Decrop pointed out that other countries, including NATO members, are doing so. Worse, even, the United States of America, those who teach us the lesson by telling us that we have to be level, etc., they themselves prolong. This is proof that, if we decide politically, it is possible to extend the lifespan of the F-16s today. Last thing about the atmosphere. Mr Decrop, I thought the side: "Here's the e-mail, sign here!", only belonged to the world of films, and when you describe it, I saw it almost directly. When you describe the tension that must have existed with this order: "Mr. Decrop, here! Sign this document!" And the courage you must have had, because it is still a hierarchical relationship, saying: "No, I can't sign it!", This gives an idea of the climate of tension that created the obligation to buy this F-35! We knew it from a political point of view in the government! In any case, you felt it very strongly. There's only the N-VA to go. But in the army, the fact that there was such a climate is still worrying! Because the question we are dealing with here today – and Mr Decrop has often repeated that it is not up to him to decide politics – is: "Do we have the right to have the information?" That is the whole question today!. And obviously, the analysis was very clear, at the level of part of the high command of the army, and certainly at the level of the cabinet, if we had the information, the purchase of the F-35 would be questioned. After all, if you were really sure of your piece, if it were very clear to the army that there was no problem and that the information would not compromise the purchase of the F-35, you would have given the green light so that the information could circulate. The question is why there has been such pressure so that the information does not come out. Asking the question is answering it! Mr Decrop, I'm telling you "chapeau" for bringing this information here. I now hope that the political world will draw its conclusions. I note that the N-VA no longer knows what to answer. On the CD&V and Open Vld side, I hear more than important questions and big questions like houses. It's time for the N-VA to recognize that the cabinet made big mistakes and that the top of the army did the same. We tried to suffocate information to force the F-35 to be bought. This is a political scandal, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u54	The disadvantage of a long political career is that historical comparisons can be made. I have the same feeling as when we discovered at the time that the government guard was a state in the state. The conclusion we have to draw after Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's testimony is that the military thinks that one is a state in the state. People think they have the right to withhold information from the political world. For three years now, when I debate with the Minister in committee, I have always heard the same arguments. Firstly, it is not technically possible to extend the lifetime of the Belgian F-16s. The Minister has not said this once, not three times, not ten times, but twenty times. Today the F-16 army specialist comes to tell us that there is no problem and he tells us what builder Lockheed Martin says. So the first time the army probably misinformed the minister and the minister misinformed Parliament. Secondly, we have been lied to and deceived in terms of cost. To sum up, it now appears that an extension of six to seven years is possible without much additional costs. In the documents and from what we have only heard on Friday, it was said that this cost 1 billion. The note of 9 November 2015 even stated that a lifetime extension of the F-16 would cost 2.2 or 2.3 billion euros. A lifetime extension of six to seven years would not cost much extra and an extension of 20 years would cost 1 billion. That is the second time that the military apparatus has deceived the Minister and Parliament. Last Friday there was another element. Then the emotional element was played out: we wouldn't let our pilots fly with F-16-year-old F-16-year-olds whose lifespan has been extended? The military would never sign it, whereas it is clear that they should not sign it for the six to seven-year extension. The certificate of airworthiness is given by Lockheed Martin and Lockheed Martin has said that the certificate will continue to apply for the Belgian F-16. Lockheed Martin guarantees safety, as it assumes responsibility for airworthiness. I agree with the question put by my fellow Members. As far as I am concerned, this means, first of all, that Belgium must now initiate a competition procedure at Lockheed Martin in order to obtain the conditions for the short extension on paper and for the possible renewal by 20 years, as an additional option. Pending that study, the existing procedure for purchasing a new fighter aircraft should be suspended. I said it yesterday in the course of the proceedings, but immediately after the end of the second day of hearings, we must have a political debate in the Chamber with the Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Budget. After all, what has come to light here must never be accepted by Members of Parliament in a parliamentary democracy. I hope that the majority of my fellow Members have now come to the conclusion that we are not looking at a different situation here. Parliament must carry out its task in a parliamentary democracy, which is to control the use of taxpayers' money. We may be able to avoid a massive waste of taxpayers' money at the last minute. That is our duty, and we must do this from today on. I hope that we will be able to transcend the limits of majority and opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u55	Thank you, Colonel Decrop, for the information you provided. I do not have the parliamentary experience of Mr. Van der Maelen, but I am surprised by a fact that comes back very regularly. As parliamentarians, we tend to draw conclusions by having only one bell. I hear the opposition using rather alarming words. In her view, in the light of Mr. Decrop's testimony, it is time to review the entire process under way. As far as I am concerned, I am somewhat surprised that conclusions are drawn on the basis of one person's testimony. I would therefore like to hear from Mr Decrop's colleagues. I would like to ask three specific questions. Mr Decrop, at some point you say that you have been asked, in view of the pressure, to hide or hold information. If you say that, someone asked you. If that was the case, it would be interesting to know who. That's my first question! It's precise. Second question: during your speech, I believe you failed to mention the Multinational Fighter Program. I'm not gonna teach you what it is. But a fundamental element has not yet been identified. I ask you a specific question: knowing that, within the framework of this Multinational Fighter Progam, our American, Dutch, Danish partners will be equipped with F-35, can we continue to operate with our F-16s? Is it feasible or not? I am talking about the ability of our air force to continue to work in the same way, with the same ambitions and objectives as today. Is it feasible or not? I'm really surprised you didn't discuss this. Thirdly, a fundamental element as well, you said that the Americans extended their F- 16 until 2048. Yes, but what you didn't say, and about that you surprise me, is what type of F-16 it was. According to my sources, it is the C and D versions that are technologically far superior to the A and B versions that we have. So I think we're comparing apples and pears. I wonder why, when you said that the Americans were prolonging, you did not complete your remarks by saying what kind of aircraft they were, not those that corresponded to ours. Explain to me why! Because you know it logically. You're the specialist in the field. Tell me why you didn't tell us! Because, in this case, I understand that we are drawing hasty conclusions and that we come to the conclusion that we need to review everything. Give us all the information we need to form an objective opinion! I am surprised that, in your speech, you did not refer to these two elements which for me are fundamental. You may have an excellent reason, which I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u56	Mr. Thiéry, what is interesting is to know that these F-16s are being extended until 2048, when we received documents in the House telling us that beyond 2030, no F-16s would fly and that, therefore, if we were to continue flying our F-16s, we would be embarrassed, because we would be the only ones. It's a document that I received in the House a while ago and that was just overturned by Colonel Decrop. I'm less happy to learn this information. I am also very pleased to learn all this information in a very sober, very clear, very clear tone, which sometimes indicates with some information we have received in the past and which was not always very clear or even confused. I'll wait for the reaction to that. But it appears that we finally have another bell sound. Because the other bell sound, let me tell you, we've had it for several weeks, but this one, not yet. So it was very valuable to get it, for our information, and very clearly, we have good planes. That is what we were told before. Very clearly, they can accomplish the missions they carry out today, contrary to the very special note of Lockheed-Martin, which puts us "red lights". To answer your question, Mr Decrop, there is only one "green light" in this last note, it is the "Air Policing" point. For everything else, there are only orange or red lights. This means that it is still serious to have information that is given to us all of a sudden (and in a rather simplistic way, anyway) to tell us that these planes can no longer be used. We now have the information that we can maintain our level of commitment, our level of ambition, achieve savings, and possibly, if necessary, extend. But I had a question for Colonel Decrop, who had not yet been addressed – because I think it is important to take stock of all the issues – it is the question of industrial returns, of societal returns. I would have liked to know, in the event of an extension of the F-16 programme, whether there is an impact on societal returns? Could our companies be affected in terms of employment, research and industry? Or, on the contrary, would it be possible, through the savings achieved, to reinject money into Belgian industrial sectors which, perhaps, today do not have the means to be able to make progress, in particular in the evolution of new technologies, new armaments on Belgian territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u57	Madam President, the question before us is a very important and very important one. She needs to be answered very clearly. I am therefore very interested in the reaction of General Debaene and Mr Letten. After all, they have partly made the communication to us. The conditions for longer flights, including through recording, are very important. We heard a very different story here in the Chamber last Friday. I hope, however, that we will soon hear a second version. Later tonight we can also put the question to Lockheed Martin and the people of the US Air Force. Mr Decrop, what remains with me from your answers on the study and the Memorandum of Defence itself of 2015 is that you state that there are still questions to be answered and that certain issues still need to be clarified and updated. However, the military's decision is based on that note. On that point, too, I see a contradiction. I also hear today that the note was drawn up by the ACAP team. That's the project team responsible for looking for a new device. I would do an overall analysis of the various departments and compartments of Defense. However, you will have a study done by the team responsible for searching for a new device. I think that's a little weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u58	Madam President, I would like to speak briefly in view of what we have heard so far. I understand that there is more information to be heard. I am astonished, already at this stage, by the lack of political curiosity because, if there are elements that converge, these are the tensions, the pressure, the anxiety that we felt on this issue as early as 2016. Mr. Decrop told us. He talks about tensions, about e-mails that he refused to send when he had been asked to do so, about manipulations of information. You yourself, Madam President, I would like to remind you that you asked the minister in this committee, saying that you were receiving "chains of mail" – that is your expression – on hidden reports that allowed the F-16s to be extended. Colleagues here have asked dozens of parliamentary questions. At no time did the firm say that there was pressure? Do not make me believe, gentlemen, that when there is pressure and tension in the army, the cabinet is not informed! There was more than one reason to inquire. It is understandable that there are significant pressures, since the N-VA Chair of the Defence Commission, who belongs to the same political group as the minister, receives letters informing her that there are hidden pressures and reports, but neither the minister nor his cabinet have any curiosity. He doesn't ask himself, "Hey, maybe there's something going on that's not normal. Maybe they're hiding things from me." No curiosity! A €15 billion market, hidden reports and no curiosity from the minister? Excuse me, but I am very surprised! What is also very worrying – and I am surprised that others are not surprised – is the great gap between Lockheed Martin's various reports that sometimes say things that do not always go in the same direction. We're pushing Mr. Decrop a little here, I guess he was, too, saying it's only his version. But we also have an aircraft promoter who delivers reports that don't exactly say the same thing. I would like to remind the members of the committee that yesterday, when we talked about the documents that were in the dark room, namely the external audit, the internal investigation of the Defence, but also the new report of Lockheed Martin – which appeared without anyone asking – the minister told us that it contained the truth. I told him it was a truth, and he told us that, no, it was the truth. Frankly, what amazes me most here is the lack of political curiosity. I understand that information sometimes takes time to arrive, especially when it is manipulated. But the chair of the House commission questioned the minister, and he did not think that perhaps there was a need to go and see what was going on there. I find this very worrying. It's not for lack of insisting. We asked questions. We have asked for hearings – and the Socialist Group was not the last – even on the societal impact of this market, as Mr Dallemagne said. Today, confidence in the F-16 market is broken, but other issues also raise questions. I want to ask for a flattening of all these files. The lack of political curiosity is very challenging. At the start of my first intervention, I said that the audits did not answer all three questions. I think we're starting to get the answers. The first answer is that this market has been manipulated and that, despite the warnings we have issued, there has been no political curiosity. However, the Prime Minister had said in plenary that he would analyze the files in the light of all the elements available. These elements must be checked for weeks! These elements, which have been on the table for weeks and which have been confirmed today, deserve, at a minimum, an immediate suspension of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u59	Madam President, I have three points. Firstly, to Mr Fernandez Fernandez. It is, of course, easy to throw everything into a pile and want to work in an atmosphere of suspicion. I should like to point out that, for example, Mr Grosemans' question dates from, if I am not mistaken, May 2016. You're throwing this at a lot now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u60	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u61	The information we are talking about here, if I am not mistaken, dates back to April 2017. That's about something completely different. It's easy to create such an atmosphere of suspicion. I'd rather not be a part of that. Second, to Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. I would also like to tell you that I find it strange that, if you have such important information, you did not find the time to go higher in one way or another. Thirdly, when it comes to interpreting the IAT directive. You say that the record system would be interesting, but we really should not take that into account. The follow-up program, the measurement data of 90 % are actually not that relevant. On the basis of the administrative flight data, it seems that we are already going a long way, if I may summarize you. I think we have the advantage that we are sitting here with other people at the table, that other people are ready to say something and give an answer. I can summarize by saying that you have not been able to convince your direct superiors of those views. Mr Van der Maelen, you are already drawing very high conclusions, while we do not yet have a complete picture of the story. Madam President, I propose that the six other panel members also be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u62	I have another question for Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. Were you asked in the past, either by the Minister, by the Chief of Defence or by General Debaene, to give the explanations you have just given to Parliament? I am particularly interested in the answer to that question. I would find that logical given your position and your expertise. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u63	Madam President, there was only one question addressed to me personally. This is a question from Mr.Top asking if I had participated in the Steering Committee MNFP F-16 in June 2017. The answer is yes, because I am the alternate, I am assisting the bonus, that is, the representative for Belgium who was at the time General Ocula. Has the possibility of extending the life of the F-16s for Belgium been dealt with in the Steering Committee? To my knowledge, no, but since I did not participate in the entire debate, I cannot tell you with certainty. However, I would like to share with you my testimony regarding the MNFP program, which has been the success of the F-16 program so far. Now is the time for dissolution, given that Norway, Denmark and the Netherlands, which are planning to acquire a new fighter aircraft, are more concerned about how they will leave the programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce myself briefly. I've been with the DOD since 1982, which is about 36 years. Since the end of 1992 I have been in constant contact with the F-16 weapon system in my various functions. My first contact took place at the end of 1992 when I was sent to France to be employed there as a technical liaison officer within the company Dassault, now called Thales, under the development programme of the CAPA system. After that, I was also F-16 equipment manager and desk chief. For two years I have also been employed by the company SABCA as liaison officer, where I have been able to follow the structural modifications closely. After a period as a purchasing officer, I was appointed group commander of the maintenance group of the Little Brogel Air Base, followed by a four-year period as a sub-section chief responsible for F-16. That place was filled out by my colleague until recently. In my previous position I was the head purchase service of the flying equipment. Since January 2015, I am head of the flying equipment section within MR Systems within DG MR. Among other things, I held the position of fleet manager but also that of airworthiness authority of all flying systems within the Defense Department. I thought I would repeat the document, but it has been said here several times and I will not wrong you to repeat the document on which we have actually started, namely the document of 26 April 2017 with number Lockheed 16FF1757. I am not going to go over that, the conditions are now known: IAT recorders are recorded everywhere and 90% of the data are recorded everywhere. What I can tell you is that I have learned throughout my life that if I have to take responsibility, I only do so on the basis of written documents, i.e. on the basis of documents which I have been given written and which I find substantiated. On that basis, I will make a decision. I believe I should do that as an airworthiness authority. Otherwise the safety of this will be compromised. I've always done that in my career, including as a purchasing officer. I have a number of points that I do have some questions about when I hear from my colleague. What I would like to say is that, as far as airworthiness is concerned, the SPO memo clearly states that if one were to switch from actual flying hours to equivalent flying hours, a new airworthiness attestation would have to be issued and that the SPO would only give advice. They cannot be like that called military type certificate holder of foreign fleets. Each country is for itself, yet as far as the military fleet is concerned. In the bourgeoisie that's something else, there's that EASA. If we move from one succession system to another, they will give us advice. I will have to analyse that advice together with my team to see if I can agree to it. I've heard one version of the historical data. I can only say that the USAF, which also applies it, has IAT recorders on its fleet from the beginning. IAT recorders are mainly based on counting the number of Gs, gears, and not on measuring distortions of wings. There was talk of the DVA recorders. We've been trying to get it to work for years. The purpose of this is, as correctly stated, to reach those 8 000 actual flying hours, i.e. counting, with our fleet. Unfortunately, we are not able to do so. My explanation is now becoming very technical. The data to be recorded shall come from the enhanced GPS/ENS recorder, the recorder recording all flight data, including the position, accelerations and speeds. Those data are corrupt and we're not getting it properly recorded on the DVA recorders. That's what we've been doing for years. We have tried this with the EPAF countries, the European partners. We're not gonna succeed. Meanwhile, the other EPAF partners have dropped out and Belgium is alone with Portugal to try to get that in technical order. You will notice, if you read certain memos, that the CSI's crack severity indices, which we have on our FACE system and in addition only at 20 % of the fleet, as has been said several times, which from 2006 extrapolation amounts to only 10 % of flights to be converted into a severity factor. That's a hell of a calculation. I'm not a statistical engineer. You know that Lockheed releases a new version of their document every year, their force structure projection. They themselves admitted that they made a mistake between versions 17 and 18 in black and white. I have my doubts about that too. The administrative registration of the flights. Our pilots register their flights, for example air combat or ferry flight. There are also other categories such as air ground fighting. What's important for that individual aircraft tracking is a recorder that collects data frequently. If this happens throughout the flight, people know how the pilot flies. After all, I can imagine very well, and I am not a pilot, that the pilot doing an air-to-air fight, so a calm flight for 90 percent of his flight, but afterwards, at the end of his hour and twenty minutes, pulls a few G's to do air-to-air with a colleague, he puts air-ground fight and calm flight in because he did it for 90 percent. Those IAT recorders record everything through the flight. We have Block-15 planes in use by the USAF. I do not think there has been enough attention paid to this. We have one last plane, the 584 aircraft, which is now in use by the USAF. It's on his end life. I mean by that his design life, as we have our 8,000 hours. With the USAF aircraft it is slightly lower, because they have not carried out the last Falcon STAR modification. They're over 4,000 hours away. I don't know the correct number, but they're on their certified end life. We use that plane because it's the only American aircraft that's similar to our fleet. It is also equipped in avionics, about anyway. We also use it to run tests. The USAF also uses it to do tests, along with a Norwegian plane. It's representative of our fleet. I am now talking about operational representativeness. The plane is end life and the question arose as to what we would do with it. It also had those mechanical strain recorders and the historical data. The Americans have been very rigorous in this. Either we inspected that plane, the cost I recovered, was $ 810 000, and we completely opened it up to maybe an extra 100 or 200 hours to fly, or we stopped. The plane will be grounded. It will fly no further than its certified lifetime. Other Block-15 users, our three mentioned EPAF countries, will ground their aircraft, estimated at 6 200, 7 000 and 6 700 hours. That's the planning. They stop at the 8 000-hour limit. Portugal has a fleet with an average lifespan of 3 500 hours, which is very young. The memo from Lockheed, which I have not read, promises Portugal a very long life. The Portuguese aircraft do not have the same flight profile as our fleet. During the last official F-16 Steering Committee, i.e. the highest level of the MNFP Steering Committee, in November last year, Portugal said it will start the discussion in 2019-2020 to replace the F-16s. So there are a number of elements here that prove what is in the SPO note, namely that switching or flying our Block-15 aircraft is not so obvious. No one's gonna do that. They'll stop even sooner. If we wanted to do it, no problem. This is also part of the November 2015 study, if I am correct. If we were gonna do it, we could do it. There's no problem with that. I am talking about purely technical matters. I am not talking about operational matters. It's possible. However, that will cost money. I read the following in the note from the SPO. "In conclusion, the current service life of the BAF F-16 fleet is 18.000 actual flying hours, which would like to result in the retirement of the fleet in the late 2020's." In the meantime, everyone knows that. "Extending the flight service life"............................................................................................................................................................................................. Then comes the statement General Debaene mentioned about the $1 billion. However, that is not what this is about. This is about operational enlargement. On the one hand, therefore, I have a document which says that we can guarantee and with our eyes up to 8 000 hours. On the other hand, they also say that we can continue, that we can continue to fly, that we can switch to equivalent flying hours, but that they will then give us advice on airworthiness and that we will then do with it as we wish; that is my responsibility. It says here that if one switch from one to the other, there will be enormous additional costs. These inspections must all be carried out. What has been sent to the world is that Lockheed's memo allows you to fly free of charge free of charge up to 9 500 hours. I firmly deny that. Those six years that we are talking about, that is not impossible, we can do that, but it is not free of charge. There's one more element I can give you. Lockheed also says that the more data they have, the more accurate. Lockheed says: give us annual information, then we will make a new printout of our graph. They do, too. That's in the package they're offering us. The annual printout we get cannot serve for me to decide now whether we will sign for 9 500 hours. We will see how we evolve, but the only thing that matters to me is the airworthiness attestation, which is 8 000 actual flying hours and the fact that we may continue to fly provided that "significant investment and time in the program introduces additional risk into the BAF's operation and maintenance procedures." That the conscience is that we can continue to fly has not been put under seats or benches. This is also reflected in the November 2015 analysis. I have a number of other questions to answer. I think it was Mr De Vriendt who asked what flight recorders we have and what we have installed in the past. In the beginning we installed mechanical strain recorders, which measured the mechanical strain at one point. In the mid-1990s, we took them off the plane because they weren't working anymore. For years, then, until 2006, we've been fooling around with the famous FACE system. I would add that we only record the five strain gauges, so we record the five stretch strips. The Netherlands, for example, also record the flight record; we do not. We installed this at 20 % coverage rate from 2006, with the problem of conversion CSI to severity factor, which Lockheed admitted. The goal of those recorders, both the mechanical strain recorders and the FACE, was not to say anything about lifespan. The goal was to help with structural control, and that's what happened. In fact, we have two great tools to manage our structure. A structural road map, already cited by my colleague: an overview of all the structural modifications that we have had to do over the years in order to reach the 8 000 hours. I can list them to you. There's six of them. SABCA will better list it to you, they have worked on it for years. We had to work on our planes all the time to get to 8 000 hours. We're still working on it, by the way. That is the basis of our structure, still service life 8 000 actual flying hours. Then we also have the fast structure maintenance plan, so the inspections we have to carry out to see if we are still on track, because the plane is damage tolerant, so the plane has cracks, to see if we do not have to make any additional efforts to get to 8 000 hours. That's why those two recorders served. For this reason, the entire fleet was not equipped: it was not necessary. It is sufficient to equip a representative part of the fleet. After all, we have always seen our fleet as a whole, and we still do that today. A statistically satisfactory number of aircraft is sufficient to determine the structural roadmap for the entire fleet to reach 8 000 hours. Never or never have these two recorders served for life extension. However, I admit that all new aircraft are equipped with performant IAT recorders. Those IAT recorders can and will most likely be used for the lifetime extension. That makes sense, too. With today's technology, we can do that. In addition, these recorders are embedded in a robust structural follow-up program. That's the future. The new aircraft will certainly be equipped with it so that aircraft can be measured exactly how much it has flown over the years. I can make another comment. The graph showing that we can exceed 8 000 hours of flight time and, for example, go up to 9 500 hours of flight time. Well, most of the measurements took place from 2006. It is true that a calibration took place on the basis of 2 000 flights, but most of the measurements took place from 2006. It is therefore about the period from 2006 to 2016-2017. Just during that period, the pilots have flown very calmly. They participated in all operations, such as air-to-air-refuelling, long flights, ferry flights, air-to-ground bombing. In terms of structure, the air-to-ground bombing is a very quiet flight, because the aircraft remain at high altitudes to be able to fly safely. The pilots have done very few air combats. For this reason, we sometimes ask for a year's absence of operations so that the pilots can get into all the areas of the plane. Well, if the projection in the graph is simply drawn linearly, then it exceeds 8 000 hours. With that projection, everything can be demonstrated. Lockheed also talks about force structure projections, projections based on current data. Lockheed also asks for new data to be added every year to follow the evolution. However, as a fleet manager, I cannot derive any life extension from that chart. Now I come to another domain. One of the questions was why I didn't transfer this to the higher echelons. Well, I stick to the fact that Lockheed's memo, whether it's the 2017 or 2018 version, doesn't give us any definitive information and doesn't allow us to extend our lifespan. The memos give us an idea, but no conclusion about lifespan extension; they don't serve that purpose either. As a result, there was no new information for me, because the document is not usable in the context of the extension of life. It does not contain any new information for me and is not usable. For these reasons, I have not delivered it to the higher authorities. It is not useful in the discussion about the lifetime extension. Another question was about what the other F-16 users are doing. That has been explained very briefly, but it is important to say that the USAF Block-40/50s of the third generation are F-16's with a hard structure, with a landing gear that is much stronger than ours. These will indeed exceed 8 000 hours, but also thanks to the hard SLEP, which cost more than 800 million. That took seven years. The USAF Block-25/32, the second generation aircraft, are also stronger than ours. They've been equipped with IAT since the beginning. That is where it was found that they had more heavy loads on the aircraft than we did when the discussion went from equivalent to actual. There they were on the other side of the curve. Then they have allowed 10 800 equivalent flight hours to go up to 8 000 actual flight hours. They will probably pass there, but these aircraft do have IATs from the beginning and they are also second generation aircraft. They have a battery of engineers behind them with a know-how we don't have. So, we just can't do all those analyses to get this far. I have explained to you the lifespan of the last USAF Block-15s and have also talked about the other EPAF countries. We are talking about lighter structures, without IAT, without any follow-up from the beginning. I can imagine that our F-16s were seriously burdened at the beginning. I don't know because I wasn't a pilot back then. We also have no battery of engineers behind us to make that analysis. You should not forget that we have the oldest F-16s in the world, with all corrosion problems and increased structural problems resulting in the last two years. I'll spare you the details of that. Today it takes almost twice as long for an aircraft to leave a Sab cabin when it enters to get through a structural program. So many new things are being discovered there. They're old planes in structure. Theoretical models are all easy to interpret. I conclude that, on the basis of the Lockheed memo, it is impossible to continue flying for free over 8 000 hours. At least I'm not gonna sign for that. The memo says it's possible, but with additional efforts. The questions about the upgrades were partially answered by my colleague. I will not go back on it in detail. However, it is important to provide additional information that most upgrades were based on lessons learned from the past wars in which the Belgian Air Force participated. It was urgent operational needs. Satcom, ARC-210 radio and secret radio were quoted. We have installed them in a hurry on our planes, as far as the Satcom is concerned and also others, on which I will return later, totally on our own, without the support of the USAF. We asked for it, but we didn't get it. Fortunately, as far as the Satcom is concerned, we had Dutch friends who had the same operational restrictions and we have managed to do so, hopefully because we only have one plane left, if I am ahead of it to get it on our plane. We're on our own. We're not getting any more support. Other matters have rightly been raised by my colleague. Sniper's just the same configuration. Missile Warning System is an old system that has been in use for years with the Norwegians and the Danes. We'll install it now. The JHMCS, Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System, we now renew, purely for obsolescence reasons. The old system we have is obsolete. My colleague said that we can continue to fly until 2030. You will have to ask these questions to my operational colleagues, but I do know that in the context of the F-16 phase-out, within the framework of the Strategic Vision, we have provided another 25.5 million, as correctly stated. It's called phasing out F-16. This means that we will be able to continue to fly until 2030. Those 25.5 million have been provided for, I do not forget the years, they are in the Strategic Vision to carry out certain investments in a few years, where necessary, so that we can continue to fly our aircraft until the end of 2029 or 2030. Another 25 million is foreseen for this purpose. The 41 million does not therefore contribute until the end of 2030. I've been talking about airworthiness. How useful are our F-16s anymore? We can fly an average of 2 000 hours, because our operational F-16s, single seats, participating in operations, are at 5 900 hours. So we can fly a fourth, until the end of the next decade. Who prevented me from informing the MOD and the CHOD? As has already been said, it was not new information for me. It was and is still not useful information. That's why I didn't inform my immediate chief about that. Let me explain the e-mails of 10, 16 and 18 May. First of all, I would like to mention that this memo has appeared on my radar three times. We worked together daily until June last year. Three times it has appeared on my radar and three times by e-mail, with other people in CC. Not that he came to talk to me about that every day. The first time was in June 2016. I asked for a briefing immediately afterwards. I have received them with the conclusions that I know, particularly the framework conditions have not been met. In December 2016 I saw a chart appear in the briefing for the third cycle trainees. I had asked my colleague his draft on 8 December. That's normal, I guess. My other three deputy chiefs have also given me their draft. I have also commented on this. Monday was the session of the third cycle. I received his draft Friday night. I responded on Sunday. You will see that many of my e-mails are sent on Sunday. Doesn't mean I don't work the other days. I responded briefly on Sunday night. It said that ACCaP was in a crucial phase. I'll come back to that later. It was about 35 slides. Suddenly an extra slide came with a graph without the preconditions. If one sees this one can immediately deduce that one gets to 9 500 hours, without mentioning the conditions. It was about 37 slides. Could have been 40. He got a little less than an hour. That goes with question and answer. That's gonna happen real fast. I wanted to prevent information from being sent back into the world with the wrong conditions. That's why I asked you to avoid that information. There were also senior foreign officers present. I didn't think it was possible that possibly a presentation that could lead to the wrong conclusion too quickly was communicated to foreign officers. It is also my duty to avoid misinformation being sent to the world. This is also one of my responsibilities. I hope you can understand, for that I may have to apologize, that e-mails are not perfect prose pieces for me. I do a few tens of thousands a year for all the weapons systems that fly. I have to be to the point sometimes. I learned my lesson. As of today, I will write my mails differently. I'll be more extensive and make fewer e-mails. In the e-mail I also mentioned that ACCaP is in a critical phase. That's right. The process started in 2014 and aims to, normally, end up in a decision this summer. It won't surprise anyone if I say that buying new fighter planes isn't an obvious matter. That's no more than normal. To ask the taxpayer to be able to spend large sums of money, this requires strong and comprehensive staff preparation, up to the highest political levels in this country. I therefore felt and felt obliged to make sure that this process was not tarnished and is treated with fake news, which is this graph, especially if it is shown without the meanwhile known preconditions. That's why I asked you to get the slide out. I said I was triggered three times, in June 16, during the presentation period and in April. In the meantime, I have not been called upon to do so. I asked for a briefing and more explanation the first time. Now I come to the e-mails of May 10th. I was on leave for a week. That's all I'm gonna say. The data subject asked to send the graph to the level CHOD-MOD. On my return I immediately called a meeting with my specialists on the subject. I have three specialists who can help me with this, namely my sub-section chief, my desk chief and my equipment manager. It used to be Captain Boeykens, but he wasn't there at the time. Yeah, he was. He was still there. I immediately called a meeting with the three people. My colleague was on a mission and couldn't. The meeting took place with two of the three colleagues. I asked them to outline the right parameters of the graph. I also received it in an e-mail available to the FIA. That is a slightly more extensive e-mail than the e-mail that my colleague made afterwards. Are there meeting minutes from that meeting? No, I do eight or nine meetings in that style every day. You can check my schedule. There aren't always handwritten minutes. However, there is an e-mail that describes the conditions. Because I wanted to avoid creating the impression of working behind his back, because that's not really polite, I called a second meeting with the same people and people involved on Thursday 18 May. There I asked the same question, namely to explain the correct framework within which the graph should be interpreted. That's what happened. I asked the person concerned to write an e-mail, free of charge, because I was not standing next to him when the e-mail was written. My goal was to simply send that mail back to the initial recipients of that mail without comment from him, as a follow-up e-mail, because there was still no new element for me that allowed me to exceed 8 000 hours. I have therefore forwarded this e-mail to the same recipients as the initial recipients, with my additional conclusion that I have reported to ACAP and the other two generals that there are no new elements that can allow us to exceed 8 000 hours. I can quote it literally, but it is something like that, that there is no approved increase in the lifetime of our F-16s to over 8 000 hours. I hope I have answered the question about those e-mails; I think I have. The next question was whether I helped General Debaene on April 13th or for his presentation on April 13th. The answer is category: no. I've been recalled from shipment. So I returned from the shipment a day earlier. All I've done, apart from preparing myself, of course, is the highest F-16 SPO coordinates requested by the FIA... They asked me to get an address from the USAF and Lockheed. I passed on the name of the F-16 SPO director. At the request of the FIA I sent them an e-mail asking to contact someone from the FIA who was in CC to hold a conference call. So that's what happened. I wasn't there. That was the last contact I had with USAF and Lockheed. So I have not seen all the preparations in this respect. All I've done is prepare myself. Again, this has been on my radar three times, so I've prepared myself. Is there a disagreement between my colleague and myself? There's a technical disagreement. I can't deny that and I think he agrees with me. Technically, we don't agree on that state, on this. Has that had any other consequences? Category no. I can elaborate on that. My colleague does not wish to do so and I am not going to do so unless there are specific questions. Has that had any other consequences? No. I can show you his evaluation paper, I can show you his promotional instruction, you will see that this has had no other impact. Technically, however, we do not agree on the substance of the matter, I admit. Airworthiness, 8,000 hours, can fly more but not for free. There was the question why I did the internal investigation... What happened? I've been recalled from the States, where I attended an F-16 meeting. I returned on a night flight a day earlier. I didn't sleep that night. I can honestly admit that. I landed and at noon I was called to General Robberecht. I must confess that I do not really remember exactly what was in a possible note presented to me by General Robberecht asking him to sign it. What I do remember is that with my full cooperation we have been scrambled through my e-mails on the screen, including through the e-mails that the newspapers had made. After all, I had to explain what had happened. Lieutenant General Robberecht asked me to sign something. He immediately added that he had contacted the army's legal service and that that service had reported that we were not obliged to sign anything at all. I just told him he could write down anything he wanted. He was allowed to sign it, too. However, if he told me not to sign it, I would not sign it either. There was no pressure to sign it or not. I just didn't sign anything because I was told there was no obligation to do that. Do I have any slight contact with the cabinet? I'm responsible for all flying weapons systems. I get in touch with the Cabinet occasionally, except for the follow-up of the F-16. That's what the A.C.C.A.P. Office is specifically for. The last time I remember getting in touch with the cabinet was at the transition from the C-130 to the A400M and the infrastructure buildings of the A400M, the white fleet discussion, the sale of the Alpha Jets and all files other than those for which the specific Project Office was informed, namely the file of the mail drones and the ACCap Office. For all the other files, it happens that I come into contact with or sometimes I am called to the cabinet or to the minister to give a briefing. Unless I really forgot, in that case I'd like to answer it later, I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will keep my explanatory statement much shorter than my two predecessors, which is not difficult. I have already had the opportunity to address you on 13 April 2018 and this morning, so I think my story is clear and clear. That's one of the reasons why I didn't start today. Our people can speak freely, they are not under pressure and can say what they want. I think that has become clear today in what you have heard. If you put two engineers together, they will argue with each other, without necessarily agreeing on the same subject. You have received an example of this today. I'm an engineer myself, so I know what I'm talking about. That was also the reason for my intervention last Friday. Not to break up two fighting engineers. However, I noted that Lockheed Martin's two documents, the public document of April 2017 and the document of February 2018, which the Minister delivered to you all, contradicted each other. They weren't exactly coherent. That is what I experienced here during the debate in the venerable Chamber. I was here on March 20, 2017 and on April 13, 2018. Based on the discussion of 20 March 2017, I stated that we needed facts and figures. That's what an engineer does. You have heard two today who are going to approach facts and figures in their own way, one already more substantiated than the other. It's not up to me to judge that. The intention was to shed some light here. That is why I proposed to send the note to the SPO and to Lockheed Martin. I did so through the ODC, the Office for Defense Cooperation, because I wanted the note very quickly on the spot and also wanted quick answers to get out of it. All I wrote and explained in the synthesis on April 13, 2018 is based on that note from the SPO, based on data from Lockheed Martin. So if there is the figure of EUR 1 billion in it, it is only about the avionics section. It is not the full study, so in other words, the data I quoted there are based on that note and on other established facts and figures. If you doubt that, nothing prevents you from asking those questions to the people of Lockheed Martin, who have probably been waiting a while. That was my intention with that note. I was probably in the same situation as you: give me clarity, give me clarity. Well, the people of Lockheed Martin and of the SPO are here. The signatory of the memo I dealt with last Friday comes with me and you can ask him directly what is behind what he wrote there. That's much better than asking one of my two specialists how long that plane can fly now and how they see it. That is, after all, an interpretation. We go to the OEM, the original equipment manufacturer, and ask him what's going on. I think that is the only good way, which is why I am very happy that the people of Lockheed Martin and the SPO are here today. I would like to add something to the famous note of November 2015. That note was also distributed by the Minister on 20 March, after he had been deconfidentialised. I find it very difficult to imagine that the November 2015 note was drawn up explicitly and exclusively by the team of ACAP. Since these people are going to be on the agenda too, it might be useful to ask them whether they have drawn up that note. I won't give you the answer. I suggest those people give the answer themselves. In my knowledge, they also had other things to do at the time: preparing the schedule for a project of 3.5 or 3.6 billion, depending on how it is completed. I had also received a personal question from Mr Miller. Mr Miller, you asked me whether, for the different forces, the different "colors" or components, there were other procedures to follow. The answer is clearly no. As I explained this morning, there is within DG MR,... The Admiral spoke of four sections that fall under his responsibility. There are two more. It is Infrastructure and Communication and Information Systems. The method is the same everywhere. The Materiel Manager is responsible for management. You heard two today. They are responsible for the management of the material and therefore for the full life cycle of the material. It is they who decide whether equipment or equipment is coming to an end and will make proposals for replacement. It's the same for any type of equipment. Next door, there is the "public procurement" division where there is a clear and clear wall. It takes responsibility at a certain time and carries out any contract in accordance with the directives and legislation, i.e. that the law on public procurement applies to everyone. There is no difference between the colors that need a market. The great advantage in my view, as Director General Material Resources, is that all Defence equipment is managed in the same way. It is no longer like at the time, when there were forces and these forces decided whether or not they would replace or do anything else. No! The rules, the directives are clear. Defence equipment is managed in the same way and is subject to government procurement legislation. Madam President, I think that is enough for me for the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u66	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, I was only asked if I knew about this memo before it appeared in the press three weeks ago. The answer is no. I would add that I was also unaware of a difference of appreciation on the part of my two collaborators. On the other hand, if there were ever one, my door being open, I would have hoped that the message would be passed to the hierarchy, since I was Colonel Letten's direct superior. This would have been normal since it is provided for in our assessment procedures to be addressed to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u67	I wrote down three questions to my address. We are talking here about communication and some quotes in some of my e-mails. So I should be able to look at it to frame everything. I will try to make certain points anyway. With regard to the mention of the Belgian Air Chief, which I did quote in one of my e-mails, it is about third-hand information, which I received from Lockheed Martin after a meeting and of which I never received any concrete confirmation afterwards. So I can't tell you more about that than that one quote. I would also like to answer the question of sensitivity. I suppose we'll talk about the initial discussions I had with Colonel Decrop about the soft SLEP. During those initial discussions, I indeed suggested to him that we first obtain discreet information, so that I could place everything better and more accurately and so that he could frame everything better and more accurately, and so that we would avoid misunderstandings at any level about what we can achieve with soft SLEP. So my advice was simply: let's get some information first, so that we can better frame everything. Then there was the question whether Lockheed Martin's memos came into the hands of people outside of Defense. I only know about some of Depot's people who also participate in those meetings and who, in my opinion, also have access to that memo. That means people from SABCA. I don't know about other people. They get that because they do our depot maintenance on the plane. I think that was all the questions that were asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u68	I've got two questions. The first, Mr Top, dealt with the application for the force structure projection tool. I believe that these questions have been answered several times during the previous meetings here. Let me repeat it briefly. Indeed, in 2017 after consulting my superior commander, Colonel Decrop, I took up Lockheed Martin's offer to look at that tool in the context of correct fleet management, which was my responsibility at that time. We were specifically interested in the methods that Lockheed Martin suggested to compare this with the method that NLR has been proposing to us for years, the CSI index compared to the severity factor that Lockheed proposes. I cannot comment on the 2018 study or the follow-up memo, as I was already mutated to another function as NA90 material manager at that time. I didn't follow up on that file at the time. The second question I received was from Mr Dallemagne. I can answer that very briefly. I don't know about force structure projects for other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u69	My first question is for Colonel Letten. What I still do not understand, Colonel Letten, is your statement that the note, as it came out of that trial on 19 May, was useless to you because of the conditions set out in it. That's an element. The other element is Colonel Decrop's request to pass the information on to the higher level of policy. The internal investigation also revealed an e-mail from Colonel Van Pee with the same question. In short, you have a note with all the preconditions, which you consider to be useless, and there is the question of two colonels to pass them on. I don't understand why you're stopping that note if she's innocent. That's still something I'm asking questions about. Why did you stop that note, which was modified and two colonels insisted on letting them go higher? Secondly, in connection with the note of 19 May, I found that there is a difference between the story of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop and yours. Finally, I want to be able to compare the two business cases. The first case is that Belgium buys the F-35 devices. What will that cost for the next ten to fifteen years? The second case involves extending the life of the F-16 for the same period. How much would that cost Belgium? In the last case it is about the 54 devices, so that we can weigh the pluses and the mins. If I understood correctly, there would only be 34 F-35s in a first round, even though some hope, according to what I understood this morning, that a second series of F-35s will be purchased later. In this way we can compare the business cases with everything else, i.e. investments, operating costs, personnel costs, maintenance costs, training costs, simulators, so with everything that comes with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u70	On the latest statement by Captain Boeykens regarding the 2018 study that he was no longer there, I am addressing those who may be able to answer my question, namely General Debaene or Colonel Letten. Who requested the 2018 study? On whose orders did that happen? I would like to refer to a striking statement by General Debaene concerning the note which has been declassified and which we received on 20 March last, and the information contained in it, we should take it to the truth, otherwise they would not have been classified. We will have to ask the people of the ACAP team whether they have drawn up the note alone or have received help from others and that ACAP had other work, including the preparation of a specifications for the replacement of EUR 3.5 or perhaps EUR 3.6 billion. So there was already a clear mindset: they were already preparing and so they assumed that the decision on the choice had already been made, also in that document for 2015, where it had actually still to be indicated. So the description of the priority was clearly in your answer. You have also mentioned amounts in recent days. I therefore refer to Mr Letten. That is why I want to strongly endorse and repeat Mr Van der Maelen's question on the business case. There are only amounts listed each time. The 2015 IKW note states an amount of 2 billion. Mr Debaene, you mentioned the amount of 1 billion. Now it is also said that the upgrade could cost money. A huge difference is made between soft SLEP and hard SLEP. Here I have the impression that people are confusing these different amounts for all kinds of reasons. We have just received from Colonel Decrop the explanation that, in the case of the short extension, some of the updates following the 2017 decisions are already in progress and will cover the period until 2030. So, like my colleague, I really want to see the business case explained with the exact cost of a soft SLEP with an extension of six to seven years, on the one hand, and of a hard SLEP, as technically described in the 2015 note.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u71	Madam President, I would like to address Colonel Letten, whom I thank for his explanations. I must admit that I do not understand why you are not speaking with your superior who has just said that it is indeed contrary to the procedure. You have a dispute that you yourself call "technical", "technical". You said technically, you disagree. You tell several people, but not your superior. I really don't understand why you don't talk to your superior, who, by the way, is surprised and sorry. It gives the impression that we are actually trying to hide something. I'm sorry to say that, but it doesn't give the feeling that we're trying to solve a problem, that we're trying to agree on a point of view. Beyond the procedure, beyond the fact that it seems to be part of the procedures indicated, common sense would have wanted you to speak to your superior. Frankly, I don't understand. We're in a very important moment for the defense. We're apparently going to have to buy new planes. There's a study. An extremely experienced person who knows the planes well, who can't be said to be irresponsible, who has flown, who knows what safety is, who tells you that he doesn't share your opinion and you "swipe" his words. It even seems that he is being forced to give a different opinion. This is hidden from the hierarchy. Frankly, I don't understand. You tell us today that it was worthless. That's not true! You said yourself that we can extend, but that's not free. It's not nothing! In fact, what you are saying today is not exactly what we have heard and what we have read in some e-mails. We can extend it, but it's not free. I don't think I've ever heard anyone say it was free. At no time did we say it was free. It has been said that it costs an additional $20 million a year. I do find that in your reasoning, there is a lack of figures. Where we've heard figures from Colonel Decrop, you're just telling us, and I think you've repeated it seven or eight times, "it's not free." But I wish I had your numbers. How much would it cost? That way, we can compare them to Colonel Decrop's numbers and see if it's on the way. I also have a question for Admiral Dupont. You note that the procedure has not been followed and that you have not been informed. Was there any follow-up to that? Have you ensured that there is a sanction related to the failure to follow procedures or, at the very least, have any comments been made? Is there now a functioning that allows us to avoid this? Indeed, I had made the remark earlier to your superiors, but you were not there. It happens that you are the only one who does not belong to the Air Component, who is not an aviator, among all the people who have been involved in this file and you are excluded. In a closet, to be a little rough. If I were you, I'd protest, but I'd like to know if there was any follow-up to the fact that you weren't involved in it. I would also like to know what you think of the fact that neither the Minister nor the CHOD have been informed of this information. Do you think, now that you know this file, that they should have been informed of this information? Was this information about 500 or 600,000, as the CHOD said earlier? Or does this type of information usually go back to the CHOD level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u72	Dear panel members, thank you for the explanation. I have the next question for Colonel Letten. Colonel, you say that if two engineers are put together, they will have a different vision. We can certainly see that. Then you say, even as an engineer, that it is technically possible to extend it to 9 500 hours of flight time, but you deny that it is free of charge. That's noted. How much is that? It is not zero, but exactly how much euro is that? What is your view, in euro, on Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's plan B? He says it's a savings of 150 million a year, times six, so 900 million if we postpone. What is your mathematical calculation? I know it'll be different. Then I have another question regarding the airworthiness certificate. That's where I hear two bells. Lieutenant Colonel Decrop says it's possible; if it's just until the end of the maximum hours, then one shouldn't recertify. You seem to have a different opinion on that. How is that possible? Even though two engineers may differ in opinion, it seems bizarre to me that opinions on that point can be so different. Then I also have a question for General Debeane. General, you say that the note received only for avionics represents an additional 1 billion. What do you think is needed for the whole? Madam President, I find that a bit bizarre. In principle, we should have an excel table for such a purchase, which makes it clear in which column what is to be found. Hence my questions to Colonel Letten and General Debaene: if you have to assess Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's plan B, what figures do you attach to it in good faith, according to your understanding? How much do you think Lieutenant Colonel Decrop's plan will cost? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u73	Thanks for the explanation. I have two observations. The study at Lockheed Martin will be requested in January 2017 by Mr Decrop, with the approval of General Letten. You requested the study from Lockheed Martin yourself? You will then receive information about the possible life extension and the associated costs. Then you decide not to forward that information to your superiors or to the CHOD and to the MOD. I understand your reasoning. After all, you are so fixed on the free of charge, the fact that this is free or not. I am making a link with the November 2015 note, where a figure of EUR 2.2 billion is put first. I think you're making a political decision at the time. I took another look at the audit and the internal investigation. In it it is said that MR Sys A, PO ACCaP and MR MP decide separately from each other not to forward the information. You should then take a look at the organogram we have all received. This team decides not to forward that information. I find it remarkable that this team, which is actually busy preparing for that purchase, decides not to forward this politically sensitive information to this part of the page. Do you have an explanation for that? I have a brief question for Mr Dupont. You didn't get the information. Had you received the information, would you have shared this with your commander, the CHOD?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u74	Madam President, I would like to make five brief points. First of all, regarding Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. I asked you another question just now. I would like to add a rather simple one. Can you respond to the analysis, Colonel Letten's opinion regarding the sensors? To what extent can we effectively judge, with the material at our disposal, whether our F-16s can stay in the air for six more years at a minimum cost? Two, regarding Colonel Letten. I have to say, I don't understand why you withheld that information, that Lockheed Martin studies, and refused to transfer it to higher echelons. For me, that's inexplicable, for three reasons. There are e-mails and opinions circulating within the Defense Department. We have seen e-mails showing the political sensitivity of these studies. If something is politically sensitive, then it is up to a politician to tranche it or at least to look at it. There are also colleagues of yours who have explicitly asked for the studies of Lockheed Martin to be passed on effectively. But that didn't happen. In addition, questions were also raised in Parliament. These are all matters that point to political sensitivity and political relevance. The political level is interested and wants to be involved. Still, you didn't push these things through. For me, that's inexplicable. The SPO and the US Air Force confirm your version, Colonel Letten. General Debaene also confirms your version, but it is a note that has been requested from the SPO following the fuss of the last few weeks. At the time of Lockheed Martin's studies, that note and the SPO's replies did not exist. Colonel Letten, on what basis did you say a year and a half ago that Lockheed Martin's studies were irrelevant? You only have that additional information from the SPO for a few weeks, just like we do. We've been able to see it. However, even then, you put those studies by Lockheed Martin aside, as being irrelevant, based on your own assessment and expertise, reflected in the IKW's 2015 note. In the meantime, we have been able to demonstrate that it is not entirely correct and that it is based on a number of prejudices. On the other hand, there was the expertise of the then material manager of the F-16, Colonel Decrop. On the same other side were the studies of Lockheed Martin. Those also weighed through. You didn't have the SPO at the time. It just came up. There were also conversations with Lockheed Martin's engineers, which were held orally by Colonel Decrop. So I find, if I put things side by side, that the one thing is weighing more heavily than your own expertise at the time, to consider Lockheed Martin's studies as irrelevant. I think that other things that were available at the time should have been considered. You seem to have assessed these matters as not sufficiently relevant. The 2015 IKW note has been prepared with input from ACCaP. I have just heard that there has been no input from the then fleet manager F-16. This remains something very bizarre for me, when I make the reconstruction: they ask for input from ACAP, the purchasing team new hunting equipment, but not from those who are perfectly aware of the state of the F-16 fleet at the time. That has just been made clear by Colonel Decrop. One final question is addressed to the people of Lockheed, whom we will hear later. On what basis were SPO's answers prepared a few weeks ago? Is it true that Defense has provided some very heavy, intensive operational scenarios on the basis of which SPO said that the load on our F-16 devices was indeed too heavy to keep them in the air any longer? If that is true, it will of course make those answers from SPO less credible than Lockheed Martin's studies, which have indeed based themselves on individual data from each F-16, 20% input sensors, 100% input from the pilots and also the input from sensors installed since 2010. My fifth and final point concerns the value of the SPO's replies compared to a number of other issues, with the Lockheed Martin study that has taken place, but that will certainly be discussed in the discussion later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u75	Madam President, as the oldest and ugliest on this side, I suggest that I start the second round. The 2015 note has been re-examined a few times. Mr Top asks me why ACCaP was working on other things. I insist on stating that the previous minister had decided to start the study. A specifications for such an investment programme are not written in a week or a month, but that takes time, hence my statement that ACAP was working on other things, namely looking at what should be in the specifications, what one might ask, starting from a certain way of doing the market. That is why I gave that answer. If I am making allusion to the 3.5 or 3.6 billion, it is not because a decision was taken at that time, because it had not yet been taken. However, those figures are the ones that came back when we went to the Council of Ministers in March 2017 with the request for a prior agreement, with the announcement that if we started the project, it would cost us 3.5 to 3.6 billion in investment. That's why I brought those elements together, not because the ACAP team already knew in 2015. Certainly there was no approval to launch the tender on the market. That's not the point. Once again, such a complicated dossier is not written in a week's time, which takes time before it comes together. I have seen you in the past and recently in the Parliamentary Committee on Army Purchases and Sales. You also know that we are putting together dossiers that are serious and that take time to get together. I can also tell you that in any major replacement programme that we are planning work will be put in place in advance. The first job that's put into it is to see what we need. The second work is to see where we can get it. The third work is looking at the prices. These things together determine whether a project can be launched, depending on the budgetary resources. That's where the comment comes from. It is not because ACAP had already received a green on in 2015 to launch a project. No, it's just because the team was at the time writing the cutlery or the technical part of it. Mr Bogaert, you asked me and my colleagues here what the plan B costs. I must honestly admit that I cannot answer that today, for the simple reason that I did not examine it and that was not the intention of the additional questions I asked in my note of 26 March this year addressed to SPO. The intention was to see whether or not we can fly any longer. How are we supposed to interpret the data from these two projects? Can one fly longer: yes or no? The fact that there are a number of numbers in there is convenient for me. Why? I return to the November 2015 note. If you look at that note, which you received from the Minister on 20 March of this year, it contains Annex F. In that Annex F you will find a section, divided into different domains, with prices. What I did with the data, which I received on 5 April this year, was simply checked to see whether the figures quoted for everything related to avionics correspond to the table in the 2015 note. I also said last week that the order of magnitude of those figures was the same. Therefore, my conclusion is that those other figures are probably also in the same order of magnitude. Did we explicitly ask for these figures? No, we did not explicitly ask for it. In other words, there was no renewal of that Annex F of the November 2015 note. It is only because we had corresponding domains that I made that link to say that the order of magnitude of those budgets is the same, which means that we can assume that the rest of the note was also correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u76	General, would you be willing to calculate that plan for us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u77	If we are given that mandate, we will do so and the questions will be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u79	Madam President, I have received a number of questions. I will try to put them together and give a good description of how the tool and the problem ended up with me. I have been aware for years that we were doing these measurements with CSI's and that's more and that they were trying to steer and direct our structural programme. I believe at the end of 2016 Lockheed Martin asks us if we are interested in such a Force Structure Projection. That question will be asked for the first time at the end of 2016. We're just going to answer the question. It's a study at no additional costs. I mean, like all F-16 users, we have a contract with Lockheed Martin. Lockheed Martin offers for the first time at the end of 2016 that Force Structure Projection simply as one of their twenty tools extra. As I suspect all countries, we are going to respond to that question. I'm not sure. I didn't check it out. In April 2017, we will receive an answer based on the data we have collected. I must honestly admit that the performance that has been made is rather surprising. When looking at the graph, it is immediately seen that there is a possibility of a lifespan being discussed. This can be seen in this way when the performance is viewed, without knowing the preconditions. I've asked my people for more information each time, so twice. There is the last e-mail of 19 May 2017. What did not appear in the newspapers is my reply to that e-mail to the person concerned. I write the following: "Grand merci, Rudy, pour ce complément d'information." This has not yet been clear to me. "Thank you for keeping me informed of Lockheed's responses to your request for further clarification of the method used." It was still unclear to me and to my associates exactly what was behind it. That was a document by Lockheed Martin that we first discovered in April 2017. In May 2017, I ask my team, addressed to my colleague but in CC also my two other team members, for more information. I had that information for one month. I would like to make that clear. To this day, it is still unclear what the situation is. I don't know if you're more right, if I'm more right, or if it's somewhere in the middle, I don't know. That is still not clear today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u80	Colonel Letten, you are now making it appear that you were open to more information about Lockheed Martin's methodology. You are talking about May 2017. How do you explain that you are already sending an e-mail on 11 December 2016, in which you write that you hope that no one will think that the lifetime extension is possible? That e-mail completely contradicts the impression you are trying to create here today, as if you were open to questions, that you were willing to look at that and that you are also asking questions about the methodology. Immediately after Lockheed's offer, you are already responding without asking with an open mind for more information about the methodology by expressing the hope within Defense that no one thinks a lifetime extension is possible. For me, this is not an open spirit, but rather a closed spirit and a limitation of the options on the table with regard to politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u81	I can answer your question immediately. I said I was triggered three times. The first time was in June 2016. The equipment manager, my colleague, sent me an e-mail with a similar projection in June 2016, but not from Lockheed. We have always collected points from RADA FACE, from the FACE system. I've seen these dots on a graph for years. In doing so, we consider whether our control program needs to be adapted. In June 2016, I received an e-mail with a linear projection to the future, starting from scratch, and in which they already came to that conclusion. So I was already aware of that performance. It was then an internal document, drawn up internally. In December I made a new remark on the subject, which was presented, so we had never projected it with warning that the wrong conclusion would not be drawn if more than 8 000 hours could be flown. I am still firmly convinced that with the limited data we have, with that FACE at 10% of flights over the whole period, with the margin of error Lockheed admits itself and so on, that if Lockheed were to be asked to sign a document now... This is important: I haven't spoken to them, I haven't spoken to the SPO or Lockheed since my return, not a word, you can check it. If you are going to ask Lockheed to sign a document now extending the life span of the Belgian F-16 fleet to 9 500 hours, I would like to hear their answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u82	It's not about that. This is already a correction of what you have just said, namely: the offer is coming in from Lockheed, I have questions about the methodology and we ask those questions, we have an open mind... No, immediately, three weeks after Defense confirms that they want a force projection for its own F-16 fleet, even before you ask questions about the methodology, that's right, that's a bit further, in May 2017 you responded half a year before, and you said: let's hope that no one thinks the life span can be extended. I can't do that. This does not reflect the open mind that you should have as responsible military in that regard. We are also talking about 23 May 2016, the keynote presentation of Lockheed Martin. For the first time the hard and soft SLEP is explained. The possibility therefore arises that the Belgian F-16s may be able to stay in the air longer. There were already three people from Defense present immediately, not Lieutenant Colonel Decrop as was just said wrongly, but three people from Defense. From then on, there will be that information. The offer comes then, would you like to join in that tool to do a projection for our F-16 fleet? You say immediately: let us hope that this does not lead to a lifetime extension or that no one thinks that a lifetime extension is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u83	I'm trying to make myself clearer. In June 2016, so before the end of 2016, I first saw such a projection based on our points, drawn up by my people. That was news to me. Then I was shocked that this could be derived from the graphs. That was June 2016. The next step was December in which the various e-mails came. I said immediately: ask for information, go ahead. In June 2016 I received that e-mail and I immediately asked for a briefing from my equipment manager. It took place on June 24, 2016, two weeks later. That was a full briefing I got. I also informed the FIA. In that briefing, there were a lot of uncertainties. There was no Lockheed projection back then. You say there are three people involved. We have two people in the States, always. I suspect it was about those two people, being the Belgian senior country representative and the country representative, probably a major and a captain. They sit there permanently and participate in all meetings. I suspect the equipment manager Structure, who works for us, the captain in question, is taking part in those meetings. For years we have been participating in all these meetings with three people and following up on which tools are provided by Lockheed Martin. In the meantime, there are about 20 of them. In June 2016, for the first time, there was the projection by my equipment managers. I'm asking for a briefing. I'm asking for more explanation. I can't hear anything. In December 2016 there will be the famous e-mails. I remember six months earlier that the wrong information should not be sent to the world. I am not convinced today that this is a correct representation of the situation. In May 2017, I will send the email to my colleague asking Lockheed Martin for more information, because I still have a lot of questions about the method today. Without involving me, because I dare not do anything anymore today, my people are almost working day and night to understand what is going on and on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u84	In May 2017, you still had a lot of questions about the method. However, that did not prevent you from making a statement in December 2016, in the sense of let us hope that some do not start to think that a lifetime extension is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u85	Correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u86	Ah, correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u87	No. Can I finish my sentence? It was about that graph. That is not the graph of Lockheed Martin, but the graph made by my equipment managers, which appeared in a presentation for the third cycle. If one does not properly explain how it should be interpreted, so without preconditions and if I am a foreign officer, I immediately see 9 500. I told him to get it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u88	The new fact was already known back then, namely the studies of Lockheed Martin?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u89	Not to me. I discovered it in April 2017. My people go to a lot of meetings. I was informed of this in April 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u90	On June 15, 2016, you received an email about Colonel Decrop's soft and hard SLEP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u91	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u92	Yeah, but you're aware of that, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u93	Yes, but I'm not aware of Lockheed's force structure projection tool. It only came out in April 2017. I am well aware of the problem. I'll show you here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u94	You were indeed aware of Lockheed Martin's methodology, hard SLEP and soft SLEP. There's a possibility. You received an e-mail about this. You were informed, already on 15 June 2016. Then came the force projection for the Belgian fleet. You said immediately: let us not hope that this can lead some people to believe that a lifespan can be extended. In May 2017, months later, you had questions. You said just now that I have an open mind to get some answers on the methodology. You were already aware of the hard SLEP and the soft SLEP Lockheed Martin. You knew we had F-16s from Lockheed Martin, of course. The distinction was emailed to you on 15 June 2016. After that, it was clear that you were aware. However, you reacted immediately, after that offer of force projection: let us hope that no one believes that a lifetime extension is possible. That shows me an overly closed mind in this file. The impression that after that, in May 2017, you still had a very open mind and had asked additional methodological questions, well... It was clear to you. Your opinion was already clear in December 2016, namely: let us not hope that someone believes that a lifespan can be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u95	I'm still convinced of that. I mean... graphs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u96	Yes, but you shouldn't say that you still had some methodological questions for Lockheed Martin in May 2017 to judge that there might have been a track after all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u97	No, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u98	Your judgment was, in fact, already finalized. According to the e-mail reconstruction, you had already finished your judgment in December 2016. For me, this is a problematic element.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u99	I might be able to try to clarify something. We have always followed up the structure with the intention of reaching 8 000 hours. Those 8 000 hours, that is also our objective today. We have FACE's rudimentary records on 16 planes. To get those 8,000 hours for each plane, we need something else, for sure. We must be able to follow each individual plane, otherwise we will never get there. That's why we've been trying for a long time, too. I've explained it to you on the basis of the eggy data record to install an IAT recorder on each plane. This is my practice to this day. This is also discussed up to the highest F-16 levels. I am part of it; I am the promoter of it; I am the driving force behind it to obtain it. I have told you that in the meantime the Danes, the Dutch and the Norwegians have dropped out. You can ask: Belgium is the driving force to try to get those recorders on the planes. The goal is not to extend lifespan, because I don't believe in that. We have far too little data. I am not going to repeat my speech on the Block-15 and so on. The aim is to ensure that we do what we have to do: Belgium has to fly 8 000 hours on each plane. This is going to be a huge challenge. Look at the world around us. I took it on myself. It's my responsibility, because in the time line it matches ACCaP to fly every F-16 to 8000 hours. That will be a serious challenge. I can give you a presentation on the problems of corrosion and on the structural problems we now have. Ask SABCA, what problems we all have at the moment. It will be the biggest challenge for me, or for my successors, to reach those 8 000 hours. That's why I've always been committed to having that IAT tool, not based on that memo. I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u100	It's a good thing you're repeating it. You've said three times that you don't believe in it. That's where the problem is. On one side of the story there was the then material manager F-16 who was the first responsible, who did believe in it. Lockheed Martin's second study confirmed the broad lines of the first. The tone was confirmed. Lockheed Martin has had several months to fully realize that they were wrong. In February 2018, they confirmed their vision once again. So we had the studies, the material manager himself and the talks with Lockheed Martin's engineers. On the other hand, you're standing here telling us you don't believe in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u101	I don't believe in it as a tool or as a decision moment for life extension. I do believe in it as a follow-up tool to get our F-16s up to 8 000 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u102	Madam President, it won't take very long. Mr Letten, I have the feeling that you are beginning to doubt. You started your speech by saying that there are two points of view. You have here the opinion of two engineers who disagree. Two minutes earlier, you said, "The truth may be between us"! This is an issue for me, because you are starting from a basic position which is to say, 'I disagree with my colleague, and I therefore imply that my colleague is not right'. A few minutes ago, you said, "I don't know, the truth may be between us." I think there is a doubt and there are questions in any case. I ask you why, in case of doubts and questions, you did not refer to Mr Dupont who said earlier that "his door was open", which I very much want to believe. While there are two points of view, that you yourself are telling us here that the truth may be between you two, either our hearings have been very useful and have sown doubt in you, so you are moving the truth of you towards the middle, or this doubt already existed. So I repeat my question. Why, if there was any doubt or question, did you not refer to your hierarchy, to Mr. Dupont, who himself said that he had not been informed and who would have wanted to be informed of this difference of views between two of his staff members? If you don't mind, I have another question. Mr Debaene, you say that option B has not been encrypted. I want to be sure that I understand and forgive myself if not, as the flow of information is important today. When you say that Option B has not been encrypted, I hope you are saying that Option B has not been encrypted in light of the latest developments, but that Option B has been encrypted when you were asked by the government to study the various options and before the Strategic Plan was drawn up. And so the decision that was made by the government was made on a numerical basis. I hope I have misunderstood and that it is in view of the last elements that option B has not been encrypted, in which case I will ask you to enlighten me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u103	Colonel Letten, you will first have the floor to respond to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Considering the history of our fleet, or the lack of history on our fleet, Lockheed is just to work with planes like all American planes that have been IAT since the beginning of the year, it's not clear to me how that tool works. I am talking about a tool as a fleet manager, not a lifetime extension. That information comes in three times, and three times I've written for more explanation. In May I asked for more explanation. To this day, I have not received an answer. I still don't know how that tool works in the framework of fleet management. I also know I'm still having trouble getting those recorders to work on our F-16s. I can't. So there are still a lot of questions. That's one point. In the context of a lifetime extension, I keep saying from the beginning that this is not a tool that can be placed in that framework. I said that at first, and I keep saying that. The question is why I do not go to higher echelons, which has been mentioned several times: this is not a document that provides for an extension of lifespan. It may be a fleet management tool. It is interesting, for example, to note that in version 17 and version 18, after correcting some minor errors, we did some 4 000 hours of operations during that period, i.e. a large part of the flights. One immediately sees the impact on the results: one can see the curve shifting, in this case in the right direction, just because in that period... which lasted until the end of our previous operations.. a large part of our flight plan happened in operations: very calm, quiet flights, air-to-air refueling. They immediately see the impact on the result, which is why Lockheed says that an update must be made every year. It's just a force structure projection. I also need that, again, to hit up to 8 000 hours, and I still don't understand how they do it. Lockheed also says it: the more data one gets, the more accurate the tool. If we send them the dates every year, they'll crunch the numbers and see what comes out. This is linked to the lack of technical data from the beginning, until today and until someone contradicts me, until Lockheed contradicts me. If we had asked for a study on the length of life and then they came up with that graph, I would speak quite differently here. (...)(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u105	We never asked. We have asked for a tool to hit up to 8 000 hours and a graph is coming out that can be misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u106	I'll take back what you said to make sure you understand. You were not asked to think about extending the lifespan, otherwise your vision, your analysis of the documents would have been different. Your assessment of the documents would have been different. Is that what you're telling us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u107	We have never asked for a lifetime extension in this way. However, it has been requested in the context of the 2014 memo. So an analysis has been done, as you can read in the 2015 note, into the lifespan extension. That didn't happen in that simple way, let me put it this way. Did I answer your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u108	Yes! Maybe I'll come back to the matter. Thank you, anyway, for your answers, Mr Letten.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u109	General Debaene, would you like to respond to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez' statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u110	Mrs Fernandez, on Plan B, when I say that we have not recalculated, it is clear that in the November 2015 note this case was calculated. It was in this case that a budget of 2.4 billion was reached to keep the fleet until 2035. This is how it appears in the 2015 note. What did I do on the basis of the data at my disposal, with the answer to my note, which arrived at me on April 5th? I just checked, in the well-defined avionics package. Lockheed's proposal comes to a rough order of magnitude, where they clearly state not to use it in a contractual context, it comes to $1 billion, which is the same order of magnitude as the package contained in the 2015 document. When you look at this 2015 document, there are different lines in the Excel file shown in Appendix F. If you isolate the avionics data, you arrive at the same order of magnitude. That is why I said that this amount is equivalent to the amount shown in the November 2015 note. So we can start from the idea that the other orders of magnitude for the other elements to be adapted will be in the same line. If one package is consistent, we can start from the idea that the other will be consistent too. However, once again, no explicit renewal of the data in this annex has been requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u111	Since the last developments almost a month ago, at no time has a budget been requested on what the extension could cost. The data is certainly to be checked. No one thought that new elements were coming to the table, that they probably had to be checked. I'm not an engineer, so I can hear they have to be checked. But no one, even politically, thought they should be quantified. Have I understood this correctly: you have not been asked?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u112	Madam President, I was not quite clear in my previous speech. In our case, the procedures provide that when a N-1 does not agree with its N, there is no reason why it cannot go to see its N+1. If Colonel Letten's deputy disagreed with his point of view, nothing prevented him from coming to see me. To be clear: what he did not do. I didn't know so far. The other question I would like to answer is that if Colonel Letten wants to inform the CHOD or the MOD, he must do so in a very formal way. Should I have been in possession of the information earlier, I had first talked about it via an informal channel with the CHOD to see what we had to do with that information. It is clear that the higher one is in the hierarchy, the easier it is to discuss that information in an informal way first to see what to do with it. There is something; what should we do with it? Should we do something with that? If Colonel Letten thinks at his level: it is not new information about everything that has to happen, and if he wants that information to flow to the CHOD or to the MOD, it is done in a more formal way. It was indeed a little easier for me to talk about this in an informal way. I'm not sure this answers your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u113	My question was...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u114	Mr Yüksel, I would first like to see the other questions put to you by my fellow Members. Interrupting constantly with new questions really doesn't get us any further. We'll finish the agenda. Are there any speakers who would like to answer previous questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u115	Mr. Thiéry spoke about the MNFP. Indeed, it is a structure that has allowed us to save a lot of money in the development of the F-16, the operation of the F-16 and the joint programmes "Multinational Fighter Program" with the United States and four other European countries. Once the other countries pass on another type of aircraft, it is clear that we can no longer join the MNFPs because the two types of aircraft cannot be managed in the same way. Can we partner with the U.S. version C/D? If we choose the hard SLEP with the radar, cockpit, central computer and generator upgrades, we return to the same configuration as the C/D Blocks. Regardless of the structure that is different between Blocks A/B and C/D and needs to be managed differently, electronics, avionics, is identical. The development of software, new electronic hardware on the plane can be pooled again. You asked if I had been asked to hide information. Yes, it is clear that at the meeting, in June 2016, at the time of the presentation, it was asked at the end of the presentation that this information never come out of this office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u116	Excuse me for interrupting, but I asked who did. I knew you were being asked to keep information. My question was who asked it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u117	My direct superior colleague. It was Captain Pingeot at the time, who is not here today. Then, at the request of the second study, to Lockheed, it was also asked not to disseminate this information. During a post-graduate briefing, it seems annoyance, but it is still curious that we cannot discuss something high-level in a forum with senior high-level officers. This was the purpose of discussing the lifespan of the F-16s, the replacement and comparing it with an extension of the F-16. It was also reported to me in the past that SABCA was even asked to hide this information. What also shocked me was a meeting with Lockheed on April 6, 2017, where we were introduced to a new manager at Lockheed. I noted – we can't prove it, but I want to declare it under oath, there's no problem – that, during this meeting, the discussion on the F-16 shifted to a discussion on the F-35, on the cost of it, as well as on the extension of the life of the F-16s, with my supervisor and Lockheed Martin's staff. And a lobbyist asked that no one know about this extension. The answer was, "Yes, we've always done this in the past." It was a little shocking. I marked it. So yes, we asked to hide information. Mr Dallemagne, on societal returns in the event of an extension of the F-16s, I do not have much information to share with you at the moment. I didn't calculate the impact of societal returns. It is clear that all companies operating around the F-16 currently in Belgium would be affected by the installation of any kits on our aircraft. The Avionics structural kits are purchased from the manufacturer but are installed in Belgium. There would be possible societal returns, but I can't give you any numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u118	You suggest that it would be a positive rather than a negative impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u119	There will certainly be more work in relation to the current situation. Mr De Vriendt, did you ask whether the CHOD, the MOD or General Debaene have contacted me in the last few days to discuss this subject? The answer is no. Everything was prepared on their own team. I wasn't contacted before. The CHOD contacted me right after the case, to ask if I was okay and if I wouldn't be compromised in other problems. As far as sensors are concerned, I have already dealt very extensively with the question of recordrs to be installed in aircraft. In my view, as our sensors capture more data than the standard – perhaps 10% – that we need to correlate with the 100% information from flight data, and since Lockheed explains to us that the lack of sensor data can be filled with other reliable information, Lockheed's memo is quite valid and should not be discussed between Belgian engineers. Indeed, in Belgium we do not have the necessary skills to analyse in detail the statistics from tens of thousands of flying hours and the results of inspections throughout our fleet for thirty years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u120	Further clarification as to the prohibition of the transmission of information. I've known since day one that SABCA has access to it, because they're taking part in those meetings. I find it difficult to imagine that I would have said in one way or another that SABCA should not know, because they are taking part in the meetings in the United States. A meeting with Lockheed Martin, could be. I don't remember. Did I say that? That depends on the period. I told you, it's gonna trigger me three times. If I have a graph in mind without the preconditions, on which there is a lifetime extension, then it may be that I have said beware, see that you do not use it to exploit it. That's possible, I don't know. As far as the transmission of information is concerned, I did not express myself entirely just now, but I will do so this time. The e-mail from May 10th, I was on leave all week. My colleague was then appointed as my official replacement. He was MR Sys A. He had the opportunity to inform the higher echelons of the great injustice. He didn't. He sent an e-mail to the people you know about. That e-mail was sent to those three people, being a colonel and two generals. As I explained, I asked for the conditions in two successive meetings. I have never been told that the data from the past are 100% reliable, here is the document by Lockheed Martin, here says that 9 500 can be signed. That's never been said. There are still so many questions today. I asked Quant à la méthodique utilisée to obtain more information. I did. The e-mail was sent to the same recipients as initially. I didn't think it was useful to inform my boss about that. Apparently, he didn't think that was useful either, because he was sitting in my chair at the time. I simply added, in the context of my duties as an airworthiness authority, that there is no new element for me to be able to fly over 8 000 hours. I have certain reservations about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u121	The question of whether he, Colonel Decrop, was contacted by me, the CHOD or anyone else to prepare this case is justified. We didn't contact him. Why didn't we contact him? Because he's currently in a different position, under another responsibility. I've done everything I've done since March 20 with the material manager in question, which is the successor of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. Why? Because Colonel Letten was not present, either in the beginning when he was in the States, or when he took a step back afterwards. In other words, it makes sense for me not to go to Lieutenant Colonel Decrop to get that information, but to go to my team, who works within the DG MR structure and where there are the necessary specialists who can give me answers to the questions. They are also the ones who, for example, have identified the POCs within SPO and within Lockheed Martin, which I then mentioned in my question to the ODC. That's a logical way of working. One always looks at the people one has and only when your people do not have enough capacity to answer the questions one might look at someone else. This was certainly not necessary because the knowledge, as Colonel Decrop himself said... He's been gone a year and a lot can happen in a year. That is why I have simply asked the people who are in my structure and who are there for more than a year to provide me with the necessary information. That's the supplement I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic871x.u122	I'll take a look at the panel. I think all the questions have been answered. [[Assent]] Is it okay to move on to another group? I have the feeling that we are repeated regularly and I think we can only find answers in the next group. I've proposed to the ACAP team to switch with the American Air Force and Lockheed Martin. They agreed to this, provided that they were also discussed afterwards. Thank you very much for that.
