ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u1	Minister, the European Court of Auditors assessed the effectiveness of funding through the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance to Turkey between 2007 and 2020. Among other things, she wrote that there were few fundamental needs, such as the independence and impartiality of justice, the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime, freedom of the press, the prevention of conflicts of interest and the strengthening of external controls and civil society. According to the Commission's own analysis, according to the Court of Auditors, progress in these areas has been unsatisfactory for several years due to a lack of political will on the part of the Turkish authorities. In addition, the report noted that the European Commission did not adequately address IPA conditionality, such as the suspension of funds in the event of non-compliance with the principles of democracy and rule of law. In a resolution on the freezing of Turkey's accession procedure to the European Union, the Court asked that the allocation of IPA II funds to Turkey be removed on the basis of the undermining of the rule of law and human rights in the country, and that funds be used to support Turkish civil society and non-governmental organisations. That resolution was supported by almost every party. Minister, what is your analysis of the Court of Auditors' special report on pre-accession aid? What action will the European Commission take on this? What steps have you already taken to address the points just mentioned in the resolution, in particular the deletion of IPA II funds, to the EU?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u2	Mr van Peteghem, the technical audit is in line with the political findings: a removal of the European values contained in the Copenhagen criteria, which has resulted in a complete silence in the accession negotiations with Turkey. The fact that pre-accession aid to Turkey has not had the necessary impact in a number of fundamental sectors, such as the strengthening of the rule of law and democracy, and that, moreover, there has been a serious operational delay in implementing the programmes, even shows, independently of political considerations, that there are serious shortcomings, both in terms of effectiveness and in terms of efficiency in the use of European funds in Turkey, and it also shows that there is a need for revision. The negative evaluation of the European Court of Auditors, together with the also negative conclusions for Turkey from the mid-term review of the multiannual budget 2014-2020, should result in the European Commission, from 2018 onwards, reducing IPA funds for Turkey and increasing the direct management of the remaining projects, either through the intervention of non-governmental actors or through international organisations. The European Commission already proposed a downwardly adjusted annual budget to Member States and the follow-up committee by 2017. Partly due to continued pressure from a number of Member States in the Council, including our country, the budget programme was already reduced by about a third compared to 2016. The European Commission undertook to propose further reductions from 2018, following the formal conclusion of the mid-term review. At the same time, the funds released were used to increase the programme for the benefit of independent media and civil society in the Western Balkans and Turkey, a regional component of the IPA II programme. For more than a year, and in line with the resolution, I have consistently defended the position in the Council that the IPA contribution for Turkey should be partially suspended and partly reoriented towards programmes to strengthen civil society and safeguard fundamental rights. I did so, inter alia, during the General Affairs Council of December 2016, which addressed the candidate country, stabilisation and association process in the Western Balkans and during the repeated debates on Turkey at the Foreign Affairs Council in 2017. The IPA programme shall be managed by the Commission. Member States may reject proposals only by qualified majority. To date, there has been no majority in favour of a complete suspension of the IPA programme for Turkey. The partial revision carried out by the Commission in the 2017 programme is the result of ongoing pressure from our country and partner countries. We will continue to stress the reorientation of a number of resources for Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u3	I am hopeful of your answer, because we have indeed asked for some of the funds to be suspended and reoriented. I believe that the decisions taken today are in line with what the Chamber has proposed in the resolution. So I can only welcome that. The basic needs are systematically not adequately addressed in Turkey. It is therefore a good thing that we are also responding from our country and from Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u4	Merged Questions No. 24671) by Mrs Jadin and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Mr Crusnière's 24885 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u5	Mr President, Minister, this question dates from a while ago, and in the meantime, unfortunately, the circumstances have changed considerably. On 29 March, the French President Macron met with the Kurdish PYD and his military wing, the YPG. During this meeting, President Macron thanked the Kurds for their "determinating role" in the fight against IS and for the sacrifices they have made. He also expressed his wish to play a mediation role between Turkey and the Kurdish fighters. Turkish President Erdogan reacted very badly. He called this a hostile move towards Turkey and said that France does not know its place. Following the talks with the French President, the Kurdish delegation said that France promised to increase military support for the Kurds. This was not confirmed by the French Government at that time. In the meantime, we know how the situation has developed in Afrin. Firstly, in the context of the European Union, do you have any more information on this potential initiative by France? Did you have any contacts about that? Secondly, what is meant by more French military support for the Kurds? Thirdly, what action can Belgium take on this? Meanwhile, in Afrin, military developments are what they are. In addition, we see an increased flight from that region to our country of displaced persons, from whom the house was taken away by new population groups established in the area by the Turks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u6	Mr President, Mr De Roover, the situation in Syria was discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday 16 April, but this particular point about France's initiative was not raised. To date I have no knowledge of specific French military support for the Kurds in Syria. Tonight I have a meeting and dinner in Paris with my colleague Jean-Yves Le Drian. There I will ask him additional questions about the evolution in Syria and, in particular, about the situation of the Kurds. In any case, Belgium is in favour of a diplomatic political solution to the conflict in Syria. I have often been in contact with Staffan de Mistura in connection with a possible new meeting in Geneva on this subject. If it is acceptable to both sides, a French conciliation may be useful. We will give our support in that case. Belgium recognises the important role played by the Kurdish fighters in the fight against Daesh. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 16 April, I once again advocated an inclusive political solution for Syria in which all groups of Syrian society, including the Kurds, should have their place and feel represented by the government. I believe that this is the case not only for the main groups such as the Kurds, but also for many other minorities. A few weeks ago, we organised a conference in Brussels on victims of ethnic and religious violence. It was very useful to talk about other minorities, such as the Christian or the Jezidian. We are trying to find such a solution. As has already been said, tonight I will be in contact with my French colleague and perhaps I can get a step further with regard to France's possible action in relation to the situation with the Kurds in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u7	Minister, I am aware of your warm relationship with France and I am therefore convinced that tonight's meeting will be fruitful. I hope that we will be informed of the outcome. You refer to the meeting on other minorities a few weeks ago. We know that the Middle East was once an area where many religious and ethnic minorities could live together in a relatively fruitful way. That is a reality that is far behind us today. I hope and trust that you will continue to draw this card at European level. In line with Mr Van Peteghem's previous question, I believe that Turkey's role should be assessed in a very critical way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u8	Mr Crusnière is ill and has asked for his questions. 24885, 24920, 24996, 25050, 25081, 25210. There is also his question No. Question No 25586, by Mr de la Malène 25502 by Mr Luykx. Debates of the European Parliament 25119 of myself is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u9	Minister, to my earlier question about the draft law that allows the Israeli State to grant admission to the creation of communities exclusively for Jewish citizens, you replied that the bill had not yet been adopted by the Knesset and it was therefore too early to speak openly about it. In the meantime, the Knesset has adopted the bill. First of all, can you give me another update on the draft law and its content? Has the clause on the creation of separate community settlements remained unchanged compared to the previous draft? Secondly, do you also believe that the racial segregation bill will help? Thirdly, you did not want to interfere in the dossier, since the legal text was still the subject of a parliamentary debate in Israel. In the meantime, the bill has been accepted by the Knesset. Can you now give me the government's position on the draft law? If not, why not? Fourthly, you also said in reply to my question of December 2017 that you would not fail to raise the matter with your Israeli interlocutors. I would like you to give me an overview of the persons or authorities you have formally addressed in recent weeks and months, as well as the content of your message.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u10	Mr Van der Maelen, the controversial bill on the Jewish nation state was adopted at first reading in the Knesset with 60 votes in favour and 50 against. I would like to point out that the text still has to pass a second and third reading before there can be a legislative text. At each reading, the text must be re-tabled and defended by a Member of Parliament, and then approved or not by the plenary. Between each reading, the text is discussed in the relevant parliamentary committees, where changes can be made. Before the vote on 1 May, the coalition parties of the Israeli Government agreed to suspend the procedure for the text for the time being, as the parties Kulanu and Yisrael Beiteinu and the ultra-orthodox party each expressed reservations about the text. The legislative proposal will therefore only be re-examined under the next legislature, perhaps here too. At present, therefore, we are not yet in a position to comment on the future of the draft, both in terms of the course of the procedure and the final content of the text. It is therefore premature to speak out publicly on the subject. The democratic Israeli debate must still take place without interference. The opposite could be counterproductive. Having said that, I did not fail to share in bilateral formal and informal contacts with my interlocutors, such as the President of the Knesset, our concerns about the maintenance and respect in Israel of the principles of equality and non-discrimination, principles which are also important for Europeans and which were included in the founding documents of the State of Israel of 14 May 1948. This was also the case at the level of the Foreign Affairs Administration during the previous bilateral political consultations on 2 May 2018. Like the other Member States of the European Union, Belgium continues to follow closely the evolution of the dossier. We will have the opportunity to continue discussions next month and perhaps here in the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I take note of your invitation to re-examine the point on a subsequent occasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u12	In the meantime, Minister, the referendum in Burundi is over. A very large majority, 96% of the Burundians, would have participated. There was also an overwhelming majority that allowed incumbent President Nkurunziza to remain in the plush until 2034, thanks to a constitutional change. My question dates back to 15 May, when the result of the referendum was not yet known. Today, we're familiar with it. I would therefore like to rephrase my questions. The amendment of the Constitution suggests that Burundi's society will be under high pressure and that ethnic and political balances will be put at risk again. How do you see the situation in Burundi evolving? We know the government's position. The solution to the situation in Burundi lies in the involvement and cooperation with a number of international partners, the UN, the African Union, the East African Community and the countries of the region. Can you explain what role you see for these authorities? What's to be done there? What else can we do? What can they do in an international context? Our special envoy for the Great Lakes would travel to Bujumbura. Did this shipment take place? Can you tell me what's going on here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u13	Mr President, I have an answer in both national languages, as a question from Mr Crusnière was also added. The referendum, as you said, was held on Thursday, 17 May, and the results were proclaimed this Monday. The "yes" to the constitutional review won more than 73%. The authorities had started the "yes" campaign long before the start of the official campaign and had not given the same freedoms to the opponents. Many of them were arrested because they were suspected of campaigning for the "no". The population has been intimidated and threatened to encourage it to vote "yes". During the official campaign, however, the opposition was able to organize demonstrations and meetings, under some pressure but without major incidents. In fact, these opposition meetings have met with great popular success. It should be noted that part of the opposition had chosen the boycott. On the whole, I obviously regret the lack of inclusion and transparency throughout the process. What can we do to deal with this? Yesterday I made this very clear at a public conference in the presence of the African Union's chairman, Moussa Faki, and the Burundian case-law. It's not just a referendum. This referendum runs counter to the spirit of the Arusha agreements, one of the foundations of the stability in Burundi until 2015. It also threatens the dialogue facilitated by the region, which is stuck. I also refer to the EU declaration of 8 May in which Federica Mogherini, on behalf of the EU, deplores recent developments and calls for the spirit and letter of the Arusha agreements to be respected. We see that the situation in Burundi is not evolving in this direction and that a military regime is gradually being established. This creates a lot of frustration, even within the president's party. Even stability is not guaranteed as the attack on the village of Ruhagarika, in which 26 civilians were killed, demonstrates. As far as international partners are concerned, the proliferation of as many actors as possible seems essential to us, with the United Nations, of course. I greet the action of the Special Envoy, Michel Kafando. The presidency of the Security Council adopted a fairly strong statement on Burundi on 5 April, although it is regrettable that there is no direct mention of the constitutional review. The African Union is also a very important player. I also see a willingness on the part of this organisation to become more involved in mediation efforts. I have already spoken about this with the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Moussa Faki, and yesterday and today with the Commissioner for Peace and Security, Smaïl Chergui, whom I met twice. The involvement of the region is fundamental. It can still exert additional pressure on the Burundian authorities, while at European Union level we have done almost everything we can. We are studying with other partners the possibility of holding a meeting of the Arusha guarantors in New York in June. The guarantors include the United Nations, the European Union and the African Union, as well as countries such as Tanzania, Uganda and South Africa. Such a meeting would put the guarantors before their responsibilities and revive a form of inter-Burundian dialogue on the basis of the Arusha Agreement. It is true that the East-African Community has not really put pressure on the authorities in recent months to take a loyal part in the dialogue. The EAC President Museveni must now assume his responsibility, either by taking another initiative or by passing the torch on to the African Union and/or the UN. Even in these difficult circumstances, we keep talking to everyone. Given the tense situation in Burundi in the run-up to the referendum, our special envoy has postponed his visit to Burundi, but our embassy and our services in Brussels remain in contact with various actors. A visit by our special envoy in the coming months will be considered, but only if he can talk to key actors on the ground. We will continue to strive for good cooperation between the European Union and the African Union with a specific role for the actors in the region. We are also trying to play our part from Belgium. Our main reaction was the possible removal of the spirit of the Arusha agreements. Those chords were the only way to avoid a war. We will at least try to continue the spirit of the Arusha agreements. However, we fear that this will be difficult after this referendum and the amendment of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Indeed, according to the opposition and also the US Department of Defence, a difficult process of democratic start-up took place before the referendum, involving a great deal of intimidation and violence. We understand that the Special Envoy's visit has been postponed but has not been adjusted. I also have a thought. Africa is not a monolithic block. It's a huge continent. We must be aware that some African countries do have transitions. We shouldn't be suffering from some sort of afropessimism. There are also good examples. In addition to Rwanda and Congo, which, unfortunately, might be inspired by what is happening in Burundi, there are also good economies and opportunities for the continent. It is important to highlight that too, not only what goes bad but also what goes well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u15	Minister, on April 8, we learned of the re-election of Viktor Orban as head of Hungary. His party, Fidesz, managed to retain a two-thirds majority, with a score of 48.5%. This represents a four-point increase over the previous election, not to mention the fact that the turnout has reached a historical level in that country where political mobilization is not normally its primary characteristic. Faced with these elements, we must recognize that Mr Orban's victory is total. It is part of a global context of rejection by the peoples of Europe of a European Union as it is today and which they consider, in short, to be ineffective, invasive, corrupt and destructive of the sovereignty of nation-states, thus leading to the impossibility of self-determination of peoples on the basis of democratic principles. This Euroscepticism has been manifested for several years by the triumphs of the sovereignist or extreme right parties. We have seen this recently in Italy, and this seems to be reflected in the establishment of the new Italian government. As the driving force behind pragmatic European integration, our diplomacy is, you will agree, Minister, in disagreement with the sovereignist positions advocated by Mr Orban. Therefore, Minister, what is your analysis of Viktor Orban's victory and the context in which it takes root? Do you think that constructive solutions can be found with the Hungarian Prime Minister on the future of the European Union, despite the radicalism that can be seen in his remarks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u16	Mr Flahaux, Viktor Orban's Fidesz party won with 48.49% of the vote, or two thirds of the seats in Parliament (133 seats out of 199), for its third consecutive term. As you point out, the participation rate has reached the historical level of 68%. The second party, the far right party Jobbik, won only 19.5% of the vote. The Socialist Party saw its score drop from 25 to 12.5 per cent. The government's speech, which has repeatedly portrayed immigration as a threat to the security of the country and to national identity, has therefore borne fruit. Also contributed to the victory of the Fidesz party: the opposition's inability to join forces against the government party, a rather flattering economic record, and social measures aimed particularly at families that have been well accepted by the population. Hungary has a different European vision of ours and this is increasingly seen in different dossiers. However, this does not mean that Hungary can be described strictly as Eurosceptic. Its membership of the European Union, particularly for political, economic and cultural reasons, is nevertheless not called into question by the speeches of the Hungarian government. In addition, surveys show very broad popular support for the European Union, with a rate of 74%. I am therefore in favour of a dialogue with the Hungarian government, particularly on points where our positions differ. The meeting of Benelux Premiers with V4 Premiers in Visegrad last June had provided an opportunity for frank and open diplomatic discussions, as is often said when positions are very distant. Our messages must, however, be clear as regards compliance with the European acquis. I am thinking in particular of migration and the decision-making process. We share this concern with the Commission and other Member States. I'm very attentive to it and I'll stay so. I had the opportunity to go to Marrakech to co-chair, with my Moroccan colleague, the Rabat process on migration with West Africa. There were 58 countries present; Belgium was represented by Deputy Prime Minister Jan Jambon and Secretary of State Theo Francken. I was chairing the meeting. We were able to reach an agreement of 57 out of 58 countries; the only country opposed to the final text was Hungary. We will continue to maintain dialogue, try to convince, but if we fail to do so, we will try to move forward on the various issues to which we are attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u17	Minister, I thank you for your answers that show how much your knowledge of the files is more than pointed, and above all, that you have a vision, which I think is extremely important. You will recall, in the light of the question I asked you in plenary about Poland, the importance of your objective of implementing public freedoms. Unfortunately, in Hungary, freedom of the press is being undermined. We have seen that in the past few days, Mr Soros has decided to "spongle" in Hungary, considering that there is no more space, despite the financial resources at his disposal, for the implementation of his objectives, particularly education. That's an important point. You recalled what happened in Morocco most recently. I hope, like you, that Hungarians, both in Hungary and abroad, as we know that there are a lot of Hungarians abroad, especially in Belgium, will put pressure on the government to return to more realism. It is clear, however, that there is a strong national feeling in Hungary. We can understand that, because this country has always been mentally and morally besieged. It is a peculiarity of its own which must be respected. In this context, I hope that conviction will suffice, although it must be noted that what is happening in Italy will probably make the process even more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u18	Mr President, Minister, on 28 March we learned that the outgoing president, Marshal Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, was being taken back to the head of Egypt with a score of 97.08 per cent, a score that no one would imagine being equal in Europe. However, the participation rate is painfully 40 per cent. Since it came to power, President al-Sisi has brought new stability to Egypt. However, this stability is also achieved through a decline in freedom of expression, political pluralism, access to the Internet, freedom of the press, not to mention the human rights violations often mentioned by NGOs, opponents and associations on the spot. That being said, in his opposition, and especially in Sinai, we know that Daesh is carrying out "lowly recommendable" actions, if I may say so. Egypt is also facing many challenges: economic reforms that are struggling to bring a decent living to the population, a jihadist presence that I have just mentioned and which leads to a tarnishing of tourism, one of the driving forces of the Egyptian economy, and a growing demographics that pose major infrastructure and employment problems, among others. It is certain that President al-Sisi handed over a necessary order in an Egypt destabilized by the revolution of 2011 and the Morsi years. The challenges I have outlined above also require a stable political situation. However, the somewhat authoritarian drift of the Marshal's route must also be denounced. Minister, what is your analysis of the re-election of President al-Sisi? Can our country play a role, particularly from an economic and human development point of view, in the many challenges facing Egypt? And when I talk about our country, I think more broadly about the European Union, of course. How do you look at the resurgence of a form of authoritarianism similar to that of the Mubarak years? We know how it ended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u19	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, President al-Sisi was re-elected on 26 and 28 March with 97.08 per cent of the vote. Several candidates had withdrawn, in a more or less forced manner. Despite all kinds of incentives, the participation rate was only 41.1%. In 2014, it still stood at 47%. It was above all the young people, disillusioned by the poor economic situation, who abstained. The results of President al-Sisi's first term of office are mixed. In general, stability has returned to the country, but terrorism and insecurity remain a cause for concern. The state of emergency remains in force. On February 6, a major military action began in Sinai in order to seriously weaken the jihadists. The fight against terrorism had led to human rights violations in many areas and had affected many groups, including the press and NGOs. In addition, the opposition has a small space. The economic situation is difficult, as evidenced by the huge trade deficit and the bad business climate. The IMF has provided a $12 billion loan. In the meantime, the economy has revitalised somewhat. For example, Egypt grew by 4.2%, with more tourism revenues (+124%) and exports. Our companies are contributing to the country's economic development: Belgian dredging companies have played a leading role in the expansion of the Suez Canal, while Besix is building the new Cairo Museum. Finally, our annual exports to Egypt reached EUR 1.25 billion last year, an increase of 6% over 2016. In its bilateral contacts, Belgium addresses political and societal problems and encourages improvements. Our analysis is that stability won at the cost of human rights is hardly sustainable. Human rights – whether it be freedom of expression, media or association, or other rights that are more relevant to the economic and social sphere – are, in our view, the foundation of development and a foundation for long-term security. Of course, Egypt – whose population growth is significant and whose population is very young – faces a considerable influx of young people into the labour market. It is therefore obvious that even growth of 4% will probably not be enough to meet the expectations of this population – as evidenced by its lack of interest in electoral issues, which I recalled at the beginning of my response. Of course, we remain attentive to the state of freedoms on the ground, while remaining aware that a terrorist threat persists. However, it is necessary to ensure lasting stability, based on respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u20	Minister, thank you for your very fine analysis. I think I forgot a fact. It should be pointed out that President al-Sisi has proved himself – in a country where this remains extremely difficult – a protector of the Coptic minority, whose tendency we know to expatriate massively because of the offensives against it in the Middle Egypt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u21	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Crusnière has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin has converted 25026 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u22	Minister, I am sorry to ask you so many questions, but I am interested in many matters! I know how sensitive you are – you were before I questioned you – to the fate of people who suffer homophobia and transphobia in the world. You have already answered my many oral questions about difficult situations such as in Nigeria where 42 men had been arrested, you will remember. For the past two years, the organizers of the March of Pride in Uganda have been threatened, assaulted and forced to cancel the event. The anti-gay law in Malaysia can cost homosexuals 20 years behind bars. In Trinidad and Tobago, homosexuals face 25 years in prison. These inhumane examples come from Commonwealth countries (each represented by a star on the dress of the Duchess of Sussex), where hundreds of millions of citizens live under anti-LGBT laws inherited from British colonial laws. As every year, the leaders of all Commonwealth countries will hold their meetings in London without exception. Thirty-seven Commonwealth countries still punish homosexuals in the name of old British colonial laws to the point of imprisoning them. Mr Minister, may I simply ask you to draw London's attention to this fact which is contrary to human rights? The United Kingdom, a democratic country that defends the rights of homosexuals and transsexuals, still has a great influence on the members of the Commonwealth. It would be a great opportunity for the United Kingdom, at your invitation or at the invitation of other European partners, to discuss this situation with its partners who have not yet changed their legislation with regard to LGBT people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u23	Mr Flahaux, thank you for this question. We are following the situation of anti-LGBTI laws all over the world with the necessary attention, both from Brussels and in our diplomatic posts. The United Kingdom, like Belgium, as a member of the European Union is implementing the EU guidelines to promote and ensure respect for all the fundamental rights of all lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual people. These guidelines are the subject of concerted local action by the embassies of the Member States of the European Union all over the world. The United Kingdom is also a member of the Equal Rights Coalition. As a reminder, our country also joined in 2016, at a conference in Montevideo at the Equal Rights Coalition, a coalition of more than 30 countries, including the United Kingdom, that lobby internationally for respect for the human rights of LGBTI people. As part of their participation in the Equal Rights Coalition, these countries have made a series of commitments. The aim is to strengthen cooperation between them and with all relevant actors to advance the rights of all without regard to sexual orientation, gender identity or expression and sexual character. This must be done in an open, respectful and constructive dialogue with other States and stakeholders and in close consultation with civil society. The United Kingdom is therefore one of the most active countries on these issues. I have no doubt that he regularly integrates this dimension into his relations with Commonwealth partners. We will have the opportunity to return to this in future contacts with our British colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u24	Deputy Prime Minister, a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers will be held on May 28, 2018. I know this is an opportunity. Britain will thus show that it is still, in a way, the great sister of the Commonwealth countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u25	Minister, I have previously asked you about the Korean rapprochement in the wake of the Pyongyang Olympic Games. This subject brings me back to asking you for further clarification following the latest developments. The possible meeting between Mr Trump and the North Korean leader is already a historic event when we know the fundamental antagonism between these two countries. More surprising, Kim Jong-un said he was ready to begin denuclearization of his country. In this regard, and considering the nuclear defence programme to be sufficiently developed, on 20 April it ensured the cessation of nuclear and ballistic tests. We were also able to observe the visit of the master of Pyongyang to China. This first visit by the North Korean leader abroad since he took office also reflects the fact that the relations between these two allies are far from being broken. And we will probably have to rely on Beijing to resolve this crisis that has been going on for decades. As we thought North Korea was exiled, it took the position of being a major or medium-sized player in this part of the world. Many experts are looking forward to the establishment of a multi-year denuclearization schedule with, as a first step, the de facto recognition of North Korea as a nuclear power. The signing of a peace treaty in the region will certainly also be a demand of Pyongyang. Minister, given that the modalities of the meeting between the President of the United States and the North Korean leader will be clarified at a later date, can you tell me how the future meeting between Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un in charge of your European colleagues and the European Council in general is perceived? Is the suspension of the North Korean nuclear programme and the denuclearization of the peninsula proposed by Kim Jong-un a bluff technique, of which this regime is customary, or is it a real possibility? This diplomatic turnaround in North Korea began at the dawn of the Olympic Winter Games. In your opinion, is it the result of the economic sanctions that are being imposed on the country? If so, should we conclude that President Trump's diplomacy is bearing fruit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u26	Mr Flahaux, your question was dated 21 April. In the meantime, I believe that some of the elements have already been answered. Nevertheless, the actuality of the file continues to evolve as you could, notice it yourself. The summit between President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, on 12 June in Singapore, would be a next step in the process of dialogue between North Korea and the international community, which began with the meeting between the two Korean delegations on the sidelines of the Olympic Games, and the Inter-Korean Summit on 27 April. In the Panmunjeom Declaration, following the summit, North Korea expressed its support for a dialogue on a peace regime for the Korean peninsula and its complete denuclearization. We continue to hope that the inter-Korean summit will be followed by a concrete plan of action and its implementation. The intention to hold a summit between the U.S. President and the North Korean leader was the subject of two trips by my U.S. colleague Mike Pompeo to Pyongyang and probably diplomatic negotiations at a lower level. A first visible result of these negotiations is the release of three American hostages on 9 May. The goodwill of the North Korean authorities cannot be denied. With regard to Pyongyang's seriousness to put an end to the nuclear programme in a definitive and irreversible manner and to allow an international inspection of its sites, for example by experts of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), we can only note that at this time, Pyongyang has declared that it is suspending its nuclear tests and invites international journalists to come and observe the dismantling of its nuclear site (the Punggye-ri site) announced from 23 to 25 May. There are no other concrete signs of its willingness to denuclearize or of what North Korea means by that term. The ultimate goal remains the complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization of North Korea. It could demonstrate concretely its commitment by signing and ratifying the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. That is the message that I conveyed to the conference on the entry into force of this Treaty that I chaired this Tuesday, 22 May, in Brussels, since, together with Iraq, we are playing a co-chairing role in Chapter 14 of this Treaty in an attempt to ensure that ratifications of this Treaty are extended. It would be interesting if countries such as North Korea could also participate in this comprehensive nuclear test ban process. The development of this issue should be monitored closely and the North Korean position has been reversed since the beginning of the year. The International Community believes that sanctions have made a significant contribution to bringing North Korea back to dialogue and to the negotiating table. China, as a permanent member of the Security Council, voted in favour of every strengthening of United Nations sanctions, thus assuming its international role. We will await the possible outcome of the 12 June summit and, as a matter of course, we will see whether concrete steps are really envisaged to move forward towards the pacification of the Korean peninsula and the denuclearization of North Korea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u27	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer, which is tailored not to the reality of a month ago, when I tabled my question, but to today. On the other hand, this seems to me all the more important as it seems that links have been established between Iran and North Korea for the supply of certain nuclear materials. Perhaps some have more evidence about this? In this context, anything that can go in the direction of relaxation, appeasement and reduction can only be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u28	Mr President, Minister, since the beginning of the year, many popular demonstrations have been subjected to serious repression in Iran. Protesters were killed in the streets and others were tortured. In total, according to the Iraqi prison organization, more than 5,000 demonstrators were reportedly arrested. The human rights situation, which was already very precarious in the country, had therefore deteriorated further. As a reminder, Iran still holds the record for the highest number of executions per capita in the world and, according to Amnesty International, more than half of the executions recorded in 2017 took place there. In recent months, the Iranian people have shown their will to change to democracy. It happened a few years ago. During my trip with the Speaker of the House, Mr. Bracke, last October, we were all struck by the people's willingness to meet the Westerners. I have never seen a country in which so many young people come to talk to us in a very enthusiastic way. Mr Minister, what is Belgium's position today on this situation? Is there a need, in your opinion, to take binding measures to force the Iranian regime to release political prisoners, to respect freedom of expression, to stop the repression of women? There are currently movements of women who knowingly take their veil off the street. They are usually sentenced to between three and six months' imprisonment. I find their courage admirable. In concrete terms, what measures could we adopt, in synergy with your European colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u29	Mr Flahaux, I share, as you know, your concern about the human rights situation in Iran and the fate of the demonstrators you raise in your question. Indeed, I am well informed about the situation on the ground. Our embassy in Tehran and my services in Brussels are following these events closely. I would like to recall that the European Union has already adopted sanctions because of the human rights situation in Iran. The European Union Special Representative for Human Rights, Mr. Lambrinidis, whose mandate is actively supported by Belgium, has had several contacts and conducted a number of visits to Iran in this context. With regard to our work in multilateral forums, I would also like to remind you that our country co-sponsored the latest United Nations General Assembly resolution on the situation of human rights in Iran. At the session of the Human Rights Council last March, Belgium participated in the interactive discussions with the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran. On that occasion, our country also addressed the issues of the death penalty and women's rights. As you know, during the same session, the Council adopted a new resolution on the situation of human rights in Iran by renewing the mandate of the Special Rapporteur. Of course, Belgium supported this resolution and co-sponsored it. As far as bilateral contacts are concerned, I have once again had the opportunity to receive my colleague Zarif in Brussels. As always in European debates, the nuclear agreement, the GCPEA, has of course been mentioned for quite a while. The issue of ballistic missiles and Iran's regional role in a number of conflicts and countries in the region are also discussed. I have always come back, and I stress a great deal about it at European level, to the issue of human rights. In this context, I have had the opportunity to refer, once again and with my colleague Zarif, to individual dossiers. You know that we are particularly active in the fight against the death penalty, which regularly allows us to ask for it not to be applied, including in individual cases where I know they are of interest to a number of members of this House as well as to many other outside speakers. We will continue to work in this way. This is done both in multilateral forums and in bilateral contacts. Although there are other issues that are more in the foreground with Iran at the moment, on every occasion we also come back to the human rights issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u30	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I am well aware that you are at the forefront of the defence of human rights and that you never hesitate to address this issue. The regime resembles a theatre of shadows, where real power is exercised by the Guardians of the Revolution and the Supreme Leader, while theoretical power rests in the hands of the president. We have heard again that the latter has spoken in favour of allowing women to enter football stadiums. This may seem secondary or symbolic, but it is also by small steps that one can move forward. However, it is not because the President declares something that this necessarily applies. Secondly, we are concerned about a number of recent reports. The largest courier in Iran, Instagram, shared by half of the inhabitants, has just been suspended although it is also used for economic exchanges, and not only – if I dare say so – for futile activities. That's why I feel like the diet is out of breath. Remember, minister – because we belong to the same generation, even though I am a little older than you – a few weeks before the fall of the Shah, there were regularly large pages in Le Monde to his glory. In my view, we must maintain contact with Iran and therefore depart from President Trump's attitude, but without hesitation to maintain pressure. The Iranian authorities must understand this message.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u31	You are training the minister for our presence on the Security Council. You're going around the world!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u32	Mr President, the Deputy Prime Minister did not wait for me to be aware of the international reality. I am very proud of our Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'm not saying that because he's from the same party as me...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u33	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u34	Mr Minister, last March, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy published a document on an action plan on military mobility within the Union. This ambitious plan, which reflects the objectives set by President Juncker in his State of the Union speech of 2017, sets out certain priorities for achieving a real Europe of defence by 2025. In particular, it addresses issues of military mobility within the European Union, such as transport infrastructure and customs authorisations. Furthermore, this plan clearly refers to the fact that these objectives will have to be achieved without prejudice to the security policies of each Member State. Mr Minister, how do you view these concrete objectives mentioned in the document with a view to finally achieving a real Europe of defence? Do you not think that the 2025 date, referred to as the operational birth of this defence Europe, is not too optimistic in view of the remaining issues? How can we further harmonise our transport infrastructure with our European neighbours? We know that there is an Atlantic tradition in Germany, but Angela Merkel has made a statement that we will have to take charge of ourselves. I think she's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u35	Mr Flahaux, the ambition to improve military mobility is a priority not only for the European Union, but also for NATO. Improving this mobility in Europe is indeed essential in order to be able to respond adequately and in time in crisis situations. As such, the pursuit of this objective is one of the key points of action for cooperation between the European Union and NATO. We will return to this cooperation at the NATO summit in July. The joint action plan launched last March by the High Representative and the President of the Commission focuses on improving transport infrastructure and harmonising existing regulations. As such, it is part of European transport policy. The aim is to seek synergies in the ongoing work and projects on the trans-European transport network, Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T). In this context, an inventory of military needs is under way. It will assess the extent to which the existing infrastructure meets the needs and whether adjustments can be taken into account by the TEN-T project with funding from the Commission. Furthermore, as I have already pointed out, improving military mobility is not only about infrastructure, but also about harmonising regulations on authorisations, customs and VAT in particular. Projects are under way with the support and collaboration of the Member States within the framework of the PESCO. At the Belgian level, interdepartmental efforts are being made to achieve the objectives. We will support all efforts to better integrate these different aspects of European defence, with the desire to explain even more, within NATO at the July summit, the possible cooperation between the European Union and NATO in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. Gramsci, whose political vision I do not share, said: "Where there is a will, there is a way". In the field of European defence, there seems to be a will. I hope we find the way. The Minister of Defence recently told us that there were in fact 23 different versions of the famous European helicopter, corresponding to the demands of each of the armies; and that this was also due to the type of training of the military, and of the officers in particular. Every step that goes in the direction of rapprochement is positive. This does not prevent everyone from having their own particularities. We do not devote enough resources to our defence, perhaps thinking blissfully that the Russians or the Chinese, for example, will always consider us as beautiful people that we cannot touch. I think we're putting our finger in the eye. In any case, your answer is quite right for me, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u37	Mr President, Minister, according to Christos Stylianides, the European Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management, whom we recently received in this committee, and European Union coordinator for the fight against the Ebola virus, following the latest Ebola cases in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), the European Union offers its full support in this regard. The European Union has been closely following the situation and has been in constant contact with the Congolese authorities, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the various partners on the ground since the beginning of the crisis. The European Union is ready to deploy rapid assistance on the ground in close coordination with its partners, such as the deployment of the European medical corps. The experience gained in this type of crisis requires all efforts to manage and control the spread of this disease. Mr Minister, in the current context of our somewhat difficult relations with the Congolese authorities, does Belgium participate in these efforts in the fight against the Ebola epidemic in the Democratic Republic of the Congo? It seems to me to have read that there have been 55 deaths so far. Have specific requests to this effect been sent to Belgium by Kinshasa? Do you have any information on the actual scale of this epidemic? With the current famine in Kasai, it is likely not to decrease, even though Central Africa has a greater knowledge of Ebola than West Africa, where the epidemic took place a few months ago. Has the European Union planned containment plans in the affected areas in order to avoid any spread to other regions of the Democratic Republic of the Congo or even to neighbouring countries? Does Belgium participate financially in this European Union contingency plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u38	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the resurgence of the Ebola virus in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is obviously worrying and deserves our full attention. The number of deaths due to the epidemic is 25 or perhaps 27 today out of a total of 45 confirmed or suspected cases, according to the latest WHO assessment. The first cases appeared in early April in a rural area of the North-West before spreading to Mbandaka, a city of about 1.5 million inhabitants located on the Congo River and connected to Kinshasa by numerous river links. Belgium is participating in international efforts to combat the epidemic. It does so through its support has funds and international organizations. Our country pledged, at the donors' conference on 13 April, to increase its support to the DRC from 18 million in 2017 to 25 million in 2018. An additional $3 million will be allocated to the Common Humanitarian Fund. The latter is managed by the humanitarian coordinator in the DRC. WHO can make use of it. We are following developments closely and will remain attentive to any requests that might be made in the context of the response to this new health crisis. Moreover, it is not excluded that contacts should be initiated by the Belgian authorities with the Congolese authorities, since our aim is to help the population. We have recalled this in many other circumstances. At this stage, WHO does not express the need for additional laboratories. The dispatch of a B-Life laboratory is therefore not planned for the moment. It will be possible if the need is confirmed and with the authorizations for its deployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u39	Minister, thank you for all the answers you have given. With regard to Ebola in the Congo, your answer indicates that Belgium is on its way. We always have a particularly great and sometimes difficult love with the Congo. Despite the tensions, showing that we are always there when problems arise helps to improve our relations between our two countries. I hope so anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u40	Minister, this is a question addressed to the Prime Minister, but it has been reoriented. On 26 April, the plenary of the House voted on the final report of the Commission of Inquiry under reference, also known as the Kazakhgate Commission of Inquiry. In the final assessments adopted by the plenary session, the number 35 is given in particular: "The Commission of Inquiry considers it unacceptable that foreign authorities, in any way whatsoever, should be involved in a judicial inquiry under way in Belgium." What is targeted by these few lines are the initiatives taken specifically in the file well known by the entourage of the President of the French Republic in 2011, Mr Nicolas Sarkozy, as they were notably reported by Mr Claude Guéant, former Secretary General of the Elysée and former French Minister of the Interior during his testimony before the Commission of Inquiry on 3 May 2017. Given its seriousness, this assessment by the Commission of Inquiry undoubtedly deserves political and diplomatic follow-up with regard to the foreign authorities concerned, in this case the French Republic. Mr Minister, can you please tell me whether you have read the report of the Commission of Inquiry – I understand that the answer is yes – and in particular this assessment of the involvement of foreign authorities in a judicial investigation under way in Belgium? What action have you taken or intend to take? Will this report be communicated by you to the French authorities, for example to your counterpart? Has an official contact been made or will it be made by the Belgian government towards the French authorities to denounce the unacceptable nature of their intervention in 2011? What other diplomatic approach do you envisage with respect to this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gilkinet, like the rest of the government, I assume, I have read the report of the commission of inquiry. The government will implement the recommendations voted by the House. For the rest, the report is public.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u42	Minister, I am not particularly or disproportionately surprised at your short answer. I find that she is not up to the facts – nor was the Prime Minister's response yesterday to another follow-up question. I think that few countries would thus accept interference from a foreign country without reacting, and this lack of reaction does not honor the government or your function. That's my opinion!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u43	Minister, I hope that your answer to this question on Belgian Syria policy is a little longer than the previous one because I am asking for an assessment in the area of institution building and reconstruction. I submitted this question in response to a survey carried out by 11.11.11 of the Belgian Syria policy. That policy was assessed against the six objectives set out in the European Syria Strategy of March 2017. Once again, Belgium has clearly been guided. In the field of humanitarian aid and the fight against impunity, the Belgian contribution is acceptable to good. That's classic. Especially in the area of humanitarian aid, we are doing what is necessary. In other areas, however, our country is clearly failing. Compared to the Netherlands, Belgium spent 36 times less on political and stabilising efforts in Syria last year. However, in June 2016, when our F-16s were first sent to Syria, the government had promised to adopt a comprehensive, also political, strategy to ensure that our Syrian policy would not be purely military. I have the following questions for you. More can be done in support of Syrian civil society. Firstly, is the government prepared to support concrete efforts for Syrian civil society through the budget Peacebuilding of Foreign Affairs and through the budget Social Security Building? Secondly, it is good that the financing of reconstruction efforts is handled with caution. After all, the conflict is still ongoing and hasty European funding risks legitimising and strengthening the regime. For example, we may be wasting one of the few levers that the European Union still has in relation to Syria. Nevertheless, are you prepared to advocate at European level a greater effort in the field of early recovery, the restoration of basic infrastructure and facilities? For many people in a difficult situation, that can make a world of difference. Will you call for funds from the Madad Fund to be used in early recovery projects in Syria, knowing that Belgium is part of the governing body of that fund? Belgium can therefore have a contribution to make to the spending of this money. At the moment, this is not happening or very little, but the funds from that European fund are allowed to finance activities in Syria itself. Finally, will you make more efforts to work for a political transition under UN mediation? Do you see possibilities here for a greater Belgian role if, as it looks like, our country is elected to the Security Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u44	Mr De Vriendt, first of all I would like to reiterate that I consider the place and role of Syrian civil society, both at the moment in the conflict and in the post-conflict, to be very democratically important. That political support is expressed in regular contact with myself and my service with this civil society. For example, there will still be contact with the opposition in Brussels over the next few weeks. In addition, my services were very closely involved in organising the meeting of civil society in the Egmont Palace in the margins of the Brussels II conference at the end of April. As regards the financing of civil society, Belgium first examines the possibility of providing a new contribution to the Madad Fund from the budget line Corporate Building. However, this decision has not yet been formalised. As you know, Belgium has already given EUR 3 million to this fund. A direct funding of Syrian civil society from the budget line is not planned. In addition, the Peacebuilding Service investigates various proposals, including from Syrian civil society, to support projects in Syria. I have recently received my approval, including support for the strengthening of the independent Syrian media. Other projects are still being investigated by my services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u45	Given the current situation in Syria, it is not yet appropriate to do reconstruction in the country. This does not mean that we should not work on the resilience of the Syrians who have fled their country so that they can eventually return to their country and work on the reconstruction of Syria. That is why Belgium also supports the EU's Madad Fund as it is the primary focus of this Fund. The financing of projects in Syria by the Madad Fund remains problematic. There is a high risk that these projects will not reach their goal and that financial resources will be used badly. So, in line with the EU position, Belgium believes that it is too early to finance projects in Syria. However, within the Madad Fund board, we advocate the preparation of possible projects that can be implemented as soon as circumstances permit. A political solution to the conflict in Syria remains an absolute priority for Belgium. I defend this position not only within the European Union but also in the bilateral contacts I have with the various parties, including UN Envoy Staffan de Mistura. It goes without saying that the conflict in Syria, which has a prominent place on the UN Security Council's agenda, will also be a priority for our country during any Belgian membership. Belgium wants to continue working not only on a political solution under UN mediation but also on other aspects of the conflict, such as the humanitarian situation and the fight against impunity, especially in the case of the use of chemical weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u46	Minister, I am convinced that our country as a member of the Security Council can and will play an important role in the political transition. I hope that we can discuss our country's priorities as a member of the Security Council. Our country can do much more for Syrian civil society. If we list what we do and what other countries do, there is much more possible. 11.11.11 has made an evaluation for 2017, but has also issued reports that clearly show a number of differences between our country and the Netherlands: The Netherlands gives more support to civil society than our country. You say that we are doing this through the Madad Fund, where an additional effort is planned from the Social Fund budget. However, other countries do so directly, and we should also consider that slope. At least more is needed. If we look at other European countries, that is realistic. Early recoveryin Syria itself is of course difficult, that nuance I have also built into the question. However, if we are to draw up concrete criteria, it may be appropriate to use the European Madad Fund's budgets for early recovery, purely the basic infrastructure of the Syrian population under conditions of difficulty. I would ask you to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u47	Minister, on 24 December 2017, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on further investigation into the death of Dag Hammarskjöld. That resolution calls on the Member States to designate a high, independent official to conduct a detailed examination in the archives of the security services of available information and to transmit the results. Mr Minister, my question dates from 6 April. Is it true that the government has decided to entrust the Committee I with this task? That mandate of the Committee I should be defined. Has that happened yet? Why did it have to be defined? Is it intended that, contrary to the resolution, certain archives will not be made available to the Committee I? I don't think this is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u48	Deputy Prime Minister, this is my fourth oral question to you on this subject. There's no need to remember the retroacts. For the past three years, I have asked a dozen more questions to the Ministers responsible for Justice and Defence. Obviously, this work pays off. As a democrat, we can all rejoice. On the Saturday before 17 April, the date of my question, the daily newspaper De Morgen announced that, in response to the decision of the UN General Assembly to retain Judge Othman as Chief Investigator on this delicate case, you and your colleagues in the Department of Justice and Defence decided to propose to the government that Committee R be the authority to conduct in-depth research in the classified archives of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Defence, State Security and other forums where crucial information about this disaster could be found. If you confirm this information to me, it would be a clear step forward because, so far, you will admit, all the initiatives taken by the current government in this area were to close the doors to this dark period of our colonial history rather than to open them. In particular, I am thinking of this recent law allowing the Sûreté to place its classified archives in the Kingdom General Archives only after fifty years. This vote in the House took place in the middle of the UN investigation. Minister, what is the status of the procedure for designating the R Committee as a key body in this case? Could you give us a detailed timetable for the possible implementation of this decision? Can you provide me with an exhaustive description of the relevant archival institutions that the R Committee will be authorized to visit. How long will the R Committee be entrusted with this task? Will the R Committee be able to contact Judge Othman and his teams directly? In the order of mission that the government will give to the R Committee, will it be able to suggest declassifications of documents? Finally, will the House of Representatives, the host of the R Committee, be able to hear the R Committee on this subject once its investigation is completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u49	Mr President, I would like once again and without doubt to confirm that Belgium will continue to cooperate fully with the United Nations and the eminent person responsible for monitoring this dossier. We have responded positively to Mr. Othman's request to appoint a senior independent official who will have access to the archives of the intelligence services, both civilian and military. It was necessary to make an informed choice with regard to the person who will conduct an investigation in the relevant archives, referred to by Mr Othman, eminent person in charge of the UN investigation into the circumstances of the death of Dag Hammarskjöld. As I have already indicated, the designated person will have to have the required level of security clearance to access the archives of the security and intelligence services. The law is very strict in that respect. Such appointment could therefore not be lightly made. Belgium wishes to continue its effective cooperation with Mr Othman in compliance with Belgian legislation. It is only through compliance with the conditions imposed by law that we can best guarantee the quality of the information that is potentially available to the United Nations. In this context, my colleagues the Ministers of Justice and Defence have agreed that the Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services (Committee R), Mr. Guy Rapaille, should be designated as the senior official responsible for conducting research in the Belgian archives concerning the circumstances of the tragic death of Dag Hammarskjöld and those accompanying him. Mr Rapaille has the security clearance required by Belgian law to access the archives concerned. However, with regard to access to classified archives of the Department of Defense, and in so far as these archives do not fall within the legal scope of the competence of the R Committee, Mr. Rapaille will receive the assistance of Professor Kris Quanten, military lecturer and head of the Military History Chair of the Royal Military School. Mr Othman has been notified of this decision by my administration and has contact data from Mr Othman. Rape and Quanten. Needless to say, we want to guarantee the independence of action and management necessary for these people to meet the expectations of the United Nations and Mr. Othman. We will remain attentive to the progress of the important task entrusted to MM. Rape and Quanten.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hope that not only by searching in Belgium but also elsewhere, the mystery of the death of Dag Hammarskjöld can finally be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u51	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Like you, I have every confidence in the R Committee and, in particular, in the personality of its chairman. He is the best person for this work in Belgium. If we have to appeal to Mr Rapaille, who has security clearances, it is because these archives, which are over 57 years old, crucial to understanding these events, are classified when they should not be. Indeed, a document over the age of 57 no longer has any reason to be classified. That is the meaning of a bill that we have tabled, Mr. Van Hecke and I, several weeks ago, which we are going to propose to colleagues. Essential data for researchers, for citizens to understand their colonial past, but also, here, for the United Nations, must be accessible. An event that took place also a long time ago must be able to be assumed by making these documents available. We will be content at this stage with the work of the R Committee. In any event, Belgium is still far from assuming its colonial past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u52	Mrs Grovonius being ill is excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u53	Minister, I would like to pick up where we left it last Thursday after the debate in plenary, namely when we voted in the Human Rights Council last Friday. Firstly, I noted that four European countries abstained from that vote. Is it possible to give us an overview of the responses of the 28 Member States to the vote in the Human Rights Council? How united is the European Union? Secondly, I have noted that the Israeli Government has invited our ambassador, Mr Belle. Can we get the following information? What did the Israelis say there? What were we accused of? Finally, and more generally, is there any indication of the willingness or unwillingness of the Israeli Government to cooperate in the United Nations investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u54	I agree with the statements made by the various groups last Thursday. There was nevertheless a consensus across all the differences that were raised at the time that the European Union should adopt a united stance in order to be credible in the matter. Allow me to quote myself: 'I think we need to make Europe a credible bridge in the negotiations. Allow me to do a reality check, in brackets, because speaking with one voice from Europe will require the necessary efforts." That was also apparent the next day when the UN Human Rights Council met in a special session. During the debate, Belgium expressed a balanced position, but then a vote followed and a resolution was tabled and adopted by 29 votes in favour, 2 against and 14 abstentions. We can read the content of that resolution on the web site, so I can cycle over it. In itself, we welcome a proper and balanced examination of events, as I said in the Chamber last Thursday. But in the explanation of vote, the representative of Belgium, also on behalf of Slovenia and Spain, stated that the proposed text lacked a reference to Israel's right to defend its own borders, obviously using proportionate force. However, the absence of such a reference was not a reason for our representative to vote against. I believe that five EU Member States have abstained. The German Member, also on behalf of Croatia and Slovakia, stated that "Germany scheduled that the draft resolution did not reflect the role of non-State actors in Gaza and it would thus abstain from voting." From Britain's statement we note: "The United Kingdom could not support the resolution that was partial and unbalanced." Hungary also expressed a similar view. Finally, three EU Member States voted in favour of the resolution, namely Belgium, Slovenia and Spain, and five abstained, namely Germany, Hungary, Croatia, Slovakia and the United Kingdom. The EU did not, therefore, demonstrate the consensus requested by many speakers on Thursday and thus confirmed my fear that it would not become evident to speak with a single European voice. Minister, what efforts have been made to achieve the desired consensus among the EU Member States? What is your response to the claim by five other EU Member States that the resolution has not been sufficiently balanced, which is why they abstained? What guarantees do you have that the investigation will be conducted in a balanced manner, also in view of the comments made by our representatives on the absence of any reference in the resolution to the Israeli right to protect their own borders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u55	Contrary to the previous speaker, the motivation of the resolution is less important to me than its aim, namely to arrive as soon as possible at a clear and impartial international investigation into the incidents in Gaza and the disproportionate violence of the Israeli army. The position our country has taken is particularly good. Your statements so far and the Prime Minister's statements on this matter, as well as the fact that we have summoned the Israeli Ambassador to our country to discuss this issue, are particularly good. Of course, European unity is better, but if that is not possible, it should not cripple us to make an effort to enforce international law and to ensure respect for human rights. There's a tit for tat going on. Our ambassador has also been summoned by the Israeli government. How do you respond to that? What message did he get? Can you outline the different positions in the European Union? What are the possibilities at present for a joint response from the European Union? The international response to Israeli action has so far been particularly fragmentary and lacks joint strength. Belgium has done what is necessary. You cannot deny, Minister, that there are apparently no signs that Israeli policy will change, in accordance with international law and human rights. Is more pressure, including economic pressure, not necessary? Is Belgium prepared to take steps, possibly together with some other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u56	I share the fundamental concern of many members of the committee about the human rights situation in Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories. Following the dramatic event in Gaza on 14 May, I condemned violence in my response and immediately called for an independent international investigation. This reaction was supported by the work in Geneva where Belgium supported the convening of a special session of the Human Rights Council last Friday. At that meeting, the Council adopted a resolution calling for the establishment of an independent commission of inquiry to investigate the violations committed on 14 May. Belgium also voted in favour of this resolution and co-sponsored it. The vote for the establishment of an international committee of inquiry should be seen in the context of the broader Belgian commitment to the fight against impunity, which maintains ultimate human rights violations. Although not all of our text proposals were included in the resolution, these omissions were no reason for our country to vote in favour of the central issue at the end of the negotiation process, namely the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Our voting behaviour indicates that we were deeply alarmed by the sharp escalation of violence on Monday 14 May in Gaza, where about 60 Palestinians were killed and hundreds injured. Spain and Slovenia, also members of the Human Rights Council, joined Belgium in its position. The other five member States of the European Union that are members of the Human Rights Council abstained. Other members of the European Union, who are not members of the Human Rights Council, have co-sponsored the resolution. The Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs has summoned the Ambassador of Belgium. I have no comment on the form. That is a normal way of diplomacy when one wants to send a message to the authorities of a country. Last week we used the same channel with the Israeli ambassador in Brussels. It offered the Belgian ambassador the opportunity to explain the Belgian position. Belgium fully recognises Israel's right to protect its borders, but expects Israel to respect its international obligations, in particular the right to peaceful protest and the principle of proportionality in the use of force in defending its legitimate security interests. At the same time, our country underlines that Hamas and those who led the protests in Gaza have a responsibility to avoid provocations and to ensure that the protests remain strictly non-violent. In dat verband verklaarde de speciale VN-gezant voor het Midden-Oosten, de heer Mladenov, vorige week dat Hamas "which controls Gaza must not use the protest as cover to attempt to place bombs at the fence and create provocations. Its operatives must not hide among the demonstrators and risk the lives of civilians". It is precisely because we are faced with the media war surrounding the incident that it is important that an independent and impartial body conducts the investigation. It is in the interest of Israel to cooperate with the committee, because it will allow certain allegations to be identified or refuted. Under no circumstances will Belgium anticipate the facts and await the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry. As with previous Committees of Inquiry set up by the Human Rights Council, the Chairman of the Human Rights Council assisted by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights will appoint the members of the Commission. On the question of the formal recognition of Palestine, as a reminder, Belgium has already voted in favour of the admission of Palestine as a non-member observer of the United Nations in 2012 and I refer to what I mentioned in plenary last week. As far as possible, Belgium is still trying to reach a common European position on the issue of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We must mobilise our partners and encourage Europe to take a more active role in the image of its considerable interests and contributions in the region. Belgium is and remains in favour of a multilateral European approach to the crises and problems of our time, despite the differences of opinion between the actors of the international community and between the Member States of the European Union. In this context, we are working to ensure respect for international law and humanitarian law and respect for human rights. We do not intend to take unilateral steps in the current circumstances. Only if a consensus is reached in a larger group of partner countries can we take effective and meaningful action. We have defined the objective we want to achieve: the two-state solution. But we can never do it alone. The main actors of the conflict and their support must be closely involved. I am thinking not only of the United States, Russia, the European Union, but also of the key countries in the region, which must take more responsibility and overcome their differences. As you know, Belgium strongly disapproves of unilateral acts by certain actors in the region that undermine the two-State solution. Therefore, we must refrain from falling into this way of thinking about the issue as if it were a zero-sum game. I repeat, unilaterally recognizing the State of Palestine has no meaning at this stage and will not have any concrete effect. Such recognition must take place within the framework of the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement. To achieve this, it is essential to relaunch the dialogue. Of course, we have had a great deal of discussion on the text that was put to the vote in Geneva. I personally had the opportunity to discuss this with colleagues and representatives of several states at a meeting in Denmark within the framework of the Council of Europe. The aim is to arrive at a common position. I regret that there have been a number of abstentions, but you will have noted that the bulk of the votes have been in favour of a positive vote or abstention or even a co-sponsorship for countries not members of the Human Rights Council. It is the responsibility of the Council to conduct this investigation. I should like to recall that on the occasion of my contact here in Brussels with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, the Secretary-General has also expressed to me his willingness to move forward with this committee of inquiry, which he has confirmed publicly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u57	Mr Minister, thank you very much for your detailed answer. Now we're going to go back to the lines. Know that mine will be brief, because it is already 16.32 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u58	Mr President, I fully agree with the Minister on the need for a committee of inquiry. I am pleased that our government has fully supported this. However, the difference of opinion remains. I believe that, following the unilateral decision of the United States, a unilateral decision by the European Union, if not Belgium, should also be taken in order to save the two-state solution. I believe that we should recognise Palestine in order to create two facts on the ground, namely the courageous decision of the European Union alongside the unilateral decision of the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u59	Minister, I can only repeat that we support an independent international investigation. You were talking about a media war. I talked about a propaganda war last week. I think we mean the same thing. I am also pleased that you say that you do not want to anticipate the outcome of that investigation. There may be some indications here and there that this was the case. You have made that clear. I do not know whether a unilateral decision by the United States, which is to be regretted, can be settled by a reverse unilateral decision. On the contrary, I think you are right to point out that this will only escalate the situation further. I note that the need for a united EU position is in any case defended less by the opposition than last week. I believe that this weakens the European Union's weight. It would have been interesting if the European Union had been able to express itself with a voice. However, the objections of five European Member States were not followed by everyone. This points out once again that the European Union cannot be seen as a voice in important international cases, and that harms our credibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-23-54-commissie-ic904x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The decision of the UN Human Rights Council to launch an independent investigation is not insignificant. This is an important step and it is good that our country has contributed to it. Of course Israel has the right to defend its territory and its right to exist, but at the same time we expect Israel to respect its international commitments. The latter does not happen in manifesto, in order to prove not only the incidents in Gaza. It goes much further back in time, it is also about settlement policy, the collective punishment that the Palestinian people must face, and the detention policy towards children. The question is what we can do about it. I do not expect a united, important European step to increase pressure on Israel. However, I am convinced that we can take further measures with a number of countries. You yourself spoke of a larger group of partner countries in your reply. You did not explicitly say that Belgium is now gathering such a larger group of partner countries. We would ask you to take a number of initiatives along these lines. Once again, European paralysis must not lead to nothing in the file. We played our part at the level of the UN Human Rights Council. I ask you to continue to play that role.
