ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u1	Madam President, Minister, according to a Eurostat study published on 14 December last year, one in six European Union companies sold on the web in 2016. These web sales include both sales to individual consumers and to other businesses. The share of EU companies with web sales increased between 2010 and 2014, from 12% to around 16% – according to the latest figures available – but has since remained relatively stable. Of these companies, 97 % sold within their own country in 2016, while only 44 % sold to customers in other EU Member States. Mr Minister, what are the main obstacles to cross-border e-commerce in the European Union encountered by Belgian companies? I know that this problem is of particular concern to you. Which partner countries do our companies face greater difficulties or opportunities in their electronic trade? Is there an agenda within the European Union to create the right conditions for more cross-border trade? Where is Belgium among its European Union partners in electronic trade? Indeed, I understand that the Netherlands and Germany are ahead of Belgium in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u2	Mr Flahaux, some of the obstacles encountered by Belgian companies wishing to sell online in another EU country are not specific to Belgium but concern the majority of European countries. These include, but are not limited to, high costs of delivery or return of products, difficulties related to claims settlements and disputes or costs related to adapting labelling to the requirements of the destination market. Other obstacles are more specific to Belgium. I will mention here the most important ones. Labour legislation makes it difficult to use night work, but the rules governing night and Sunday work in the e-commerce sector have been relaxed since 1 January 2018. The temporary assignment of staff to meet peak demands is made difficult under current labour legislation. In addition, the labour costs applied in Belgium are relatively high compared to neighbouring countries. Moreover, as highlighted in the IBPT e-commerce opinion, a whole series of obstacles are linked to the characteristics of the Belgian economy. Unfortunately, we do not have information on the difficulties or facilities that Belgian e-commerce companies would encounter in specific markets in Europe. As part of its strategy for a single digital market (the DSM strategy), the European Commission has adopted several legislative proposals to stimulate cross-border e-commerce for European citizens and businesses. It adopted two proposals for directives to harmonise the rules governing digital contracts in the context of cross-border electronic commerce, a regulation to strengthen cooperation between national authorities in cross-border infringements of consumer protection legislation, a regulation on the service of cross-border parcel deliveries, and legislative initiatives to reduce the administrative burden on businesses due to the disparity in VAT regimes. A VAT reform for e-commerce was also adopted at the end of 2017. Belgium is very well positioned in Europe with regard to electronic transactions. In terms of turnover shares, it is second in Europe of 28, behind Ireland in 2016. This is mainly due to B to B transactions, notably via Electronic Data Interchange, which consist of computer-to-computer exchanges of commercial documents and, to a lesser extent, via Internet exchanges. On the other hand, with regard to the B to C trade, Belgium is at the bottom of the pack and lies behind its neighbours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u3	Minister, thank you for your full answer. In this area, it would also be important, in conjunction with your colleague from the Economy and the regional ministers, to take action to raise awareness of the possibilities of electronic commerce. I'm thinking of small traders who don't have the technology of big boxes. My fear – which is at the same time a finding – is that more and more transactions will be made through this process and that small traders will be victims of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u4	Mr Minister, I note that the Members of this committee have become accustomed to no longer coming to ask their questions! It's getting a little tiring! I therefore note the absence of Mrs de Coster-Bauchau for her question No 22291. Questions Nos 22311 and 22312 by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u5	Minister, zero rating is a regrettable exception to the principle of net neutrality. It allows operators, under certain conditions, not to count in the volumes of data downloaded per month, those from a particular website or application. Thus Proximus and Base offer or have offered the data downloaded on applications such as Facebook or YouTube, without any consideration from these net giants. In the IBPT's annual report on monitoring net neutrality in Belgium, we learn that Proximus has launched a pilot project called My Apps Space. This allows companies to "lead" mobile data. More specifically, a company pays Proximus and, in exchange, the data downloaded by Proximus customers on the application of this company will not be recorded in the monthly data to which the customer is entitled in his subscription. At the time of publication of its report, on 30 April 2017, the IBPT had not yet given its opinion on this pilot project, which it continued to "supervise". But an interpretation of the European regulation protecting net neutrality which would allow such a practice would undermine the balance which the regulation intends to protect. Not only would it allow an operator to differentiate content according to direct commercial interests and not for traffic management reasons, but it would also seriously harm the level playing field of companies active on the net. Indeed, Belgian small and medium-sized enterprises to whom this pilot project is addressed should pay for a service which is offered free of charge by Proximus to multinationals. Minister, do you believe that such a project is compatible with the principle of net neutrality? Do you consider that it endangers the level playing field to the detriment of companies that are not giants of the net? Since 30 April, has the IBPT clarified its position on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u6	Madam President, Minister, the United States wants to repeal net neutrality, a founding principle of the Internet. Following a vote, the Federal Communications Commission put an end, on 14 December 2017 in the United States, to the guarantee of equal treatment of data flows by operators. The advocates of net neutrality rightly fear that this means differentiated Internet access for Internet users, both in terms of cost and speed as well as content, with a great risk for freedom of expression. Because net neutrality allows small players to grow up with equal access to giants, without having to pay exorbitant fees to access high-performance "pipes". Abandoning the principle of net neutrality is therefore tantamount to giving inordinate influence to access providers. For them, the principle of net neutrality is an obstacle to profit. In Belgium, the IBPT says that there is no real threat. However, Dominique Leroy, the CEO of Proximus, expressed the idea that limits should be placed on net neutrality, saying that it is not normal for large players to use a great deal of bandwidth for video and 4k - video with very high definition - without being charged for these services, which, in her view, obliges her to increase rates for consumers. Mr Minister, what are the reactions, Belgian and European, to this dangerous measure for freedom of expression? What is your reaction to the ambitions to challenge this principle in Belgium, particularly on the part of Proximus and Dominique Leroy? All the more so as we know that Proximus is a fan of zero rating, but she may have reconsidered her position in the meantime; I ask you the question. In your answer to one of my questions on the subject, in March 2016, you said you shared my concerns about net neutrality. So, as the minister responsible for Proximus, will you call Mrs Leroy to order?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the principle of net neutrality. It must lead to a good user experience for customers and equal opportunities for those who wish to offer services via the Internet. A European Regulation on Net Neutrality was adopted on 25 November 2015. I supported him at the European Council. Zero rating is not prohibited by European legislation in all cases. When the amount of data included in the internet subscription is exhausted, it is prohibited to allow zero rating to continue, while other applications can no longer be viewed or slowed down. Moreover, when the package is not yet exhausted, regulators, such as the IBPT in Belgium, must analyse, according to European rules, whether the rights of end-users to consult or to provide information and applications of their choice are not understood. This may be the case, in particular where insufficient data is proposed in a tariff plan including zero rating of certain applications or a single application. The IBPT informs me that a Belgian developer of a chat app recently complained that the zero rating of the favorite app in Proximus' Tuttimus, Mobilus and Minimus offers prevented it from competing, for example, WhatsApp. At the end of January 2017, the IBPT published an analysis report on Proximus' offers. The IBPT concluded that user rights were not compromised given the information obtained, the figures and the sufficient amount of data included in Proximus's offers, in order to freely access content on the Internet and these applications. The My Apps Space pilot project was stopped on 21 November 2017 on the basis of a commercial decision by Proximus. Prior to that, the IBPT had actually requested data from Proximus and had reviewed the case internally. However, as this practice was terminated, the evaluation was not completed. As regards the situation in the United States, the decision of the US authorities has no impact on users in Belgium, since anyone offering an Internet access service in Belgium is required to comply with the European Regulation. Belgian companies operating in the United States can feel an impact if telecom operators do not respect the principle of net neutrality. Their online services can be slowed down if they do not agree to pay a surcharge. As far as Belgian and European policy are concerned, there is no question of abrogating, as in the United States, the principle of net neutrality as enshrined in the European Regulation. As far as I am concerned, the right of access to the Internet, open without discrimination or intervention, must remain enshrined in European Union law. The objective of ensuring that a wide range of content and services is available will not be achieved by placing a burden on Internet content and services providers. I therefore do not agree with Mrs Leroy's idea, and I have communicated it to the press. To stress the importance of net neutrality to Proximus, on behalf of Belgian consumers and internet actors, does not pose a problem to me. The digital economy and its users have the most to lose from questioning the principle of net neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u8	Minister, thank you. I think today, the sector, including Proximus and Base, is testing how far it can go in the context of net neutrality. There is zero rating; I do not agree with the analysis of the IBPT. Then this application was stopped. In this case, the IBPT should have completed its assessment. This was at least one IBPT opinion on a practice that may be replicated by others. Stop it because the application is stopped, that sounds ridiculous to me. I will ask the committee to write to the IBPT to continue its opinion, since the Institute now depends on Parliament and not on you, Minister. It makes no sense to terminate an evaluation. It is necessary to repeat things firmly every time. I know that the IBPT has never been firm with regard to net neutrality and has never supported it; fortunately Parliament has done so. It is necessary to be firm in relation to all the test balloons launched by the telecom operators; they do so because the neutrality of the net disturbs them. As you said, this is important for the development of this sector, for start-ups, for SMEs and for freedom of expression on the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u9	Minister, thank you. Business reasons are not the best reasons to stop an initiative. A ruling on questions of principle would have been a better thing. In any case, I note with satisfaction that you do not agree with Mrs Leroy's decision. Zero rating is a gateway to initiatives against net neutrality. We must continue to be vigilant in the face of this attempt by the operators. I'll look at your answers to the different rested head points.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u10	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns postal services and, in particular, the bpost distribution office in Vielsalm. Vielsalm's factors have just been informed that they will soon have to take up their service in Saint-Vith, where a new bpost logistics center will be built, on industrial zoning. The move is expected to take place in the spring of 2020. As part of the reorganisation of the post, a land would, in fact, be acquired in order to build the mail center of Amel. This centre would bring together the distribution offices of Vielsalm, Saint-Vith, Stavelot, Malmedy, Bullange and Waimes, a total of 93 tours. 30 to 40 factors would be affected by this move. While tours are increasingly heavy and therefore painful, the additional number of kilometres to travel is not going to make things right for these factors. Indeed, there will be more kilometres to travel between home and workplace, but also more kilometres to distribute newspapers and mail; about 20 kilometres to separate the two localities. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, can you give me more details on the schedule for this move? How many factors are involved? Do you think the factors can be as effective with longer journey times like this? Do you confirm that Vielsalm's bpost counters will be kept open?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u11	Madame, in fact, bpost informs us that there is indeed a project in progress for the construction of a new mail center in Saint-Vith. In this building, bpost will gather the distributors and employees of the following six distribution offices; Vielsalm, Bullange, Saint-Vith, Waimes, Malmedy and Stavelot. These include 95 distribution, 15 administrative and maintenance services. About 180 people are affected by this reorganization. As for the kilometres to travel to the tour routes, they can actually increase the length of time, but these journey times will naturally be integrated into the service. For some employees, there will be more kilometres to travel between home and workplace; for others, less. Such travel shall be compensated in proportion to the distance. Work will begin later this year. Bpost hopes to be able to complete all moves by 2020. The implementation of the Saint-Vith e-mail center is part of the implementation of the strategic bpost plan, which provides for the consolidation of more than 400 distribution offices and 61 e-mail centres throughout the country. The counter service is not involved. Indeed, in accordance with the management contract, bpost guarantees a post office in each municipality of the country. Each of the municipalities involved in this reorganization will therefore continue to have a post office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u12	I thank the Minister for this information. I'll let those who have asked me know, and maybe I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u13	Questions No 22899 by Mrs Ben Hamou and No 22375 by Mr Calomne are postponed. Question No 22575 by Mr Foret is deleted. I'm sick of people who don't excuse their absence. They will receive an email from the secretariat. All of Ms Jadin's questions are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u14	Madam President, Minister, this is again a bpost issue in Libramont this time. Located next to the Libramont train station, the former post office was to close in order to move, on Friday 12 January, to its new premises at the commercial zoning of the Alienau in Recogne, a neighbouring village. However, the opening of the new post office could not take place as scheduled on 12 January due to a technical problem. Indeed, it appears that bpost would not have asked Proximus to come make the new connections and connections for telephone and internet connections. The move is therefore postponed to a later date. Moreover, it is up to me that the choice of the Alienau in Recogne is problematic because the new site does not have the same visibility and access facilities for customers. The current post office near the station is very convenient for people who want to walk to the office. Minister, do you confirm this information? When is the move specifically planned? Do we know more today? Could you consider the creation of a post office in the vicinity of the railway station of Libramont, which is very popular and is located in the centre of the province of Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u15	Madam President, bpost informs us that the post office in Libramont has been operational since January 19. The opening was scheduled for January 12, but due to a human error, the ICT connection was not functional in time. The new location was chosen by bpost as it is located in a commercial area, close to many other stores and service providers. However, this commercial zoning is located outside the city centre and therefore more difficult to reach for the elderly or without means of transport. Therefore, bpost initiated the procedure for the installation of a post point in the center of Libramont.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u16	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. I am pleased to hear that a post point will be installed in Libramont, but in the future. This is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u17	The procedure has been initiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u18	How long will it take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u19	A while.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u20	This is less precise, but thanks anyway!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u21	Minister, the invoices of telecom operators to consumers must contain a series of particulars, including the reference to the tariff comparison site, the information necessary to allow Easy Switch, the warning of future tariff changes and the information to the consumer that he can, at that time, change operator without charge and without any delay. If these statements appear on the invoice, they do not appear in the notice of payment, when sent electronically. At Proximus, this opinion contains the only information necessary for the customer to make a bank payment, so that it is not useful to consult the actual invoice. Moreover, this invoice is not attached to the payment notice by e-mail but downloadable on the operator's website after creating a personal account. In such a case, it is easy to imagine that the consumer does not consult his bill and therefore he is never aware of the information which prompts him to seek the most attractive offer on the market. In other words, the efforts of the public authorities to make the best possible use of competition are being nullified here. From there to think that it would be a strategy of the historical operator to circumvent the law, there is a step that I will refrain from taking but everyone will judge. This is in the context of a constant rise in the price of fixed telecommunications products, which places Belgium among the countries where subscriptions are the most expensive in Europe. Minister, do you believe that such a practice respects the spirit of consumer protection laws and regulations? Do other operators act in the same way? Has the IBPT already addressed this issue? Are you considering taking action?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u22	Ms Lalieux, regardless of the mode of sending the invoices in question, the legislator considered that it was the invoice itself that was best able to warn the consumer about the Easy switch number, the details of its consumption and the possibility of comparing offers on the website www.meilleurtarif.be. As regards the information on a tariff change envisaged by the operator, Article 108(2) of the Telecoms Act does not specify the form of the warning. This is therefore not necessarily indicated on an invoice. To our knowledge, other operators operate like Proximus. If the user has opted for an electronic billing method, the invoice, which must be sent in full in one way or another, shall contain the information prescribed by the legislation. The IBPT is likely to monitor and punish operators who do not comply with the legislation under its control. Invoicing regulations affect different sectors of economic activity. Amendments to electronic communications legislation could not be considered without taking the problem as a whole and including other sectors of the economy where companies would have adopted the same practice. As it stands, we believe that the invoice, in any form, is the best document to ensure the objectives of comparison and the migration referred to above.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u23	Mr Minister, thank you for having been the basis of consumer protection at the telecom level for years. I think there is a hijacking of the spirit of the law that Parliament wants. When the customer has the transfer, he does not pay attention if you have to register on a site to have access to the invoice. That's why I wanted to have the opt-out rather than the opt-in. The majority did not follow me on this. I really think this is a misappropriation of the law. It is necessary either to remind all operators officially of the order, or to change the law. Telecom operators are different from other operators. There is a specific law on what must be entered on the invoice. It may be necessary to specify that the invoice must be attached to the Internet transfer. It could be put in front and the internet transfer behind. Currently, six clicks are required to access his bill. That's not right! We'll see how we can work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u24	Clients are increasingly oriented towards the customer area, where they find their invoices and payments. We are developing, with the IBPT, an automatic link to transfer data from the customer area to www.meilleurtarif.be, which then calculates on the basis of actual use to see if there is a better rate, all operators combined. We are working on a broader arrangement than what currently exists. It is true that the current situation is not ideal because there is a mix of different billing methods.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u25	Question No 23284 by Mr Devin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u26	Minister, on February 12, you met with the CEO of the VeChain Foundation, Sunny Lu, to discuss the opportunities that the blockchain represents for Belgium's digital initiatives. Minister, what opportunities does the blockchain represent for Belgium's digital initiatives, and in particular the government's initiatives? Do you see any potential for electronic voting? Could you share with us an account of this meeting? It's pretty big. As a result of this, you have said that there is still a need for standardisation and regulation of the blockchain, which must take place at European level. You said that Belgium could play a leadership role. What are you going to do to give Belgium this role?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u27	Mrs Poncelet, the meeting with the CEO of VeChain had been requested by the management of this company and was intended to discuss the possible role of blockchain technology in the Belgian public administration. Blockchain remains a promising medium, a promising technology, but not an objective in itself. As we know, blockchain is an interesting technology in case we are confronted with the protection of confidential information and the simplification of administrative processes, often in a context without a central database. Rather than looking at the processes already digitized, we are looking for areas where digitisation still needs to be launched. Sufficient challenges will arise: enthusiasm for blockchain initiatives, estimation of their impact on the organisation, and finally digitizing small pilot projects for existing administrative processes and simplifying them as much as possible. Finding the right framework for this is not so obvious. Blockchain technology certainly has the potential to be used in elections. International examples illustrate this. Thus the blockchain can guarantee that a vote is validated and secure during elections. In the United States, there is a platform called Follow My Vote. It is based on the principle that transparency in elections protects democracy. Possible discussions on the legality of a vote would be eliminated. Attempts to influence elections and electoral fraud would become technically impossible. The person who votes does so in privacy via a token on the blockchain, or even on followmyvote.com. An e-voting project on the blockchain was launched, once again in Estonia on the e-Residency platform. Given the experience we have gained in the field of electronic voting, an experiment that uses blockchain to gather the results of a vote can be considered. To be clear, I think that the vote must be in a central place. E-voting at home still presents dangers of influence. When I point it out to our Estonian friends, they say it's not true and add that if you get influenced at home, you can run into other problems in the event of a vote. That is true, but it does not mean that no one has problems. Regardless of the technology used, voting must be done in a place where one can control that the person is voting independently. In my contacts with the press, I indicated the importance of the meeting. I am prepared to provide additional information on what has been discussed. VeChain believes that the 2018-2019 period will have to be devoted to the standardization of certain elements of the blockchain in order for the technology to be used on a larger scale. VeChain also has a great interest in authentication technologies in use in Belgium; what we do, for example, with It's me. You know that the law has been amended to allow private operators to do digital authentication. This could be interesting to combine with blockchain technology. The current problem with this technology is that the operators involved in these transactions remain anonymous. It would be interesting to think about the possibility of a test case. There was no question of whether VeChain would have any role to play in digitisation projects in Belgium. To answer your last question, Belgium already has strong authentication solutions. The added value of the possible use of blockchain in this dispute must be examined in the laboratory. There is still a lot of work to be done on standardisation and blockchain regulation. This must be done at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u28	Minister, thank you for these answers. I will bounce back on the international vote. Estonia would already apply it from the home of each elector. I am leaving the working group set up at the level of the Committee on Infrastructure. We wanted to meet with a representative from Estonia to explain the implementation of this digital reform and the awareness of the citizens. In any case, I thank you for your answer, even if it is very technical. So I'll take the time to analyze it and come and ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u29	Everyone in the European Union sings the praises of Estonia. I admit that it has been very successful, but Belgium too. Local advertising is probably more assertive than at home. Moreover, it is a micro-country, whose neighbour is huge and is considered unfriendly by Estonians. That seems correct to me. There is a strong desire to prove that a small country can survive. To this end, Estonians use digital technology. It is always commendable to go to other countries to see what is being done there – and that is what I have done here. However, we are as effective as Estonians in several areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u30	Mr Minister, we therefore lack a sense of communication and chauvinism!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u31	They sell better than us, to say so!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u32	Minister, as Minister for Digital Agenda, you are, of course, faced with a very reliable and qualitative digital service for citizens. An essential condition is data integrity and the quality of our data. I am talking not only about the data relating to our own business processes, but also about the personal data that we manage as a government. The integrity of data is essential. That's an end-to-end story. This concerns not only the application itself, but also, of course, the physical access to data and the security of data centres. In private, that's just as true. There one uses audit and certification by external organisations to demonstrate the quality of data centres to customers. Firstly, the government manages several data centres. Just think of the internal databases of the FPS Finance, Smalls, ex-Fedict and Chancery. Which internal and external data centres can submit a certificate, for example the IS027001 certificate for information security? Which one isn't? Are there concrete action plans to bring everyone to the same level? Secondly, do you use the same standards and information security requirements for external suppliers in your computerisation policy as for in-house suppliers such as Smalls and others? What standards and certifications do you use for this? Can you guarantee that they achieve the same level of information security? I expect an unequivocal yes to this, otherwise we will have a problem. Thirdly, in addition to information security, redundancy of data is also very important. This is important to prevent data loss and to be able to remain operational permanently. It is an essential part of information security and business continuity. Can you guarantee that the IT applications of the federal administrations are hosted in different data centres at a sufficiently large distance from each other, which are therefore not located in the same risk zone? We have seen today the report on the safety perimeter in nuclear disasters. That may seem a bit exaggerated to me, but there is also a certain distance in private in relation to data centres in order to be able to speak of any redundancy. I assume this is also the case with the government. Finally, which data centres can submit the ISO14001 certificate for environmental management? That, too, seems to me to be quite important to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u33	Mr Dedecker, a few exceptions are not all too obvious: the federal data centres are not ISO/IEC 27001 certified. However, the information security policy of most institutions is inspired by the ISO 27000X series of international standards. Consequently, protection measures are implemented according to the identified risks. For example, the FPD data centres are not ISO/IEC 27001 certified, but the KSZ policy that follows the FPD is inspired by it. Almost all external data centres do have certification, as many of their customers rely on it. The same levels of information security are guaranteed, both internally and externally. The minimum requirement is the policy of the KSZ. In addition, additional protection measures may be imposed according to the identified risks. External services should be in line with their own policies. If necessary, these are imposed in the specifications in the BSM, via Smalls or the contract with the service provider. Systems with high availability requirements are implemented with redundant set-up through synchronous or asynchronous replication of data across two physically separated data centers. Finally, only a few data centres and buildings currently have an ISO 14001 or EMAS certificate. Despite the lack of certification, investments are, of course, made, within the budgetary constraints, to improve the environmental performance of buildings and data centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which is somewhat strange to me. As far as the last part is concerned, it seems clear to me that we are trying to achieve the best possible level of environmental efficiency in the budgetary context. When it comes to safety, however, it seems to me that we should not make any concessions, that we should not get rid of it by saying that we are inspired by a certain certification or standard. If we want citizens to have confidence in the government, it is important that we can demonstrate this with certificates. I would like to call on you to pay the necessary attention to this and to ensure that we can effectively demonstrate to our citizens that we offer quality services. If not, there is a serious problem with regard to public confidence in the government. This also applies to companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u35	Madam President, Minister, you have recently made an exit in the media during which you explained that you want to introduce, from March onwards, compulsory compensation in the form of money for people who have experienced long-term breakdowns with the operator Proximus. I would therefore like to look back on your remarks by putting to you another problem which I have already had the opportunity to defend in this committee, namely the areas of our territory whose internet service is far too slow to the point that its use to carry out various tasks becomes impossible. Indeed, I believe that there is a real problem when, for the same offer paid at the same price, the internet service provided for a citizen living in a place X is not similar to that in a place Y. This is ultimately a form of discrimination. Minister, do you think that Proximus customers who do not have a satisfactory internet connection to the proposed offer could claim a form of compensation? If so, what would it be? Could it be a reduction in the price of their subscription?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u36	Mr. Delannois, Proximus continues to invest in the development of its network in order to best serve its customers and to make progress in the coverage of its broadband network. In the so-called "white" areas, Proximus has tested and started to deploy new technologies such as the Tessares solution for combining fixed and mobile networks or the ROP microwave solution which is a street cabin served by microwave beams instead of optical fibers. Notwithstanding the technology deployed, the speed of a fixed internet connection may vary depending on a number of elements, including, depending on the distance between customers, network equipment, internal wiring, etc. At the conclusion of the contract, customers can check the speed they are likely to benefit from. This information is available via a tool on the Proximus website (www.proximus.be/speedinternet). In addition, Proximus communicates factors that may influence speed in individual confirmation letters sent to new customers. In particular in white areas, customers are invited to choose the product most suitable for their technical situation. For example, a cheaper Internet Start offers lower speeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u37	Minister, thank you. I might have expected another answer, but I hear you're relying on new technologies. I can assure you that, in some villages in my area, not all inhabitants receive the service they are entitled to expect. On the one hand, you give a bonus to people who are already privileged but who, for a particular reason, have not received the service expected; on the other hand, you do not offer any solutions to people who, throughout the year, encounter these problems. I hope you think about their situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u38	Minister, at the end of December, the Antwerp company Parcify was completely bought by bpost who already owned 50% of its capital. This company organizes the delivery of parcels via geolocation. According to the company, the couriers are 99% of the students who are employed as individuals in a collaborative economy system. Bpost already had a collaborative economy platform (bringr), about which questions had been asked last year. This platform puts in contact with individual traders and delivery agents on the same day of the order. Currently, bpost is studying the fusion between brindgr and Parcify. There was already a deep integration between the two companies: a common platform, a pooling of teams, the maintenance of the only CEO of Parcify. In addition, the federal accreditation dedicated to the collaborative economy was withdrawn at bringr and transferred to Parcify on October 1, 2017. Last year, you replied in committee that bringr would not result in job losses from traditional factors. Can you still guarantee that there will be no reduction in quality and sustainable jobs as a result of an increase in this type of jobs in the collaborative economy? When is the formal merger between the two platforms planned? Will Bpost insist on social protection for the couriers of its new subsidiary? Parcify pays its couriers on time while truncated does it in the race. What bpost model will it impose after the merger? How will the transfer of the federal accreditation dedicated to the collaborative economy be produced? Is this legally feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u39	Since the beginning of 2018, Parcify has become a 100% bpost subsidiary and its head office is in Antwerp. It goes without saying that this subsidiary, like all the others belonging to bpost, contributes to the realization of the group's strategy. The Parcify collaborative platform now focuses on the application linking a sender, a recipient and a delivery person for the delivery of a specific property. Geolocation, the application allowing a customer to be informed of the arrival of a package in a repository and then the place of delivery will no longer be possible. The platform is currently available in more than 300 municipalities for delivery across the country. It is expected that the application will be available in all municipalities by the end of 2018. The test of home delivery using smart locks was concluded at the end of December 2017. Bpost does not provide information on the results of this test because of its confidential nature. The remaining part of my answer was written in Dutch, since one of these combined questions was submitted by Mr Geerts. Parcify has been recognised as a collaborative platform and fully respects the regulatory framework in relation to the collaborative economy. As regards couriers, the platform provides for two statutes under which couriers may operate, i.e. as self-employed or private. They shall be paid for by contract. The fee shall be calculated on the basis of the distance to be travelled and the volume of the goods to be transported. All information about this fee is available before the courier accepts the order. Couriers are not obliged to accept an assignment. Since early 2018, no missions have been carried out by students through a temporary agency. For your information, the activities of bringr were fully integrated into Parcify. The sharing platform is additional and does not replace the distribution network of bpost. There is no transfer of jobs from bpost to the sharing platforms. On the contrary, the growth of e-commerce has created 450 additional jobs in the last year at bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u40	Minister, thank you. I note that there is no transfer of personnel or tasks within bpost. However, questions can be raised about the working conditions and remuneration of staff on such platforms. That will be the subject of another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u41	Minister, since 2008, Scarlet has been a subsidiary of Proximus that provides Internet, telephone and digital television access at a lower cost. It is understandable, therefore, that Scarlet offers fewer digital channels than its parent company, Proximus. However, a company owned by the State is entitled to expect it to offer all the channels in which Belgian public institutions are involved, from close to or by far. That's why I want to share with you my astonishment that a channel like Arte is not available to Scarlet's customers. All the more so since Arte offers a cultural and European programme whose quality is very little equal in the world, without any commercial interruption. I make it clear that there is legitimate doubt that the addition of Arte to the channels already proposed by Scarlet would have an unreasonable economic impact on the company. Therefore, Minister, how does Proximus justify the choice not to offer Scarlet subscribers the Arte channel? Do you not consider that Scarlet, a subsidiary of a public undertaking, must also offer quality European public and cultural content, especially if this is not an unreasonable cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u42	Mrs Lalieux, it is important for the Proximus Group to be able to define the content of its offer in all economic rationality. Scarlet, Proximus' no-frills entity, defines its TV offer in the best way to meet the quality-price requirements expected by its customers. Scarlet offers its subscribers an offer containing a limited number of 30 channels of public interest, commercial and multiple genres, allowing various features to its customers, at prices lower than those of Proximus. The choice not to include Arte in Scarlet's TV offer was seen, along with many other channels, as a differentiating element between the two TV offers. You will easily understand that cost information is confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u43	Minister, thank you. I find it a pity that the levelling down and the fact that a public company does not support production, moreover financed by Belgium and Europe. One can only deplore this choice which does not play the cultural exception. The Arte channel is still one of the European cultural guidelines; all this is a shame!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u44	In the absence of Mr Vanden Burre, his question No 24080 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u45	Minister, last week the press told us that bpost had sent a letter to its suppliers offering to pay it 2% of the amount invoiced last year via a credit note. Practice can be surprising. Is Bpost not taking advantage of its strong position to put pressure on its suppliers for possible renewal of contracts? According to some suppliers, this would appear to be blackmail, although this practice would be common in the larger business community. Your colleague, the Minister of Economy, to whom I also asked a question, considers this practice unacceptable when you consider it to be a good business management. Minister, what is the government's position on this practice? This practice seems to favour large enterprises at the expense of SMEs. To what extent can it be considered not to be the result of an abuse of a dominant position? How does bpost justify this request? What has decided bpost to do this for the first time? How much does it expect to recover by sending this mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u46	Madam President, Minister, on March 2, the daily De Tijd revealed that bpost had sent a message to its suppliers with a particular request to retroactively pay 2% of the amount invoiced via a credit note, an obligation to maintain good relations with the company. In her message, bpost says she wants to work with the best suppliers. The message included the exact amount for each supplier concerned and a payment reference. Minister Peeters described this initiative as "a scandalous abuse of power", while you, for your part, saw it as a sound and economical form of management, "goed en zuinig beheer". You think that there is no abuse of power, that it is a common practice, etc., which also says bpost. As a first step, you didn't see any use in meeting the management about it. Then, apparently, you decided to meet with the bpost leaders for clarification. Minister, what is the total amount requested by bpost from its suppliers? When is your meeting with bpost management scheduled? What are you going to ask him? Even if you have already given an answer, do you feel that this is a legitimate practice for a public company? Is it normal to use its dominant position to demand such refunds retroactively?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u47	Madam President, first of all, I would like to stress that I do not wish to intervene in the operational management of bpost. I have not done so in recent years and will not do so now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u48	Minister, I do not think any question has been asked in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u49	The question of Mr. Van Hees was written in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u50	Well done, Mr. Van Hees! You submit your question in Dutch and then ask it in French. Is this permitted by the Regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u51	Don't worry, Madam President, I will answer in both languages!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u52	There's no problem. I am simply surprised at the way in which we proceed. Anyway, Mr Van Hees, I invite you to ask your questions in your native language.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u53	The party of Mr. Van Hees is a unitary party, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u54	I invite you to continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u55	Madam President, I'm starting over. I would therefore like to stress once again that I do not wish to intervene in the operational management of bpost. I haven't done that in the past few years, and I won't do that now. Every well-managed company keeps its costs under maximum control and renegotiates prices and conditions at regular intervals. That's how it works in a family. Nobody wants to pay too much. People compare prices and choose the cheapest. It would be truly surprising if a company like bpost did not do so; indeed, it would have aroused criticism in a commission like this. In a large company, price negotiations are conducted at the level of the procurement department and costs are systematically and structurally compressed. The practical way in which companies operate varies. I am not going to comment today on whether this e-mail bpost campaign was the best way to proceed, but it is, in my view, not the essential element. What is he? It is a question of whether the supplier is free to accept or not to make an effort. This is clearly the case here. It is also the content of my message: we have the right to negotiate the best prices, but not to pressure suppliers inappropriately. Some suppliers have already communicated to bpost that they do not wish to accede to this request. Nor is the contractual relationship with suppliers affected. Suppliers who refuse can also continue to provide the company in the future. Freedom to conduct trade negotiations is essential for the smooth functioning of the economy. Care must be taken, by reducing this freedom, not to make Belgian companies take advantage of a competitive handicap which would lead to job losses. If bpost adopted a dominant position under competition law, there would be a problem. As a buyer, bpost does not, however, take such a position on any market. For example, bpost buys toilet paper. Are they dominant in the purchase of toilet paper? I don't think so. Bpost buys cars. There, too, they are not dominant. They buy office equipment and many other things. In these markets, which are generally European or global, bpost is often only a small actor. It is therefore not in a position to influence market prices and much less to determine them. In other areas, such as postal sorting machines, there are two suppliers in Europe. And that's more the case. The dominance situation is sometimes not so easy to determine. Of course, there can be a stronger and weaker party in a commercial relationship. A small company that relies on a large company for a large part of its turnover can be a weaker party. However, this does not necessarily have to be the case. If that smaller company offers a high quality at a competitive and competitive price, it will feel comfortable with the idea that bpost will not find another and better supplier and will not make any additional efforts. A large car manufacturer who feels that, for example by changing market conditions, bpost could obtain better conditions elsewhere, will be prepared to make an effort. Nor am I convinced that a weak party that is professional and has a high cost structure deserves state protection. In a free market there is freedom of commercial negotiation. It is also not so easy for the government to know which company in a commercial relationship is the weak or the strong party. Weak and strong is not always equal to small and large. If there is abuse of power, it is up to the competition authorities to intervene. Legislation for large companies, tailored to consumers, does not seem to me to be a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u56	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is true that, with regard to abuse of dominant position, it is sufficient for undertakings which feel injured to lodge a complaint with the competition authorities, which will determine whether or not they are initiating proceedings for abuse of dominant position. But admit that this practice is a little special. It really feels like big companies are talking to each other and creating the market today. That's the danger. We still have the chance to have a Belgian public company, we should try to ensure that it respects the concepts of social rights, environmental rights, sustainable development and ethics towards Belgian suppliers. I therefore find the way in which they act today a little unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u57	Minister, first of all, you did not answer about the amount or the fact that you were going to have an interview with the bpost management.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u58	I meet bpost management almost every month or every two months. The amount is confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u59	You did say that. All right. I know your position: you do not want to interfere in the management of bpost. There is no shared understanding of a minister's role with respect to companies that are still partially public. You even say it would be strange if bpost didn't. Even if it's legal, I think it's practices, which I wouldn't call mafia, but in any case very questionable in terms of ethics and the relationship that is established with suppliers. You say the supplier is free. I recognize here your liberal ideology. It's kind of the freedom of the fox in the henhouse. Everyone is free to do what he wants. What's weird is that a contract is fixed and all of a sudden, you go back to the terms of it by imposing something by pressure. It must be made clear: there is, in one way or another, pressure. I also note the difference of views within the government, since Minister Peeters considers it to be an abuse of power. That is the reply I wanted to make to your answer, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u60	Minister, we have recently learned that it is very easy to hack the bpost electronic system to transmit delivery preferences. Just use a fraudulent email address in combination with a victim's name and address to steal his or her package. The testimony of the person who found this defect and tried to report it to the company is quite remarkable. The person concerned, a Nico Cool from Termonde, tried to contact the helpdesk dozens of times. He went to Termonde's post office. He's been repackaged every time. Finally, he had to go through the press, through Het Laatste Nieuws, to pass the information on February 22. A few days later, on 3 March, he reported in the same newspaper that he had still not been contacted by bpost. In the meantime, it has been reported that there have already been some 30 reports of possible fraud since the tool was launched in October. Minister, why did bpost not deal with this problem for five months, from October to February? Has the tool been developed by the internal bpost IT department or by an external service? How do you explain the failure of the bpost computer service to respond to these complaints? Is there any connection with the outsourcing of IT services in India, about which I asked you last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u61	Madam President, the answer is in Dutch, because Mr. Van Hees had introduced the question into that language.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u62	I note that we always indicate that the answer can be given in French. Maybe the communication doesn't pass?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u63	If the question has been filed in Dutch, it will be answered in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u64	I want to translate, but there are people who do it better than I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u65	Madam President, Bpost says that since the launch of the Webtool, no complaints about possible abuse have been received. The reports in the press were about the first recorded incident. So it's not true that reports have been received since the launch. However, after the press reports, the customer service received a number of questions, which did not reveal any new cases of fraud. Contrary to what is claimed in the demand, immediate action was taken and additional security was built in. At 17:00 the services of bpost were alerted and at 21:00 the necessary steps had been taken, so that such fraud could no longer be prevented. The project is led by the ICT department of bpost. The realization was partly done by our own department and partly by outsourcing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic834x.u66	We are facing two versions. It is difficult to take a position. This information is published in the press, but you say that no complaints have been filed or hacking problems detected. Questions can be asked about outsourcing of information technology services. The service we are interested in is clearly a mixed, home and external computer service at the same time. Unfortunately, the questions remain, following your answer to the question asked.
