ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you. Welcome to the Prime Minister who is here to answer a number of questions and interplays. The first question is for Mr Calvo on citizen involvement in the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u3	I'm sorry I didn't notice you. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u4	Mr President, with regard to the organisation of work, I see that three questions are being asked about the death of toddler Mawda. It's very topical and there are a lot of questions about that. I would therefore propose that a topical debate be held in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u5	You may indeed ask. It is my authority but I will immediately give it to the media immediately. I have just informed the media that even if the questions were not put in time to deal with today, I asked the Prime Minister to take these questions with me. Even if it happened at 11:00 p.m. In the meantime, I have heard from other Members who have not tabled a question that they wish to take the floor. I therefore propose that a topical debate be linked to this so that other parties can join either the question or the reply to the question. We will then have a wider debate. I will, however, monitor the use of time to ensure that we do not engage in debate for too long and do not waste too much time on those who had tabled a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u6	Mr President, could we start with this topical debate? I think the news justifies it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u7	No, we will follow the order set out in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u8	Mr President, first of all, the topical and urgent debate could have been put first for me, but I see you shaking no, as no other fellow Members are calling for it. Mr Prime Minister, my question dates back some time ago. My group and I are always very much looking forward to the State of the Union and the declaration of government. I think that this is an important moment, not only for Parliament but for all the countrymen. I think that we should make this even more of a democratic highlight and a start to a social and political debate. Whoever can inspire you is the fresh South African President Cyril Ramaphosa. There is also an annual declaration of government, albeit at a different time. During his recent appointment, he organized a whole platform around his government statement. All South Africans were invited to share their priorities for that important presidential speech through a platform. In addition, interaction between citizens and the executive was also possible on important societal and political priorities. I believe that a similar initiative would also be possible in our country. I think that at the beginning of the parliamentary year we can do more than we do today. I am a fan of politics, of civic participation, of meeting between politicians and citizens on social issues and challenges. I believe that this can be done on the basis of the State of the Union. In fact, you need to look less closely than your South African colleague. The office is not quite comparable. You are not President, but Prime Minister, but the South African President has used a Belgian platform, Citizenlab, to set that up. So you don't have to go so far as to make such a thing possible. Of course, I do not want to interfere with the concrete allocation of such a platform, but I do think it can inspire us. Prime Minister, you may already be looking forward to the State of the Union for the coming year. Are you prepared to turn this into a moment of civic participation? Are you prepared to involve Parliament in this? We are ready to think about this together. I just wanted to get a grip on your willingness to do something about it. After all, it is not only Parliament's State of the Union, but also your executive power and your prime minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u9	Democracy is, in my view, a permanent challenge. In our current system, this certainly requires a mixed approach, based on the principle of representation through election choice and the role of Members of Parliament. Mr Calvo, your role and the role of the other Members of Parliament is crucial. I also believe that there should be room for direct democracy, allowing citizens not only to express their opinion during elections. In reply to your precise question, I note that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber are the responsibility of the Chamber. It is therefore, I believe, the responsibility of the Court to decide how the work is organized, including with the State of the Union. The government and I are always prepared to consult or engage in dialogue through the Conference of Presidents. At first, the State of the Union is a political momentum for a debate and a confrontation of ideas in Parliament between majority and opposition. It is an important moment to make clear the choices for the future and the opinions on them. There is also a great deal of attention and an important role for the press. I do not intend to give a definitive answer here. Rather, I believe that such discussions should take place in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, your answer is, quite frankly, somewhat formalistic. It is also unnecessarily formalistic, because the Rules of Procedure do not prevent such an initiative. In South Africa there is also an initiative by the President himself, who has been inspired by such a platform before the start, before the publication and before bringing forward his State of the Union. It is a pity that you do not seize the opportunity with both hands. It would be just a way to talk to each other through different forms of expression and meet each other. I agree with you that there are different forms of expression. There is representation in democracy, among other things, and there is the role of the media. I am convinced that it is just as important to reconcile these different forms of expression and to allow each other to meet. That could be done at the State of the Union of our Prime Minister. However, the glass is half full. Most good ideas are rarely accepted from the first time. I shall therefore continue with the idea in the Conference of Presidents. I hope to find an ally in your representative in the Conference of Presidents. After all, it is a huge gift for you to make your ideas more known. Especially at a time when the dash in the government is being questioned, it may not be insignificant. It is above all a gift for our parliamentary democracy and our democracy tout court. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament 23724 by Mrs Lalieux will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u12	Mr Crusnière is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, the European Commission launched a proposal on the European Union's multiannual budget for the period 2021-2027 a few weeks ago. This was necessary because the Brexit has reduced one Member State and reduced its spending by EUR 13 billion. So this has to be taken care of somehow. The European Commission has proposed the following. On the one hand, it wants to make a number of savings, including in the CAP and the Structural Funds. On the other hand, it proposes a number of new revenues, including a tax on non-recyclable plastic. In the case of customs duties, the deduction for the Member States would also be reduced from 20% to 10%. For our country, this would amount to a quarter of a billion euros. This, of course, also has a number of positive consequences. After all, a number of choices have been made in the areas of security, defence, the fight against illegal immigration and innovation. They also want to invest a lot more in the Erasmus+ exchange programme. They also want to increase the number of border guards. In addition, the Commission proposes a mechanism that would penalise an EU Member State financially if the rule of law were put under pressure in that country. That's the so-called rule-of-law test. Sanctions could be imposed if the rule of law comes under pressure. I would have liked to ask you a number of questions about that proposal from the European Commission. Firstly, what is our country's position on the negotiations on that Multiannual Financial Framework? Secondly, will Belgium support this proposal to link European subsidies to the rule of law? If not, why not? After all, this is very close to our Belgian vision of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. Thirdly, is it an option for you to introduce a tax on non-recyclable plastic? Or would you prefer a ban on that? Fourthly, what is your attitude to the reduction from 20% to 10%? One region has already said that it does not agree. Finally, you were given a speech in the European Parliament. You have advocated less tax competition between Member States and a common approach to company profits. Does this also automatically mean that you agree with the proposal put forward by the European Commission on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission indeed proposed its draft budget on 2 May 2018. This does not mean the end, but it means the start of long negotiations. As you know, all sectoral regulations on the different policies will be published in the first half of June. Given the size of the expected proposal, its analysis will take several weeks. As I was able to say in the European Parliament on 3 May, it is not so much about the amount of expenditure, but about how we spend the money. In general, we need to regulate expenditure better. The same applies to Belgium, certainly at European level. We must emphasise the principle of European added value. As far as financing is concerned, we will not accept any additional efforts that would jeopardise our economic revival measures. We must apply the same rigour to the European budget as to the Commission's control of our national budget. As far as expenditure is concerned, we are set up with the new priorities proposed in the financial framework. A forward-looking policy remains a priority for us. Research and development, Erasmus. We will also defend a reformed and consolidated CAP and cohesion policy that protects our farmers and provides them with decent living conditions. With regard to the linking of European funding to compliance with the criteria of a rule of law, we welcome the fact that the Commission has included in its proposal an idea that we have been defending for a long time. With regard to alternative ways of financing, such as new own resources, the Commission has made new proposals. These proposals are now being examined. In any case, care must be taken not to impose unnecessary new taxes on citizens which would reduce their purchasing power. With regard to the reduction of the collection rights from 20% to 10%, the Commission's proposal is not acceptable to me. Our commitment to Europe must not justify an excessive contribution. Finally, we are in favour of fair taxation and a step towards better harmonisation in the field of taxation. An important step can be achieved with the GAFA taxes. We are trying to play a strong role in this respect, together with the Minister for Finance, with a view to European solutions. Especially at fiscal level, this will remain an important permanent challenge. I would just like to stress that it is necessary at Belgian level to hold a permanent consultation with the Länder. We are doing this in order to defend a common position at European level. There are important efforts in this perspective and I am committed to continuing to work with the Länder in this area. A more political remark is that we must also take into account the potential effects and consequences of the Brexit on the basis of the results of the negotiations. These negotiations are expected to take steps after the summer. We will therefore continue to follow the two negotiations. The financial negotiations are very important for our future at European level. There are also potential effects in Belgium for certain economic sectors. In parallel, we need to look at the concrete consequences of the Brexit on the basis of the different options that are still on the table. They can also have important effects on our country in the context of these negotiations which are so important for the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I understand that this text is the start of the discussion. It is, of course, a very important discussion because it concerns the future of the European Union. Investing in the European Union is actually also investing in our own future. We invest in our country but also in the future of many young people. For these reasons, we must pay full attention to this discussion. So I look forward to the steps you will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament 24471 by Mr Van Peteghem has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 24649 by Mr Van Hees has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament 24929 by Mr Hedebouw has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u18	Prime Minister, I come to you with this F-16 dossier because there are two fundamental principles at stake in a parliamentary democracy. First principle is that unelected civil servants or senior military personnel should not decide on military purchases. The second principle is that Parliament is entitled to correct information. I have great doubts, Prime Minister, that your government has received all the correct information. I remember you saying in the Chamber that you want all the information before you decide. I'll ask my associate to deliver all the documents in my possession to you, because I'm not sure you got all that information from your Secretary of Defense. Until last week, Prime Minister, your Minister for Defence told falsehoods inside and outside this Parliament. I have put a few together, I quote: "Our F-16s are made for 8 000 hours of flight time, according to the manufacturer. You want me to ignore that? In 2023, they were worn out." Or, in an answer to a question from the chairman of the Defence Committee and myself, I quote: "There are no studies on the extension of the F-16." A third quote, made by the Minister of Defense on Radio 1: "With the hand on the heart; I don't know anything about an F-16 report." Last week, the Minister in this House, I quote, said: 'Flying six years longer brings with it 271 million euros'. And last week: "If we proceed to such a fatigue measurement of all aircraft, those recorders must be ordered and installed on all aircraft." Prime Minister, we now know that there are no less than three studies by Lockheed Martin that show that our F-16s can be deployed longer. Furthermore, on 18 September 2017, the Minister received an e-mail from the Ministry of Defense that our F-16s can fly through perfectly longer and he was even recommended to suspend the procedure. The IKW note of November 2015 is also very important. That note, on which your government has based its decision, states that a longer employability of six to seven years would cost EUR 2.2 billion. Last week, the Minister brought a figure here and that figure had already fallen to 271 million euros in additional costs. And even that amount is not right, because to reach that amount, the Minister assumes that the operating costs of an F-16 are identical to those of an F-35, while the Pentagon and the U.S. Government Accountability Office say that they are at least three to four times higher for an F-35. With regard to those recorders, which were supposedly still to be purchased, in previous hearings, both General Debaene and Colonel Letten said that we already have them and that they should not be ordered. Prime Minister, this story dates from before the period of your presidency, because with the documents I deliver to you there is an e-mail dated 5 November 2012. I would like to stress that at that time, politics had not yet taken any decision on replacement or renewal. You can confirm that, because you were president of a government party at the time. What does that e-mail that's in your file show? On 5 November 2012, with the knowledge of Claude Van de Voorde, at that time Air Force Chief, and of Jos Vanschoenwinkel, the current advisor to the N-VA working group, a Belgian military took part in an information meeting, which intended to defend, protect or advocate the F-35, even before the political decision was taken. It's getting stronger, Prime Minister. In the file that I am delivering to you, you will find, on the date of November 12th, a document in which the direction of how the army will come to the purchase of the F-35 will be written. It says that they should be included in the coalition agreement in 2014. I'm gonna skip some information. It also states that the first half of 2018 should be signed. That direction is followed every month. Prime Minister, I suggest you take a good look at that document. There's a huge bias for the F-35 in it. With even going so far as to say that the F-35 is the cheapest option in 2012. On the other options, the Rafale and the Typhoon, comments are made which I think are highly questionable. I now come to the crucial note of 9 November 2015, on which your government supports itself. Prime Minister, you will see that there are 32 wrong informations in the file I've provided you with. I won't list all of them. I can't do that within the scope of my interplay, but I'll give you one example. It states that the funding to allow the F-16s to fly six or seven years longer would amount to 23.8 million per aircraft, representing 1.287 billion. Last week, the minister said 271 here. So your government has decided on the basis of false information. There is also information that we know of, because the military summit had delivered the future note to the Belgian army that, surprisingly enough, it was not included in the note of 9 November for the IKW. That information relates to the number of hours our aircraft have flown and provides for the possibility of examining an extension. That information has lingered between the Department of Defense and the IKW note you have been delivered. In the file you will find some strange things. If there is talk with Lockheed Martin about lifespan possibilities, then there will be a call from the Chief of the Air Force, Mr Vansina, who says on high feet: "He was even upset," about the fact that it was thought to investigate. That wasn't in the direction that was written by the Defense Department in 2012. So the Chief of Air Force felt it was necessary to intervene on their own until Lockheed. I also refer to an e-mail from Colonel Letten on 11 December 2017, which is also in your file, Prime Minister. Do what you like with it, so I translate that mail freely from English, "as long that nobody can think they fly above 8 000 flying hours." Lockheed may therefore conduct studies, as long as the result does not mean that there can be more than 8 000 hours, again because that did not fit in with the direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u19	Mr van der Maelen, you are still entitled to half a minute's speaking time. Can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u20	Mr President, I would like to talk about the audits before concluding. Prime Minister, the audits, the investigations that have been carried out are farce. I call for that investigation to be repeated. The investigation was not only contaminated by two interventions by the Minister of Defence himself during the audits, a first time to sign a statement and a second time to request all of Colonel X's e-mails, and we also faced the Minister of Defence last week with an email dated 18 September 2017, which did not appear in the investigations, for the simple reason that the investigators have no security clearance...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u21	Mr. Van der Maelen...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u22	...and so they can't go looking.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u23	Can you ask your questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u24	Mr President, I will conclude. Prime Minister, what you said in plenary a few months ago is on my hard drive. You have said that this dossier is so important that Parliament is entitled to all information and that it must be done in full transparency. Now, Prime Minister, I think I have made it clear to you with my survey that there are serious shortcomings in the information and in the cooperation of the Minister of Defence. I'd like to ask you three questions. Firstly, the research must be continued or re-examined, but this time by an institution, such as the Committee I, which does have a security clearance, so that researchers can also check the non-open channels of communication. We have already put forward one e-mail. It's my belief that there are still. Secondly, we have more questions. If we want to know the truth, we must be able to hear the soldiers who have been ordered to tell only one side of the story under an oath of loyalty and under the command of their superiors. Thirdly, Prime Minister, please do as in all the other countries I know, the Netherlands, Denmark, Canada, the United States, and the list is even longer, and let the Court of Auditors examine the figures of Defence and the Minister of Defence. Those figures are highly questionable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u25	Thank you, Mr Van der Maelen. I may have to cut some speaking time off from your reply later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u26	Mr President, I will be briefer because Mr. Van der Maelen has already made a retroact which it is pointless to repeat. Prime Minister, last week, as has just been said, we had an exchange of views with the Minister of Defence on the replacement of the F-16s and, of course, on the information that reports on a possible extension of their lifespan have been hidden in Parliament. New information appeared, as my colleague has just pointed out, that the Minister would have received e-mails in September 2017 regarding the possible extension of the F-16s and that, therefore, the status of the replacement procedure could be revised. Last week too, representatives of Florence Parly's cabinet, the French Minister of the Armed Forces, met with their Belgian counterparts in Mr Vandeput's cabinet to detail the French proposal and, according to the statements made by the minister's spokesman, it was at your request that this meeting took place. In view of the development of this issue at European level and the turnarounds in Belgium in the context of the replacement procedure, I would like to ask you a number of questions, Mr Prime Minister. Given the first information revealed, what follow-up are you going to give? Do you intend to shed light on these new emails and, if so, how? Were you or your firm aware of the existence of these emails? Do you maintain confidence in your Minister of Defence? Is the option of extending our current F-16s for six years, as presented today in committee, permanently abandoned by your government? What about the current procedure where only two candidates remain in the competition? Have you been able to read the detailed French proposal so that you can make an informed decision on it? Finally, when should a final decision be made by the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u27	Mr President, I also think I am brief. Prime Minister, on March 22, you said in plenary that you were going to ask for two audits on this whole matter - one internal and the other external. I would like to remind you that on 20 March, two days before your answers to our questions in plenary session, the press revealed the concealment of two reports, in any case vis-à-vis Parliament, and it seems to the minister as well. In his case, however, it is not clear whether he was informed or not. These reports indicated, apparently, that it was possible to extend the life of our fighter aircraft. This is an extremely important and even central issue for your Government, for Belgium, for our security and for our international credibility. Since then, the different versions have changed over time. I had asked that we could meet quickly in order to make all the clarity. We were told, "Not until April 18"! Then, in the middle of Easter holidays, leaks took place from what is ultimately not an audit but an "internal investigation" - it was re-qualified as such by National Defence. These files, originally, had been taken very seriously by the Minister of Defence, according to whom this was a major misappreciation of the military hierarchy, which had not shared them. In the end, this "internal investigation" says that these reports were of no interest or influence and that no fault was committed, that there was no responsibility to find, that it was very normal for the minister not to be informed and that the CHOD should not be informed either. Finally, nothing could change the decision of the Council of Ministers in November 2015. In the meantime, we had started auditions. We heard Colonel Decrop, the one who tried to alert the hierarchy about the fact that, perhaps, there was a possibility of extending Belgian aircraft while ensuring our safety, but also our current level of capability. He told us that it was even possible to save money without endangering that security. After the hearings, it became clear that we were trying to keep him away. Lockheed Martin was called in as a matter of urgency, who stated that the original studies were of no interest and that these aircraft could not be modernized today. Then, "crying on the cake", we heard the Minister of Defence who told us that these planes could be equipped with radars of the last generation when, until then, we had been told the opposite. We have also been told that we have the only F-16/Block 15 modernised; that is not true, since it is also the case in other countries. We lose our Latin, but above all our confidence in your Minister of Defence. It seems to me that today its credibility is at the lowest in this committee. Prime Minister, I ask you to take this case back. It's too serious and important. On the other hand, there is this French offer that was swept away with a back of the hand by your Minister of Defence while you intervened for his cabinet to receive the French officials. This offer of some 40 pages has been neglected again. I ask you to reconsider the F-16 issue in view of the particular political context in which we are. We have discussed this again with regard to the US Presidency, which raises a series of serious questions about the future of European security and our strategic autonomy. We need to reconsider this issue, about the loss of credibility, because the version of the F-16 extension opportunity has varied over time; the cost it would represent; and our operational capability. Do not make a hasty decision for the next NATO summit. What NATO is asking us for in view of the summit is to meet with capabilities; it is to show commitment, capacity, contribution; it is not to do anything. We must also check the position of the European Union. In fact, we do not know what his demands are in terms of capacity. Every time I asked your minister about the European Union's capacity defence needs, it was impossible for him to answer me. We need to have this answer, so that we know what Belgium needs to do. Belgium must obviously reinvest in defence. It must do so quickly, substantially, but also in a timely manner, politically, strategically and in terms of its military and aviation capabilities. I therefore ask you to take up this matter, not to make a hasty decision, and to ensure that we respond to these issues; that we abandon this procedure of the RfGP, which locks us in a choice that is contrary to our wishes, whether at the capacity level or at the strategic and political level. Take this file in hand so that we can truly respond to the issues we face. We cannot at the same time say that "we are in the cockpit of Europe" - an expression you like - and not take the opportunity of this dossier to make a timely decision. I ask you to take this matter seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u28	Mr President, I have an extremely detailed prepared answer, but I will try to respond in interaction with the questions that have been asked. Thank you, Mr van der Maelen, for the notes. I'll look at them carefully. It would have been easier if I had received the notes earlier, because that would have given me the opportunity to answer immediately. Next, I confirm that it is an important principle for me in a democracy that Parliament is well informed, with objective elements, to be able to take decisions after a debate with different democratic interpretations. Every week, with you, I have to establish that we are not spontaneously on the same page. However, that is democracy: there is our interpretation and sometimes our priorities and our analyses differ. On the basis of the following objective points, I will try to provide some answers. Firstly, with regard to the audit, I have committed myself to clarifying Lockheed-Martin's memos. The committee meetings offered the opportunity to clarify the nuance between an audit and an administrative inquiry. The difference between the audit and the administrative investigation is simply, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentarians of the majority and the opposition, the strict observance of the law and the royal decrees that organize the way in which the army can organize internal investigations, commonly called audits, even if stricto sensu that is not what this is about, or the reform of the Federal Audit Service the way in which this reform has taken place. That is the way things have been applied. As a result, these audits/administrative investigations resulted in a number of findings. I will not be too formal as Parliament's wish was to have access to this information as soon as possible. A date had been scheduled in the course of April. Finally, as soon as the government was in possession of the executive summaries of the evaluations, it considered that it was in line with what I had said in plenary to inform Parliament quickly, if not practically in real time. Indeed, as soon as we received the information, we communicated it to the latter. You will recall that consultation sessions on documents were held on Monday and Tuesday to allow parliamentarians to read the documents. It is your right, of course, that I respect, not to share the conclusions, to be critical of an audit, an administrative investigation. As far as I am concerned, at this stage, in any case, I take into account the objective results of this administrative inquiry. At the plenary session, after the revelations about Lockheed Martin's memos, I remember well the trouble sown in Parliament and perhaps even within the government. I simply note today that three fundamental questions were asked – who asked for the studies? Who was informed? Who received the results? – and that Parliament has had the opportunity, during many hours of committee work and hearings of various personalities, to shed light on these issues. The assessments you are challenging conclude that there is no deliberate strategy for senior officers not to inform the hierarchy. I would like to emphasise that I personally want to be very transparent with Parliament. Parliament is entitled to all information on this matter. We have also provided proof that we want to be transparent, with the many hearings, the details and the analyses. Everyone has also had the opportunity to express their views on the interpretations of the audit evaluation or the investigations. Here are now some elements concerning the background of these Lockheed Martin memos that have opened up a number of doubts. Of all the points that can be retained from hearings in Parliament, the content of which I have carefully studied, no one can dispute that these memos were solely about the structure of a part of the F-16s and did not refer to the other components of the aircraft. No one can dispute that, in these hearings, there is an opinion in favour of extending the lifespan and that the other opinions all seem to be at odds with the extension. Both military experts and representatives of manufacturers and the US Air Force believe that the operational relevance of the weapons system is already deteriorating and that extending the aircraft beyond 8,000 hours would be problematic. Finally, it is true that a long extension is retained by the United States, but it does not cover the Block-15 aircraft available to our air component. However, that is not exhaustive; it is just a few examples to show that we must try to make a nuanced analysis of the results, which I am trying to do. Mr Van der Maelen, last week you gave an important signal. You waved with an e-mail that you did not want to make available, but on which you expected information on the day. Well, I haven't been able to look at the documents thoroughly yet, but after a quick reading and a mistake of mine, I find that this e-mail is not in the file. This surprises me. It is difficult for the government to give a strong political response to an email from September 2017, without knowing who sent it, to whom it was sent or to which e-mail address and what its content is. In such circumstances, it is particularly difficult for a government and for a prime minister to be transparent vis-à-vis Parliament. Every week a Member of Parliament can ask me questions about an email in a particular file. However, this does not benefit a qualitative debate. I turn now to the fundamental questions raised by Mr Dallemagne and Mrs Fernandez Fernandez on the subject. I, for my part, remain totally consistent. First of all, we made the decision to initiate a procedure, not the decision to order a particular device for a particular amount. I accept, Mr Van der Maelen, the decision to set up a transparent, objective and competitive procedure. Thank you for your wise advice, you from a political party with a lot of experience in military command. We have also witnessed the tragic consequences for the country's image for a number of years. It is therefore with perfect good faith and with the best intention that the government has chosen – and this is not the case in all the countries of the world – to put in place a procedure that objective the criteria. That is the meaning of the RfGP procedure. I imagine that you do not suspect anyone in the Belgian government to have succeeded in convincing the French authorities not to introduce an offer within the framework of the RfGP deadline and procedure. The situation we are facing is not simple, I have never contested it. It is not simple since two tenders were submitted on time and in accordance with the RfGP procedure. In addition, we have received messages from the French authorities, which make a number of proposals. Together with the minister concerned and the whole government, we will continue, in the days and weeks ahead, to gather the various information on this subject: information on the RfGP procedure, for which officials will, in due course, have to give opinions to the government; information on the status of the proposal expressed by the French authorities; and information in relation to the other options. I carefully read everything that has been said and written, in particular to Parliament, on the possible extension of the F-16s. We will analyse all these elements again. In the next few weeks we will see whether we will be able to take decisions on this matter. It's not my habit to grab me or the government for timing. We will see how to act, on the basis of the information we will collect. That seems to me to be good governance, that seems to me to be common sense. I am somewhat surprised that, with the exception of Mr Dallemagne, no one in Parliament has spoken about geopolitics, about fundamental choices. I hear a lot of demagogy and populism about the means we must mobilize to finance our security. At the same time, Mr Van der Maelen, we cannot say that we do not support delegating our security to Americans – you do not like NATO much, we know that – and do not make a choice to assume our own capacity in Europe, to defend a geopolitical strategy, to defend our own interests. I have been attentive in recent weeks to the geopolitical transformation that we are facing. I know, like everyone here, that despite the efforts that have been made under this government, we are not the right students in NATO in terms of military capabilities and spending. Indeed, I am quite consistent and consistent. We are working very intensively to strengthen a European pillar within NATO. That is what the PESCO and concrete strategies, such as the drones, are intended for which Belgium has taken the initiative and leadership in order to be more operational at European level for our security in the framework of our NATO strategy in the future. This is a mixed and coherent approach. I am always prepared to share more information with Parliament, I ask that Parliament, like the government, show a sense of responsibility. It seems to me slight, as is the case today, to lay accusations in extremely serious cases. Last week, we were told that there was an e-mail, but they refused to tell us who wrote it and to which address the message was sent. Then, the government is asked to respond and justify itself in view of the seriousness of this email. However, I have still not obtained any information on the identity of the author and the subject matter of the e-mail. I am always willing to take steps to enlighten you, but I need a minimum of information to do so. Once again, I am prepared to work on this with the government and with Parliament, but on the basis of objective elements. And not on the basis of accusations which, at this stage and subject to the information available to me, do not seem very convincing to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u29	First of all, Prime Minister, I would like to make a painful observation. I have the impression that you are less demanding than a number of colleagues here in the committee that you were not informed by your Minister of Defence in 2016, 2017 and early 2018 about the fact that the extension is a real option, contrary to what was in the documents delivered to the government in 2015. Prime Minister, if you take peace that your Secretary of Defense is withholding crucial information from you in a billion-dollar file, I'll leave that on your behalf. However, as a democrat and a Member of Parliament, I do not accept that. I'm suing that. You may call that populism, you may call it what you want, but I think I'm doing no more than my damn duty here. I'm paid by the taxpayer to do my job. Part of my job is to check that everything goes correctly in important decisions such as the purchase of fighter planes. Secondly, as far as the audit is concerned, there are two possibilities. Either the auditors overlooked something, or the auditors did not have the opportunity to look into networks containing confidential or security-protected information. I want to take your word for it when you say you are in favour of transparency. However, if you want to prove that you are in favour of transparency, I will give you the following advice. Your file does not contain the mail, but it is known who it is addressed to, namely Claude Van de Voorde; it is also known who was in cc, namely Steven Vandeput. The date was September 18, 2017. If an organization like the Committee I or anyone else gets an opportunity to look, then everyone who sits here and everyone who follows the file outside will see if I'm talking out of my neck. Prime Minister, unfortunately, I don't talk out of it. Your Minister of Defence has not only informed Parliament, but also your government in time about an alternative slope in addition to buying a new and most expensive fighter plane. I speak very often about geostrategy, Prime Minister, and I would also like to speak. Yes, sp.a is in favour of a defence that is being developed in agreement with our EU partners. We have been for a long time and today more than ever. Unfortunately, unfortunately, I am saying that the foundations of the Atlantic Alliance are being rattled. I'm just saying this. If your government decides to buy the F-35, it means that, since the software of that plane, the source code, which remains the exclusive property of the United States, the defence of Belgium and of Europe depends on the goodwill of the United States. I am very happy to discuss geo-strategy with you or the Foreign Minister for a long time, because there is much to be said about it. I thought, Prime Minister, that you were also in favour of developing our defence in conjunction with our European partners. We have another foreign policy and security policy in the European Union, and in order to support it, we need an autonomous capacity. Buying the F-35 means we're permanently dependent on the United States. Please bear that in mind. I'm filing a motion of censure against the Secretary of Defense. If you, Prime Minister, take all that, I won't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u30	Prime Minister, I look forward to hearing you. In fact, unlike what Minister Vandeput said here last week, you consider that all options remain open, since you have made it clear that you are going to examine them. For his part, he had told us that he was confined to a procedure that included only two candidates who would have responded correctly. So, very sincerely, I thank you for that. It is not to have made a political and personal choice in the replacement of the aircraft that we condemn the Minister of Defence, but to have not delivered all the information to Parliament from the beginning of the procedure. I would like to take this as evidence of his presentation last week, in which he provided us with figures that we did not have, as well as information that we have been asking for for weeks, and which we have only received last week. At the same time, he informs us that the procedure is going on, that it will not change and that it will go to its end. That's not right! Similarly, it is not correct on his part to systematically increase that the opposition is not concerned about the safety of the pilots. That's not true! It is also wrong to argue that she does not feel engaged in Belgian defence. The long exchanges in which we have been involved over the last few weeks prove the opposite. In view of these elements, it is extremely difficult for us to work confidently with Minister Vandeput. That is why we support the motion tabled by Sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u31	Prime Minister, thank you for your explanations, to which I will make two or three comments. First of all, you are talking about transparency towards Parliament. However, it was necessary for the latter to be quite attentive and vigilant in demanding clarification so that this debate could take place, because – and my colleague has just stressed this – we should have been entitled to it two years ago. In my view, you should have been informed at the time of the November 2015 decision. These studies and discussions should have already been initiated. Secondly, with regard to the status of audits, I believe that the way in which Defence conducts an internal investigation will need to be reviewed. Frankly, the level is well below what we are entitled to expect in the search for truth. Indeed, it was much more a charge against a graduate than a real audit. More fundamentally, you indicated that you chose a certain procedure and did not make any decisions. We have to get out of this scenario. For the past two months, our colleagues at the MR have been suggesting and murmuring that we are in one procedure, although another is still possible. That's why I think we're wasting time. I also think that this procedure is not the right one. You spoke of an objective and transparent procedure. I remember the words of a finance inspector. He said that "when the price criterion is less than 50% in a tender and even less than 40%, it means that we do anything." In this case, that is 33%. There is not a single other defence market where the price criterion is so low. I'm quoting you from a Finance Inspector!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u32	Saying this is very shocking!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u33	It may be shocking, but it must be heard, Prime Minister! For months, I have heard you and your government say that this is the best procedure. Personally, I have doubts. I'm wondering. This is my right in particular in view of the price criterion in this invitation to tender. On the other hand, you recalled that in NATO we have a credibility problem, which has worsened. We were the last of the class. We are the only country where the budget for military expenditures has decreased by 0.4 per cent from its previous level. Our ambassador said so recently. We are in a very worrying situation vis-à-vis our allies. I believe that it is by having credible answers, not only within NATO but also within the framework of the European pillar – and you have reiterated the importance of having credibility at European level – that we can move forward. I therefore call for important strategic decisions to be taken. To put it clearly, the choice of the F-35, if it were to be that one, would be a political catastrophe in the current context. Doubts must be resolved quickly. It's a cheap plane. It is a plane that has never fought, but it is above all a plane of people who will keep the strategic grip on Europe and who, if they wish, will be able to keep our planes on the ground. In addition, all military research will continue to be concentrated in the United States. As a reminder, the European Union spends EUR 10 billion a year on defence research against EUR 70 billion for the Americans and EUR 30 billion for the Chinese. It is time for you to inject research and defence resources, because that is also the issue of the future of our security. For these reasons, Prime Minister, I would like to move a motion of recommendation so that you can take this case with you in line with the principles I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u34	The President: At the end of this discussion, the following motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of censure was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interviews of Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the Prime Minister's reply, expresses her confidence in the Minister of Defence." A motion of distrust was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen and Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the Prime Minister's response, withdraws his confidence in the Minister of Defence." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government - having regard to the serious loss of confidence with regard to the Minister of Defence, - having regard to the incomplete, lacunary and sometimes contradictory data on which the current procedure is based, - and in view of the important developments in the international political and strategic context: - to stop the ongoing RfGP procurement process, as it relies on incomplete, lacunary and sometimes conflicting data; as it is no longer adapted to the new geopolitical situation; and as it prevents Belgium from defending its strategic interests and opting for a common European defence and genuine strategic autonomy for the European Union; (i) to issue and launch a new purchasing procedure for fighter aircraft, based primarily on the pursuit of a European strategic partnership and restricting competition for the replacement of the F-16s to European state agencies; - to ensure that priority is given to the option of maximum industrial return in Belgium and Europe and that it facilitates the development of an integrated defence industry at European level; - take responsibility for the file on the replacement of the F-16s from the hands of the Minister of Defence (who has lost all credibility in this matter) and entrust them to the Prime Minister." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - in view of the serious loss of confidence in the Minister of Defence, - in view of the fragmented, truncated and sometimes contradictory data on which the current procedure is based, - and in the light of important developments in the international political and strategic context: - to stop the current "RfGP" procurement procedure, since it is based on piecemeal, truncated and sometimes contradictory information; since it is no longer suited to the new geopolitical situation; and because this procedure (by closing in a non-choice) prevents Belgium from defending its strategic interests in favour of a common European defence and genuine strategic autonomy for the European Union; - to open and relaunch a new procedure for the acquisition of combat aircraft, based primarily on the search for a European strategic partnership, by limiting competition to replace the F-16s only to European government agencies; - in this context, to ensure that priority is given to the option of maximising industrial returns in Belgium and Europe and speeding up the development of an integrated defence industry at European level; - to withdraw responsibility for replacing the F-16s to the Minister of Defence (who has lost all credibility on this issue) and to entrust it to the Prime Minister." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote, Mrs Katrin Jadin and Mr Richard Miller, Philippe Pivin, Luc Van Biesen and Vincent Van Peteghem. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote, Ms. Katrin Jadin and Messrs. Richard Miller, Philippe Pivin, Luc Van Biesen and Vincent Van Peteghem. The motions will be voted on later. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u35	Mr President, can the services confirm that one effort is sufficient in view of the fact that three motions have been tabled?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u37	In any case, we hope that the second-class theatre, which has been dragging on for two months, will stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u38	The debate on the questions and discussions in committee on this point is closed. Debates of the European Parliament The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Debates of the European Parliament 25183 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 25212 by Mr Crusnière was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, according to the former research director of Cambridge Analytica, the company would have, through its well-known digital manipulations, heavily influenced some recent election campaigns and thus the outcome of several elections. I am thinking of the referendum that led to Brexit, the American presidential election or the recent Italian parliamentary elections. Thanks to the serious flaws in Facebook's security protocols, Cambridge Analytica collected mass personal data from citizens in order to analyze, classify and exploit them. The UK company has thus carried out behavioural and political profiling of non-applicants for this profiling. This practice allowed, then, the establishment of targeting strategies in order to present to a "activable" public tailored fake news that could influence it in its electoral behaviour. In this way, the exponential spread of conspiracy theories, totally unfounded rumours, and even narrations built from all parts and often close to the theories of the extreme and xenophobic right has been rooted. Prime Minister, to give you an example, I was in Italy at the time of the elections and a rumor about a refugee who had eaten Italians spread; it had an exponential effect in the campaign that led to the appointment of one of your colleagues to the European Council. This incredible technique seeks to meet the buried expectations of voters in order to guide their political choices and those of their loved ones, who are also present on Facebook. However, according to the President of the British Parliamentary Committee on Digital Affairs, Damian Collins, the Russian interference in the referendum that led to Brexit lies precisely in the formation of a network of propagandists ignoring the targeting on Facebook and disseminating fake news from well-known Russian propaganda bodies, such as RT and Sputnik. Prime Minister, in view of the 2018 communal elections, and especially the 2019 general election, what are the preventive mechanisms put in place by the government to deal with the threat of digital interference, as observed in Great Britain, the United States and Italy? You must know that, as a first step, I asked this question to the Minister of the Interior who sent me back to you. According to Mr. Jambon, the Computer Crime Unit does not deal with this problem. You are in charge of the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium. That is why I am asking you this question. Has the CWB thus implemented measures to prevent the involuntary profiling of Belgian citizens by Cambridge Analytica or any other company? If so, could you detail them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u40	My colleague, this is indeed a subject that is at the crossroads of several responsibilities and on which I will try to clarify the roles of each other. Indeed, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) is competent to supervise, coordinate and ensure the implementation of the Belgian cybersecurity strategy. It must therefore also support its work on very strong cooperation, coordination, with other public actors and also with the private sector. Digital interference can manifest itself through actions directly against the cybersecurity of networks, but not only. These may also be phenomena of influence, such as those you mentioned, but in some cases they do not mean that necessarily illegal acts are committed, which is one of the major challenges for large European democracies. How do we protect our democracies from the use of the Internet and social networks to spread a certain amount of information that is not correct but not necessarily illegal? While actions of digital interference are nevertheless manifested by malicious actions, the incident is dealt with and the necessary steps must be taken to ensure, on the one hand, the protection of networks and, on the other hand, the identification and prosecution, in some cases, of the perpetrators by the federal police and the courts; this is the case with regard to the reactive criminal aspect, where there is reason to consider that criminal law must apply. For the preventive part, I have regularly answered questions in this House. Since its inception, the CWB has launched numerous awareness and prevention initiatives. Precautionary rules, awareness-raising initiatives are disseminated not only to small and medium-sized enterprises but also to large enterprises. There are also dissemination of awareness-raising rules, good practice rules for administrations, in order to try as much as possible to protect themselves preventively against malicious acts. With regard to the preparations for the upcoming elections in 2018 and 2019, the Minister of the Interior asked the CWB to conduct an assessment of the cybersecurity of the new system for transmitting data on election results. In this context, I can tell you that there is active work under way with all the bodies concerned to ensure that we can raise the level of security of our systems, taking into account recent developments in the world, including in Europe, with information indicating possible interference in electoral processes. Finally, as far as the prevention of the Cambridge Analytica type of profiling is concerned, it does not fall within the strict meaning of network cybersecurity, within the meaning of the Royal Decree which creates the CWB, but falls within the scope of the protection of personal data, for which European regulations have just been translated into government deliberations on the subject. As you see, we are trying, in the face of these new phenomena that we are facing, to organise cooperation and coordination, with a role for the CWB, which must ensure that everyone, given his expertise, can deploy his skills and his action, in order to protect, as far as possible, democracies against malicious interference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u41	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, I did not know that you were in charge of coordination at the CWB level. I learned this by asking questions, since I had asked Mr. From Backer and to Mr. Jambon. Mr. De Backer refers me, as you do today, to the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Belgium is going to be late in implementing this regulation, since it comes into force on 25 May, and that important bills are currently being blocked at government level. They have not yet been tabled in Parliament. We have voted urgently for the implementation of the Data Protection Authority provided for in a third bill. I think we need to be very careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u42	They have just returned from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u43	All right! It will be a matter of being extremely careful. If your angle of attack to fight against the possible interference of foreign powers in our future elections is the GDPR, it must be quickly applied in Belgium and all legal provisions must be taken to that end. The question I am asking you, in fact, is very complex and very new. You didn't say that, but I think, as your Minister Mr. De Croo, that we must succeed in fighting fake news and its political impact, including the manipulation of an election, while protecting freedom of expression. This is the most complicated. I'll throw flowers at you for once. The initiative taken by Mr. De Croo in terms of participation to fight fake news is a good thing. I invite you to do the same for the implementation of the GDPR. Thus, we will have good protection to prevent our elections from being manipulated in the long run by a foreign power or even by foreign private forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, the final report of the Committee of Inquiry under reference, better known as the Kazakhgate Committee of Inquiry, was voted at the plenary session on 26 April. In the final assessment of this report, it is stated in particular that:"41. The Committee of Inquiry considers that it is not ethically acceptable that the then Vice-President of the Senate, Mr.Armand De Decker, should have allowed himself to have an intervention by the then Minister of Justice, Mr. De Clerck, in order for the latter to intervene in an ongoing judicial case. If such a request had been accepted, the Minister of Justice would have violated the principle of separation of powers. [[...]] 43.1. The Commission considers that it is not ethically acceptable that the then vice-president of the Senate, Mr.Armand De Decker, had allowed himself, in order to find his mobile phone, to request an intervention from the former deputy general of the Sûreté de l'État, Mr. Alain Winants, in order for the latter to order a special method of intelligence. The Committee of Inquiry is curious that Mr Alain Winants has responded to Mr Armand De Decker's request. [[...]] 45. The committee considers that it is not ethically acceptable that the vice-president of the Senate of the time, Mr Armand De Decker, went to Paris to meet with one of the deputies of the national coordinator of the French Intelligence, and misrepresented himself as the chairman of the Belgian parliamentary delegation to the Intelligence Department." Prime Minister, apart from the other findings and assessments of the commission of inquiry concerning the role of Mr.Armand De Decker in this matter, these assessments are particularly heavy, especially in view of the status of the person cited, former federal minister, former president of the Senate, and also minister of state. Mr. De Decker was appointed Minister of State on 24 November 1999, by a royal decree countersigned, as is the rule, by a member of the federal government. In addition to the symbolic aspects of this function, he is a member of the Crown Council - even if it has not met for a long time - and especially of the limited circle of the Sovereign's advisers in the event of a political crisis, which is likely to occur more regularly in our country. Given their seriousness, these assessments by the Committee of Inquiry undoubtedly deserve political follow-up with regard to the person whom they are specifically aimed at. Mr Prime Minister, can you please tell me whether you have read the report of the Committee of Inquiry, which I have no doubt about, and in particular its assessment of the "deontologically unacceptable" acts committed by a Minister of State? Do you consider, in the light of these explicit assessments, that the Minister of State may retain this title? If so, what is the procedure to be followed for the removal of this title? Can a royal decree be annulled by another royal decree? Has this procedure already been applied in the history of our State? I didn't find any trace of it, but you have more important means than mine to verify this fact. Are you prepared, in this case and if so, to apply it for the first time, given the seriousness of the errors identified by Parliament, and the value of an example to be preserved for a function as symbolically important as that of Minister of State? There must still be some 30 people alive at the moment, names that we obviously respect for their political past and their services to the nation, regardless of their party.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. The title of "Minister of State" is above all an honorary and protocolary title. No remuneration or benefits are related to this title. As you mentioned, the title of Minister of State is issued by the King, and it is a royal prerogative granted under a royal decree countersigned by the Prime Minister. Armand De Decker was appointed Minister of State at the same time as Frank Vandenbroucke and Jos Chabert, by a royal decree of 24 November 2009. So I'm correcting the date you mentioned that was not correct. Ministers of State are members of the Crown Council where they sit with an advisory voice. The Crown Council met for the last time in 1960, at the time of Congo's independence. As regards the withdrawal of this title, there is no precedent. This title has never been withdrawn, not even when its holder has been either charged or convicted. And there are examples of ministers of state who have either been the subject of judicial information, indictment or even conviction. There is currently no organized mechanism for withdrawing the title of Minister of State. And finally, I note that there is always a judicial procedure that is under way, with regard to the person you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u46	Prime Minister, you will have noticed that I have kept to the parliamentary judgment on the ethical errors that Mr. De Decker has...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u47	Did you say parliamentary "judgment"?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u48	I don't think I've used the term "judgment," I'm removing it. To "appreciation", if you prefer. I stood by, Prime Minister, Parliament's assessment of the actions of Mr. De Decker. I have not extended my own opinion on the subject, which I have already expressed in the media, and there is indeed a judicial procedure that is still under way. According to my party and myself, the acts committed by Mr. De Decker is particularly serious. Today there are some 30 ministers of state alive whose names I can quote: Louis Michel, José Daras, Magda Aelvoet, Gérard Deprez, Herman De Croo and others. As elected officials, we have a duty of exemplaryness, Prime Minister. This is all the more important because our responsibilities are important. Irrespective of the judicial investigation and pending its results, we can state that Mr. De Decker wasn't exemplary. It undermines the status of parliamentarians and ministers of state and, as such, I regret your attitude. Errors of the past (i.e. not having withdrawn the title of Minister of State from agents involved in judicial files) should not justify future mistakes. By not acting, by refusing to act, you give the impression of accepting facts which I consider to be grievous, which has been confirmed by the commission of inquiry, regardless of the judicial process under way. Your answer, Prime Minister, is not up to the gravity of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u49	Prime Minister, billionaire Albert Brother was regent of the National Bank from 1980 to 1995. His son, Gérald Frère, was one from 1998 to 2018. Cédric Brother, grandson of the first and son of the second, is proposed to this same function by the government. As is customary for the post to be renewable and renewed, the latter could, like his father, be regent until the age of 67. At the age of three, the Brother family would squat the National Bank's Regency Council from 1980 to 2051. This appointment calls first of all to question the "dynastic" aspect that it takes on and then because the Brother family is not a model of ethics or even of respect for the laws. His fortune owes a great deal to the public finances of different countries (Belgium, France, Brazil) as well as to the art of forging relations with the political world. For example, the sale of its steel trading company to the Belgian State at an abnormally high price is considered a fundamental step in its enrichment, as its famous operation "Arche de Noé" on Paribas, during the French nationalization of this group. The Brazilian press also refers to Albert Frère's name in acts of corruption by the former president of this country (the Petrobras-Pasadena case). Cited in the LuxLeaks, the Brother family resorts to tax havens such as Luxembourg, Panama or the Netherlands-Dutch Antilles duo. The umbrella company of the Frère group is also a Dutch foundation. The Brother family sold a series of Belgian flagships to foreign multinationals. These include the BBL, the Royal Belgian, Petrofina, RTL, Editions Dupuis, Tractebel or Quick. According to his spokesman, quoted by The Last Hour of April 22, the Minister of Finance "followed the advice of the Prime Minister's office" by proposing Cédric Frère. Do you confirm this statement? Is this the usual practice that the Prime Minister suggests the person to be appointed to the National Bank's Regency Council? Who suggested you propose Cedric Brother? Have you had any discussions about this with members or representatives of the family or the Brother group? Why choose a – very rich – boss over the government quota, when employers' organisations already have a quota of regents to appoint? Is there a link between the appointment of Cédric Frère and the fact that his father and grandfather have held this position since 1980? Do you not find that a decade in wealth management, at Degroof Bank and in the family group, is a somewhat meagre experience to be able to sit on the Regency Council? Finally, do you not find that the questionable features of the enrichment of the Brother family – pumping public finances, use of tax havens, sale of Belgian flagships abroad, etc. – justify not appointing one of its members to the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u50	Mr. Chairman, I will be relatively brief, since the answer has already been given on behalf of the government. I assume it, in the same way as I assume the decisions taken either by the government as a whole or by each of the ministers that make up it. Mr Van Hees, the National Bank's regency board – and this is not new – is intended to be relatively representative of the diversity of the social, economic, industrial and financial sectors. Thus, trade unions are represented by eminent personalities, as are the entrepreneurial and financial sectors. He has followed a path in the latter field, in fact at the international level. It therefore has some knowledge of global economic and financial mechanisms. It is in this context that, in accordance with the procedure laid down, a proposal was drawn up and submitted to the General Assembly of the National Bank. More generally, for designations, we follow the procedures that are specific to each body and body. That's the way we did it in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u51	Prime Minister, if I asked you the question in committee, in addition to the one that I asked in plenary and to which Minister Jambon had responded, it was because, according to La Dernière Heure, you would have recommended to the Minister of Finance that Cédric Frère be nominated for this position. That's why I asked you the question, and that's exactly the one you're not answering. Prime Minister, I would therefore like your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u52	I will repeat that I accept my decisions and decisions made by the government or by the various government ministers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u53	That's not my question! I ask if you confirm that you gave this advice to the office of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u54	The Prime Minister responded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u55	The Prime Minister did not respond. Prime Minister, I ask you whether you suggested... do you confirm the words of the Minister of Finance's spokesman at The Last Hour? I take note that you refuse to answer. So I assume you have something to hide in this procedure. If you yourself proposed this to the Minister of Finance, the question is who suggested that name? This is where it becomes interesting, and even a little doubtful from the point of view of the conflicting relations between the political world and the business world. You are silent and your non-response is challenging!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Peteghem's 25338 has already been dealt with under a previous item. Debates of the European Parliament 25583 by Mr Dallemagne on the financing of terrorism is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u57	The three questioners may first ask their questions for two minutes each and thereafter any political group which has not yet spoken may join either in the questioning or in the reply, including for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u58	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am not among those who consider that, as soon as there is a tragedy in this country, it is necessarily the fault of the government. At the same time, the death of this little girl, this little Mawda, is a fortunately exceptional tragedy that deserves clarification and answers to questions that are heavy on the circumstances, still partly obscure at this stage of the investigation, of this dramatic inquiry. Prime Minister, we are counting on you to ensure that all the clarity is made, in a totally independent manner, on the circumstances of this inquiry, on the level of force that was used, and on the circumstances that followed the inquiry. That is my question. What can you tell us at this stage about these tragic events? Why did a policeman use his weapon? There seems to be little doubt about this today. Is it confirmed that a policeman used his weapon? Why, when this vehicle was apparently not stopped at that time, did the policeman attempt to target the driver when there were many people on board? Under what circumstances was this little girl hit by a bullet? Why was she separated from her parents when she was seriously injured? How were the rescues organized in relation to this seriously injured child? Why did the prosecutor's office in particular fail to be cautious in announcing, in the moments following the arrest, that this child had not been injured by a bullet? How will the investigation now be conducted? Through what mechanisms in the area of justice and police, the P Committee, whose role it is to investigate the use of force and the modalities of the arrest? Finally, I also appeal to your humanity with regard to these parents. I saw you got them. There was even a photographic cliché. I saw the empathy you had for these parents. At the same time, your Government has just issued an order to leave the territory. What I ask you to do is to ensure that these parents are able to mourn this child in all possible serenity, that they can participate in the investigation, that they can remain in Belgium and that there is no decision which seems totally contradictory to the empathy you have shown towards them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u59	Mr President, Prime Minister, as our colleague has said, little Mawda died under still unclear circumstances, but in any case tragic. It's a bullet fired by a police officer who would have hit the child, even if we're still waiting for Committee P's investigation. Prime Minister, could you take stock of what the government knows, at this stage, pending the ongoing investigation of Committee P? How many shots did they take place? Has the small government or cabinet come together to discuss the circumstances of this tragic event? If so, what were its conclusions? One particular question is that I don't care. Is the smuggler, or driver of the van, the same person? Why was this person released, while he or she is also potentially responsible for the tragedy that took place? Could you recall the rules of application for the use of weapons on the public highway, and in particular when it comes to hunting a vehicle suspected of being the carrier of trafficking in human beings? I would like to know in particular where the use of a firearm is permitted. Mawda's parents were ordered to leave the territory, while their child was not yet buried. Do you intend to ask the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration for a minimum of manslaughter, to show humanity and at least to postpone the application of this order to leave the territory, so that they can gather on the burial of their child? Since the girl was shot dead in Belgium, probably by a police officer, will the parents be able to initiate the proper judicial proceedings in order to first shed light on the loss of their little girl, and then mourn her once the judicial truth has been given? This implies giving parents a right of residence during the judicial proceedings. In this increasingly harmful political atmosphere, do you envisage blocking the opening of the closed centre for children, which is currently being built in Steenokkerzeel and whose objectives are totally contrary to the various international conventions to which Belgium is a party, because in this case they are also children and their future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, as you said on the plateaus this weekend, the tragedy that took place in Maisières last week calls for dignity, and in that we share your view. This tragedy also requires composure as well as seriousness, out of respect for little Mawda first, but also for the suffering of her parents and brother, a family we are thinking of today. Dignity is to ensure that the circumstances of this death are clarified and that responsibilities, including political responsibilities, are established. We understand that investigations are under way and must continue without pressure. We also agree, but without pressure does not mean without urgency. It is therefore essential to know the truth about this tragedy as quickly as possible. We count on you to ensure that these investigations will be carried out impartially and transparently. However, it is not pointless to ask you here a series of questions which must, today, find answers. I hope you bring them to us. The chase started in Namur province to find its tragic outcome in Maisières, Hainaut. Which units are involved? What were the numbers available at the time of the incident? What information was available to the police officers involved in the operation regarding the vehicle to be intercepted, the nature of its activity and the passengers inside the vehicle? The information disseminated by the Public Prosecutor's Office has changed considerably in the first 48 hours. What are the reasons for this? Secondly, with regard to the arrival of relief workers, the national and international press reports a delay of some 40 to 45 minutes before the arrival of an ambulance, which seems to be confirmed by the testimony of the parents. Can you confirm that? If so, can you give us the reasons for this delay? When were the emergency services called? How long did it take them to get there? We were particularly upset when we learned that the little girl would have died alone in the ambulance, as her mom couldn't accompany her because she was handcuffed. Worse still, it seems that the parents were not informed of their child's death until the next day because they were imprisoned separately. Can you confirm or deny this information? Dignity, in such a tragedy, also concerns the way in which victims are treated, which should not be treated as culprits. In this regard, it is our responsibility that La Louvière's CPAS will pay for the burial costs of little Mawda. What initiatives are being taken by the federal government in this area? What support and psychological support are provided to the victim's parents, his 4-year-old brother and other occupants of the vehicle? What measures have been taken with regard to these 30 people? The press reports that all, including Mawda's parents, were ordered to leave the territory. I would like to stress, here, the almost inhumanity of the speed of such a decision towards – I would remind you – the victims. Do you confirm this information? For the purposes of the investigation, would it not, on the contrary, be useful to ascertain their presence in the territory so that they could contribute to it? The procedures in force provide that victims of human traffickers are given special protection when working with the judiciary in the dismantling of networks. Has this possibility been exposed to the occupants of the vehicle through an interpreter speaking their language? If so, what was their response to the offer made to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u61	Who wants to intervene, either in the questioning or in the reply? So you cannot intervene in both areas; you must choose one of the two.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u62	Prime Minister, the parents of little Mawda fled the war in Iraq. "All we wanted was a safe place for our children," they said, and it was in Belgium that their two-year-old daughter was shot dead. The facts are grievous. While Mawda was taken by ambulance, her parents were handcuffed and taken away by the police. They only learned of his death 24 hours later. Many questions arise, Prime Minister. First on the facts themselves. The policeman has apparently just declared that he was collapsed, that he did not want this. In what situation did this happen? Why did he shoot? This is clearly not a self-defence situation. Is this policeman still on duty? The events that followed are challenging, too. While the police usually interview the different people separately to identify the smuggler, this was not done here. The next day, the people were released before an obligation to leave the territory, as if the witnesses had been pushed to shoot themselves, despite the homicide. Do we know where these people are now and what has become of the smuggler? He would have run away according to the version of the police but not everyone shares this version. And then there is the unqualified: the treatment of the family. Why have the parents of little Mawda been handcuffed and taken away despite their daughter's condition? Why did it take them 24 hours to learn about their daughter's death? Mawda's four-year-old brother is said to have been locked up together with his parents. Do you confirm this fact? How do you justify putting a child in a cell? Has the family received an order to leave the territory and if so, will you reconsider that decision? Will the family be able to stay in Belgium, first to stay in the country where their daughter died, but also to follow the current procedure? What also raises questions are the actions and statements of the Public Prosecutor's Office or Committee P. It is questionable why the Public Prosecutor's Office stated on the first day that the death was not due to the police officer. Another strange thing was that the prosecution first stated that Committee P had closed the case the same day and then Committee P said that the investigation was still under way. Now it appears, according to the family lawyer, that Committee P would still have closed the case the same day before the investigating judge asked him to resume the investigation. And finally, there are statements from members of the government. What does Minister Jambon mean when he says: "This kind of incident proves one thing, it is that we have to crack down much harder on smugglers". He also says the police can shoot a van allegedly driven by a smuggler to arrest him. Do you support that? Do you support Minister Jambon when he says about the police that they have done their job and that they have to deal with smugglers every day? Is work killing little girls? What are the instructions given to police officers in a case such as the one at the origin of the drama? What are the instructions in this case? Finally, this tragedy raises the question of the repressive policy of the government, which not only criminalizes smugglers but also migrants. This is a clean-up policy that Ministers Jambon and Franken define. Some police officers themselves can't do it anymore. Prime Minister, do you intend to review this policy, which is not firm or human, but repressive and inhuman?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u63	Mr President, we all agree on a number of issues across party boundaries. Unfortunately, the incident shouldn't have happened. The feelings of compassion of everyone are certainly in place. What we all agree on is that what happened raises a lot of questions that need to be answered. It is not only for parents but also for all authorities that these questions need to be answered. However, I would also like to see this happening in a serene manner and that we can also be on the same wavelength. It is not the case at present, as Mr Van Hees is unfortunately doing here, to link a particular policy of ministers or State Secretary to it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, what matters now is that we have a serene investigation. I believe I understand that the P Committee has been ordered to examine the matter. I would therefore ask that every Member express his or her full confidence in the P Committee's research. I can tell you that the P Committee certainly guarantees an independent investigation, even in difficult circumstances. Remember the period of the attacks of 22 March. Even then, the P Committee had to investigate certain matters and dared to expose them to certain responsibilities of the police, which sometimes led to some disagreement. This proves, however, that the P Committee dares to conduct an objective examination. It is just that objective but serene investigation that we need now, pending the decisions. So let us not make decisions now, but wait for the investigation in confidence. Mr Prime Minister, I hope it is also your position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u64	Prime Minister, I agree with what the other Members have said, namely that we are all faced with the tragic death of two-year-old toddler Mawda, daughter of a brother's parents and sister. That means that we all have to and can ask questions about this. If we did not ask questions, that would be a very serious inhumanity. I don't know our country like that. It's been announced that there'd be an investigation. We shall also await the investigation before we make any decisions. That doesn't change the fact that questions remain open in the meantime. There are several versions of the tragic death of the girl, which are now being corrected. Prime Minister, I do not need to tell you that in such a situation, wrong communication is the worst thing that can happen to anyone. Prime Minister, you have received the parents. Can you tell us, first of all, how the parents were informed of the death of their little daughter? Were they in an institution at the time? Were they stuck? Why couldn't one of the two parents, if necessary accompanied by a police officer, join the ambulance? Why didn't they choose that? In what way were the parents informed? Secondly, can you confirm, as the Secretary of State did this morning on Twitter, that the parents can and can attend their daughter's funeral? Could you give us some more information on whether the government has already decided whether the family can stay in the country until the investigation is completed or not? Will they be deported? Thirdly, everyone agrees that smugglers need to be dealt with hard. We have always pursued a policy of tackling people smugglers, while protecting the victims, those who flee from the horror in their country, because they have already ended up in the hands of smugglers. We have questions in this regard, because we have been receiving more signs of aggression between the police and smugglers of human beings in recent months. Do you have a better idea of how the government intends to deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u65	In view of the exceptional circumstances, I now consider the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to be split up and Mr Calvo once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u66	Mr President, I had just asked you whether or not my question had come through and you had said that it was okay. Prime Minister, I believe that such a situation should not only show great restraint and serenity, but that it also fits in with intense commitment. In that sense, I would like to thank you for taking time to meet the family, an expression of both serenity and commitment. Without making any too bold conclusions, I think that the political world should be involved after such an incident. We must do the same from Parliament. The right questions need to be asked, in the hope that answers to these questions will also be formulated. Especially after the confusing and clumsy communication of some services, such as the public prosecutor and the police, there are many questions about the incident. I would really like to invite you to contribute to the investigation in this area and to answer those crucial questions. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask three specific questions in conjunction with my fellow Members. Can you tell us a little more about the actual conduct of the Committee P's research? The P Committee may, in principle, examine in full independence and enter into dialogue with Parliament at the end of the investigation. What's the situation with the parents? Right now, I think those parents are having very difficult days. As a Belgian State and as a society, we must guarantee a dignified framework. Can you guarantee that they will be able to attend the funeral and experience the outcome of the investigation in our country? I do not know the answers to the investigation yet, but I think that such an incident should invite us to look at the general policy. The political world rightly has the ambition to be tough on people smugglers, but it is now also facing a very unfortunate incident. I invite you to make that exercise. That is a political exercise, a policy exercise. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that such an incident should invite us to continue to look at the persons involved as people, as victims, instead of looking at them as perpetrators. Such an incident obliges us to think about it and make that exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, as Prime Minister, I have been confronted with particularly difficult times, particularly tragic times, and it is certain that the situation we have experienced in recent days is tragic, tragic, with a family that is totally devastated by the loss of a 2-year-old girl. I actually met Mawda's parents and little brother yesterday morning for an hour and thirty. It was an opportunity for me to offer our condolences; the personal condolences of a father of a family, as well as our country's condolences. I believe that the honour of a great democracy – and I believe that Belgium is a great democracy – facing this type of situation is to ensure that the light is made, that the truth is given. This is the minimum when we face such a tragic and dramatic situation. Many legitimate questions were raised this afternoon by parliamentarians. Many legitimate questions were also addressed by parents. My responsibility, as Prime Minister, is to ensure that, with the utmost independence, the various investigations can be deployed so that answers can be given in dignity. I immediately indicated that, and I will say so in the solemnity of this place too, I will, as far as I am concerned, refuse any form of instrumentalization of the death of a 2-year-old girl in circumstances as tragic as these. I will give you some information on the basis of the questions that have been asked. First of all, a judicial investigation has been initiated. An investigating judge was appointed. A study was also launched by the P Committee. We must give both studies every opportunity and wait for their results. We have found, like you, that the first communication of the public prosecutor's office was wrong in its content. As Prime Minister, I am in favour of objective and correct communication in relation to the public prosecutor. In general, but certainly in these circumstances, I share the reasoning that correct communication is crucial to serenity and to ensure that everything is done to find out the truth. The Minister of Justice and I also suggested that the judicial authorities meet with the family and their lawyers. This was supposed to take place, in principle, this morning. In the course of this afternoon, during our committee, the Prosecutor's Office organized a communication on the subject to provide a number of information. Given the principle of separation of powers, it is not a tradition for the government to speak in the place of the judicial authorities about the facts. I therefore do not intend to comment on the questions raised at this stage on the number of shots fired or on the initial results of the investigations. Nevertheless, I would like to answer some specific questions. Under what conditions can the police use force in our country? It is precisely an issue that will be considered in the judicial investigation and in the context of the investigation conducted by Committee P. As regards this aspect, there are in fact two rules of law that must apply. On the one hand, there is the Criminal Code which determines the principle of self-defence and the conditions under which self-defence can be recognized. It will be up to the magistrate to clarify this matter. On the other hand, the other rule of law that applies to our police officers is the law on the police function that determines under which criteria force can be used. Here too, it is within the framework of these norms of the rule of law that the democratic, judicial or the P Committee – which works under the control of Parliament, as everyone knows here – will have to make clear this element. I have indeed been informed that orders to leave the territory have been sent immediately – and not today – to all those who have been arrested. In the future, what is his situation in Belgium with regard to the family? We are in the rule of law. We are in a state of law. This means that there are procedures. I intend to make the details of my conversation with the family public. For obvious reasons of respect, we agreed with the family not to give details of our conversation, but I found yesterday that the family felt it necessary to examine with their lawyer what initiatives could be taken, in accordance with our regulations. I would like to provide some information on what is possible within a legal framework in Belgium. There is in our country – I think it is Mrs Fernandez Fernandez who mentioned this – a possibility for people who are victims of human traffickers or smugglers to stay in our territory. The family therefore has the opportunity to use this legal instrument that exists in our law. There are other legal possibilities that can be activated. If these legal possibilities are activated – the one I have just mentioned or others – they will be treated as they should be, i.e. within the framework of the rules that apply and following all the procedures. I therefore intend to take care of the perfect duty of humanity in such tragic and tragic circumstances as these. I'd also like to say a word for our police officers. I've heard a few public statements in the hours following this tragic incident. On behalf of the government, I would like to pay tribute to the efforts and difficult working conditions of our police officers. I know our police officers have been shocked by this incident, too. I want to highlight this because we are all measuring that the security environment in Europe and Belgium has significantly changed the relationship to security in our democratic societies and has significantly changed our expectations of our law enforcement forces. Before Parliament, I am committed that the government will ensure, in accordance with the principle of separation of powers, that the light can be lighted, that this situation can be treated with dignity and humanity. No one can rewrite history. Today, a family is devastated and our duty, as democratic institutions, is to shed light, with respect and dignity, so that this family has the right to the truth. That's the way I understand things. I will always be available to continue the democratic debates on migration issues, especially on the issue of migrants in transit – as was the case with this family that did not intend to settle in Belgium, like many other families that pass through our country. I will always be open to an argumented debate, while measuring well the differences between us in terms of European issues. I believe that there is also a European challenge in the area of migration. I believe that we should adopt a different strategy at European level in order to achieve a better, more coherent approach to migration. I also know that there is a difference of opinion in this House on migration policy. This applies not only to Belgium but also to all European countries. There are intense debates on migration policy in all European countries. It doesn't seem to me that today is at stake. We will certainly still have the opportunity to address these issues. I will always be faithful to the appointment to take on the government's convictions and action in this area. In any case, in this chamber, I would like once again to extend our condolences and our full support to the family of Mawda. I also confirm my commitment to return to you, when you so wish, to communicate to you - as we receive them - information on the circumstances of this tragic event, but also on how the family was treated and received afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u68	Prime Minister, first of all, I thank you for the dignity that surrounds this debate around such a tragic event. You recalled that we are a great democracy and that we have a collective responsibility, to know the truth about what has happened, to make all the light, to check whether the rule of law has been respected. We have rules of law, you called them back. I have reviewed these rules of law and it is true that there are many serious questions about how they would or would not have been respected. You recalled your wish to see an independent investigation. It is true that it is indispensable. I confess that the way in which the communication was made by the judicial authorities has undermined our confidence in the way in which investigations are conducted. I hope everyone will come together and realize how important it is to get the truth. With regard to the order to leave the territory and beyond the humanitarian considerations that we have both recalled, if an independent, serious and impartial investigation is to be carried out, it is necessary for the parents to remain in our territory so that they can give their version of the story. It's very important. As far as government policy is concerned, it would be too easy to establish a causal link. At the same time, it is important to check that this firm and human policy, which we have supported, the rest. The instructions given to the police must enable them to realize that they have in front of them victims of trafficking, people who flee war and misery, sometimes. In this case, these people are fleeing the war. In understanding them, the particular situation in which they are in must be taken into account. I thank you for following this tragic event closely, as it could be emblematic of how these issues are dealt with in the future. It is important that we receive all the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u69	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, I have a thought for the parents. The circumstances of Mawda's death mean that all of Belgium learned of the death of this child before the parents themselves. It's something extremely painful. Secondly, we will see what independent investigations will say, but using a firearm to control or attempt to control a van that transports migrants is extremely confusing. You'll have to see why a firearm was used. Was that proportionate? Thirdly, while the disaster of the death of a child has occurred, I wonder why an order to leave the territory is given to the entire occupants of the van. Why don't we free the parents so they can go to their little girl's bedside? Why not arrest smugglers or persons suspected of being smugglers, are they not questioned, are they not locked up? The objective of the race-prosecution and the shooting or shooting - it is not yet known - was precisely to fight against smugglers. In the current state of information that has come to us, I note that the smuggler, smugglers or persons suspected of being smugglers or traffickers of human beings have not been arrested. However, that was the goal of the race-prosecution. We will be very attentive to this element, beyond the drama. I would like to conclude by welcoming the serenity of the debates and the height we have taken. However, I would like to recall that the event took place in a context and climate, which is that of the application of what you call "a firm and humane policy". I would like to recall what this policy is about. I will quote a few examples. A law that we passed in this House two years ago makes it possible to ban a person who was born on Belgian soil and who merely committed an act contrary to public order. We have also passed a law that allows the CGRA to control the electronic devices of asylum seekers because, according to the Secretary of State, 60 to 70 per cent of asylum seekers lie - which is wrong, we have verified, and the Secretary of State has acknowledged it himself in the Chamber. This law treats asylum seekers as criminals and even terrorists. Remember this video of the Secretary of State who grabs a black person by a suction cup and welcomes it. You have a deputy prime minister who says we need to clean up entire quarters. There are also these rallies quotas in Maximilian Park rather than offering front-line support to these migrants in transit, which, I grant you, is a new theme. This overbidding of the stigmatization of the foreign person must stop. I hope that Mawda's horrific disappearance will at least have served that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u70	Prime Minister, I thank you, of course, for your answers. I understand you couldn't answer all of our questions, but you won't blame us for asking them to you, because they had to be. There is, of course, the question of political responsibility. Like you, I believe that we should wait until it has been determined after the investigations that have been opened and that we wish to be impartial, transparent and independent. At this stage, and because I have confidence in the institutions of my country, I will await the conclusions. Of course, there must be no doubt or question. That's the price of dignity you were talking about this weekend. I appreciate that you are at the disposal of Parliament to come back to him if necessary. In addition to this, Prime Minister, there remains the question of the political consciousness that must animate all women and politicians at every level of power and that must guide us in our choices and actions. I am thinking in particular of the members of the government. I am somewhat concerned about the firmness of this political conscience after hearing certain statements, in particular, from Mr Jambon. Indeed, even before the beginning of the investigation which we are asked to wait for the conclusions, the latter had already targeted certain responsibilities. Members of your party did the same on television sets this weekend. However, this political awareness must animate the members of your government, because – as my colleague has just said – we are living in a harmful and very special climate in terms of asylum and migration. I will not go back to the statements, tweets and videos of some. This is no place to talk about it today. This political conscience, Prime Minister, must above all be translated into acts, because victims were in the van. As I recalled in plenary last Thursday, the first victims in asylum and migration cases are children. The death of little Mawda brought us sad proof. We must therefore translate this political consciousness into action. The first is to remove orders to leave the territory for all passengers in the van. The first reason is that they are victims and the second that they are witnesses to an ongoing investigation, that you want as transparent and impartial as possible. A second act must be the establishment of psychological support for Mawda's family, namely her parents and her little brother. Of course, you said that you did not want to present, here, all the actions undertaken by the government, but I must ask you again for this measure. I hear you're looking for solutions. I believe that political consciousness must be essential in the search for these solutions, in particular through the discretionary power of your Secretary of State to grant a residence permit, inter alia for humanitarian reasons, to the family of Mawda, so that she can legally reside in the territory of the commune where their little girl will be buried. Finally, I believe that this political conscience must go beyond the sad facts we have been experiencing in recent days and urge you and your Government to question the decisions taken a few days ago on the fate of refugee children, whether accompanied or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u71	Mr President, I appreciate the Prime Minister's attitude, both in substance and tone, both during this debate and during the last few hours. Mr Prime Minister, you have, of course, called for an investigation. I agree with that. This is a two-year-old toddler. A rule of law obliges itself to clarify matters in such a case. On behalf of my group, I urge that the independence of investigations be respected. There are two investigations going on. The first under the judiciary. That investigation is carried out by an investigating judge, who has a very independent statute in our legal system. The second study is that of the P Committee. I think I know that the P Committee has been commissioned by the investigating judge. The P Committee will examine the facts, of course, because the police are involved and a firearm has been used. The P Committee shall examine this in full independence, but of course under the supervision of the advisory committee. Mr President, all the concerns raised in this committee are important. I do not intend to intervene in the examination of the P Committee. However, it has been a relevant and valuable debate, across the borders of majority and opposition. It would be good if the report of this meeting would go to the P Committee and the I Committee through the advisory committee and a report would be drawn up there so that the advisory committee could play its full role. That too is an important element. Of course, there are the political questions to be asked in this committee and in the coming days and weeks in other committees, but it is also the role of the advisory committee to monitor the research conducted by the P Committee. The P Committee has a specific mandate. My concern is that the many aspects that have been raised here can be effectively transferred to the P Committee, so that a very wide-ranging investigation can be carried out, which is not hindered by anything. That is my suggestion, once again, not to intervene, but to have the assurance that the P Committee will examine everything but everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u72	We will indeed forward the report to the P Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u73	Prime Minister, let me begin by thanking you, both for the answers you have tried to give us this afternoon and also and above all, for the empathy you have naturally shown towards parents by receiving them at length and by probably encountering the greatest distress that parents may face. We are not prosecutors here, we are certainly not judges. We are – and this acronym always reminds us – representatives. Representatives of a people whose emotions we most certainly share but who also expect us to behave in the face of this tragedy with rigor and complacency. There can be no question of political recovery. I find that while the debate has been serene at 99% of the time, it has taken little time for this serenity to be lost in the lines. However, I would like to say this here: there can be no amalgam in the face of this tragedy. Nor can it be said that we are prematurely designating those responsible or guilty. Of course, there are smugglers but apart from smugglers, no one can position themselves or deliver a judgment in relation to what happened. Why? Just because we don't have the elements, we don't have the answers to all the questions. Many, if not all the questions that have been asked here were relevant but the answers are not yet provided, neither fcurrently, nor scientifically. In order to be able to make an informed judgment, everyone knows that we need all the information on this subject. The case is now in the hands of an investigating judge. The matter is also in the hands of Committee P. I have full confidence in our police services and of course I also have full confidence in our democratic institutions to deliver clarity on this painful event, and to do so quickly, and I fully agree with what Patrick Dewael just said. Time is indeed a negative factor, a factor that feeds rumours, suspicions. We cannot therefore argue too much for the investigation to be carried out with the utmost diligence, so that the answers are given less to parliamentarians than to the main victims, namely the parents of little Mawda. That is what I wanted to say, and I have no other question for you this afternoon, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u74	Thank you for your answers, Prime Minister. What has happened is tragic and should not have happened, but we are all aware that we must try to maintain a certain serenity in this debate. That's what you did in your answers. We must also guard the dignity of Mawda and her family. This is about a family, about people who have lost their daughter. Whatever the circumstances that family was in, this is a human tragedy. We must not forget that. That is why I think it is very good that we show the necessary restraint in our communication and that we do not draw premature conclusions. However, this does not mean that we need to know the truth and that we need to create clarity. Fortunately, we live in a state of law. So let us have confidence in the justice system and let us wait for the results of the P Committee to know what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-22-54-commissie-ic900x.u75	Thank you, Mr Van Peteghem. That is what all the groups have been talking about in this topical and urgent debate.
