ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to this meeting. I also welcome Mr. Philippe Donnay, Commissioner for the Plan. I welcome you as President in office since Mr. Delizée is currently in traffic and will join us later. We will listen to the various interventions; then there will be an exchange of views between parliamentarians and those present in the gallery today. Are there any questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u2	Mr President, I would like to know if, after the presentations, we can have a direct exchange. I explain to myself: in order to avoid a succession of questions, and then only the first answers, each Member should be able to have the answers to his questions immediately. It's more dynamic, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u3	I will tell Mr Delizée when he arrives, but I think that principle is acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u4	Mr President, is it not possible to split up the presentations in order to avoid asking questions that are meant for everyone? So I agree with Mr Nollet's suggestion. It would be interesting to split up the debate by speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u5	Mr Calvo, it has been proposed that people be listened to in the process so that we can have an overview. Then the parliamentarians will speak. Speakers have limited speaking time. It will give us time to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u6	Mr President, let us split up the questions and the debate by speaker. I have no problem with the presentations being combined, but I think that the questions should be asked separately. Otherwise, it's gonna be really hard to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u7	Mr Calvo, I'm flexible. If the committee wants parliamentarians to intervene after each presentation, that will be the case. The meeting may be extended. Sandwiches are ordered. We can work till 2:00 p.m. If I am well informed, there is a Nuclear Safety Committee at 2:15 p.m. So we'll have to finish at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u8	Mr President, I would like to programme the speeches all in succession because I can imagine that, on the basis of a certain statement, I will once again have a number of questions. The additional information can then give rise to additional rounds of questions, and then never reach the end hour of 14:00. I therefore call for all the explanations to be heard in succession so that we can have a complete overview.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u9	That's a good solution. In particular, responses could be provided in subsequent presentations. Let's do the hearings and have a question-and-answer exchange, as decided. As part of the agenda, the experts of the Plan Bureau have the floor for their presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for having us here today. We thank you for inviting us to present our analysis. Our analysis deals with the nuclear unavailability and the news that we heard on Friday 21 September 2018, in particular that six of the seven nuclear reactors would stop in November 2018. Allow me to comment briefly on the operation of the Plan Bureau, because we have heard from the media that there is some uncertainty about our role and what we are doing. The Federal Planning Office is an independent institution of public utility. We are doing studies, we are preparing analyses and we are making prospects on socio-economic and environmental policy issues. Of course, energy is included. More specifically when it comes to energy, I would like to draw attention to the electricity law, which was already written in 1999. Since 1999, the role of the Planning Bureau has been specified. A legislative change in 2012 has highlighted the role of the Planning Bureau even more. In cooperation with the General Energy Directorate, the Planning Bureau has been appointed to draw up a further report on security of supply monitoring every two years. I would just like to outline this briefly, because we have heard from the media that there are some questions about this. So we are not making financial analyses in this respect, but we are doing analyses that frame energy and legal contexts. During the weekend of 22 September 2018, we carried out an initial analysis of the facts. This analysis has been done on the basis of existing studies; these studies are not collected anywhere in the archives, they are documented and can be consulted freely on our website. In our analysis, we have gone into three reports or papers that we have at our disposal and which are also public. The first study is Impact of the Pact titled. In February 2018, about six months ago, this study was commissioned by the Federal Minister of Energy, Mrs Marghem, who then entrusted us with the task of making calculations in connection with the Energy Pact. We have documented the results in report form on our website. A second study that we have carried out on this subject concerns the impact of nuclear production variations on wholesale prices on electricity exchanges, i.e. on the auctions intended for this purpose. A third study that helped us with that initial analysis is a 2014 study. That study involved a quantitative evaluation of sudden, unexpected power cuts on Belgian territory. We carried out that initial analysis because we found that the situation we would be in in November and we were informed of on Friday 21 September 2018 is highly exceptional. You should know that every electricity system, not just the Belgian system, is being developed, dimensioned on an N-1. An N-1 means that the system, the production capacities, are built in such a way that they must be able to withstand the failure of a large unit. That could be a nuclear reactor, which could also be an interconnection line with France or the Netherlands. If this failure of a large unit occurs, the electricity system must continue to function and must not be affected by it. The announcement we received on September 21st was that we would not be in an N-1. We've already survived an N-2 and an N-3, but we'd end up in an N-6. That is highly exceptional and unseen. I would like to thank the VRT for the fine graphs which show clearly when the seven nuclear reactors on Belgian soil would or would not function. You should know that, under normal circumstances, nuclear production accounts for about 50% of domestic electricity production. This can vary between 20 and 75%, but under normal conditions it is around 50%. We heard that 85% of them would not be available in November 2018. One of the studies I have just mentioned shows that the LOLE loss of load expectations, or the number of hours that the supply will not be sufficient to cover demand in our territory, increases with higher nuclear unavailability. This means that the production adequacy, the adequacy to meet demand at all times, is seriously under pressure. That doesn't mean it's going to fall into a coma by definition. That does mean that it's going to be very stressed out. What does the second study I mentioned show? We've started calculating nuclear production variations. In that paper it is about the period between 2013 and 2016. We then calculated what would happen if nuclear 'on' or 'off' stood for 2.5 gigawatts at that time was about Tihange 1, Tihange 3 and Target 1, and what impact that would have on wholesale electricity prices. That's for commodity electricity. Then we discovered that, for 2.5 gigawatts that were at that time alternating, we could determine a price effect of 10 euros per megawatt/hour. So that's significant. The third study, the blackout study, is about an estimate of the social cost of an unannounced, sudden power cut that will cover the entire Belgian territory. It is therefore an unannounced power failure which affects the whole of Belgium and for which no provision can be made to deal with it. The social cost for an hour's interruption amounts to as much as 126 million euros for one hour. For the second hour, the effect shrinks slightly because there is some kind of withdrawal effect, but after three, four or five hours that can go up exponentially. As a result of all these figures and studies, you will understand that we recommend a very secure follow-up of the situation and a further analysis of the situation. The first analysis focuses on the Impact of the Pact study, commissioned by the Federal Minister of Energy, Mrs Marghem. In that we have already calculated a sensitivity of what would happen if our nuclear park were less available in winter. We have calculated what would happen with reduced availability of the nuclear park and increased availability in the summer. From this, we learned that the LOLE, the number of hours in which the offer is not sufficient, increases from a comfortable less than 3 hours to 15 hours. On the weekend of 22 September we conducted an analysis of a reduced availability of 4 gigawatts. Then we see that the LOLE rises to 28 hours. From this, we can conclude that the LOLE will increase significantly in the event of higher nuclear availability and that the legal criterion will be called into question. We have therefore carried out additional analyses, which have been rather deterministic. What does the term "deterministic analyses" mean? This means working with one dataset that is available, not probabilistic or with probability or probability calculations, but with one dataset that we had available. We will then look at what happens if November 2018 would show the same demand profile as November 2017. First and foremost, we looked at what was installed and prepared on the Belgian territory without the 5 gigawatt nuclear power we could not count on, as announced on 21 September 2018. You can see that on the left side of the figure. You will then see the installed capacity. It is proposed by different technologies, what is called the electricity mix. You can see she's very varied. There are a lot of colors and therefore a lot of technologies that we have at our disposal to generate electricity. It's installed and it's on our domain. However, when we do adequacy analyses, it is not enough to look at what has been installed, but we must also take into account what we can use reliably and available. Reliable and available bets are not the same as what is installed. For this purpose, what is called a devaluation in technical terms must be carried out. This means that of the total installed capacity pieces are reduced or cut off, which we are not sure will be able to cover the full demand on a winter evening too. That is what is called reliable and available or in English reliable available capacity. Let me give you an example. You can see, for example, that the second block in the left column will completely disappear. That is the production supplied by solar panels. That production completely disappears during the winter evenings. So we cannot count on that to fill in, for example, the peak demand. We then signed off on this next to the question that happened in November 2017. When we look at the minimum question that happened in November, we find that we still have a little pillow left. With the minimum demand, we are still within reliable and available capacity. So we will be able to get that capacity. However, when we look at the average demand, we notice that it is above the reliable and available capacity. Especially when we look at the maximum question that happened in November 2017, we notice a real delta or gap, which is suggested by the blue arrow. The reliable capacity available is therefore the capacity in the Belgian territory. This blue arrow can be filled in by import capacity, for example, which we import from the north, the south, from the Netherlands, France and apparently Luxembourg. Then we started playing with filling out that blue arrow, the availability of input capacity. We have done this in sensitivity analyses or sensitivities. We have also carried out a sensitivity to see what would happen if the maintenance of the Tihange 1 reactor were to be brought forward. First that was scheduled between 20 October and 29 November, now it was announced that it would be brought forward to the period between 13 October and 17 November. We have also calculated this, to see if this has an impact on the adequacy calculations. Finally, in view of the principle of caution, we have also taken into account the situation in which Objective 1, Objective 2 and Objective 4 leave the market. It is now planned that they will return to the market in December, on 10, 15 and 31 December 2018. What if that cannot happen for some reason and, for example, they will not be operational again until February? We have then drawn up some tables. Those tables reflect, for the four months we consider critical, what is missing capacity or missing capacity on the one hand and LOLE on the other, the number of hours for which we expect for that month that the full supply, including imports, will not be sufficient to cover demand. We then see at maximum import capacity, with the maximum rack on the system, of 4 500 megawatts that only the month of November reaches the legal criterion. So we are still within the legal conditions, but it is really on the limit. Assuming that 400 megawatts can be imported less and that we only have 4 100 megawatts at our disposal, that for some reason a CEEC plant would not be available or that an offshore windmill park could not be delivered, this would immediately lead to worrying figures in November. We see that we are already at 17 hours of LOLE and a missing capacity of 614 megawatts. So we went even further down. This maximum input capacity can also be viewed if less wind is in the system than we have calculated for our reliable available capacity. Gas plants also have to run at full speed. If then, as appeared in the press, a wheel would turn off in a manner of speaking and an additional gas plant would fail, then we see that the LOLE hours are going to rise rapidly and that the months of October and December will also be in sight. They will therefore also record a significant number of LOLE hours. As mentioned above, we have also carried out a sensitivity in the later return to the market of Objective 1, Objective 2 and Objective 4. When we look at these tables, January always seems to be out of the question. That is because we can still count on at least 2 500 megawatts of imports in January. The table below shows that there is no problem if we leave the maintenance of Objectives 1, 2 and 4 in time and count on a maximum of 4 500 megawatts. However, if imports fall to 2 500 or 1 500 megawatts themselves, then we notice that the number of LOLE hours will increase significantly. According to the latest statistics, which we were able to consult, the maximum net import level in January 2016 was rather in the second column of this table, i.e. some 2 500 megawatts. In order to suggest it a little more intelligible, I hope that this will not affect the minds further. In this figure we have also defined the number of LOLE hours compared to one of the parameters that can influence it. I would just like to clarify that the LOLE is not a static one. The LOLE can change, vary and depends on a lot of parameters. We also see this very clearly in this figure. The number of hours depends heavily on the assumptions and the situation as it occurs. We have started looking at how the LOLE varies according to whether we have more or less import capacity that we can count on to strengthen our domestic supply. You will see that the LOLE is proposed per month. A different symbol and a different colour is used per month. The more net input capacity, the more the LOLE decreases, the more comfortable the situation and the more the legal criterion can be approached again. That's an important lesson. We have taken the figures from 2016, which are on the website of Elia, the system administrator, and we have checked how much the maximum net imports were in the various signed-off months. This is represented by circles. The green circles indicate how much the maximum imports were in that month and also indicate that we were actually below the legal criterion. In other words, we operate in safe mode. The red spheres show what the maximum import was in the months of 2016 and that, if this situation occurs in 2018, we will seriously exceed the legal criterion. That happens in November and December. That was the analysis that we first made. I would like to thank you very much for your attention. We are available for further questions and explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u11	Good morning, everyone. I'm asking you to excuse my slight delay. This morning's traffic problems are the cause. I thank my colleague Mr de Lamotte for launching the meeting. I greet all our guests, who have been introduced to us. I welcome the Commissioner for the Plan, who is also present. I now give the floor to Mr Chris Peeters, Elia's CEO.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving us the floor today. Before I begin, I would like to make it clear that I will make my presentation in Dutch, because the subject matter is quite technical. On the other hand, I will answer your questions in French and Dutch, depending on the language in which the question was asked. Before we explain the current situation, we would like to clarify a number of points, as my predecessor has done. The electricity sector is a fairly complex sector with many parties. We have also seen in the press a number of times that Elijah's role was not always clear. We will briefly explain our exact role. What are the core tasks of Elijah? Elia has three major core tasks. Firstly, we manage the high-voltage infrastructure. This means that, on the one hand, we are maintaining it so that we have a high level of reliability in the network. On the other hand, we are also providing the network needed to support the energy transition. At the powerpoint you will see projects such as Stevin and the expansion of the interconnections, but also the strengthening of the backbone in Belgium are part of this core task. Elijah's second core task is to facilitate market forces. For this we give people access to our system, operators but also suppliers. We ensure that new players can gain access, including aggregators who bring new technology. We have also been working on battery technology a lot lately. We also participate in the fairs. We ensure that market forces can function properly. Elijah's third task is the task we will be discussing today: to ensure that the Belgian electricity system is in balance at any time. For this we develop products such as demand response, but also reserves that allow us to carry out this task. We carry out this task in real time, and important, on the basis of resources made available to us by others. Elia is therefore not a producer of energy and cannot intervene with her own capacity. Elia will therefore have to ensure that he can buy that capacity on the market. If that capacity is not there, Elijah cannot carry out his duties without taking additional measures. In order to manage this properly, we also have a number of legal tasks in addition to these core tasks. An important legal task is to create a strategic reserve and to look at the winter situation. This is something that happens at the request of the Federal Energy Minister. As you know, the government is responsible for the Belgian security of supply and Elijah has a consultative or advisory role in it. We study and deliver it to the Minister. On this basis, it makes its decisions, which we may also carry out operationally afterwards. Importantly, in the press a number of times the remark has been made that Elijah didn't communicate much to the general public. We have an advisory role in this. For us, this means that we respect the institutions. We advise the minister and the government. The scoop will therefore always be for Parliament or for the minister and it will be up to them to decide on further communication. In our role of supporting security of supply with calculations, we come back to those same LOLE calculations. The legal criteria for carrying out our task, so to keep the system in balance for an entire winter, are set at 3 hours LOLE in normal conditions and 20 hours LOLE in extreme conditions. I'm getting to the point. What has happened in the last ten days that has claimed all our attention? Last Monday we presented our report to the Minister, demonstrating that the legal criteria for this winter were no longer met. The reasons are suddenly changing market conditions. As you can see on the timeline, we started when the Minister announced that we did not need a strategic reserve for this winter. I'll come back to that later. That was the end of August. Two days later, ENGIE Electrabel announced that Objectives 1 and 2 would remain closed for longer, namely until mid-December and until the end of December. Three weeks later, several newspapers write that uncertainty is growing about getting back on the market from Tihange 2 and 3. On September 19 or 20, ENGIE Electrabel says in a reaction to the press that nothing changes the planning, and then one day later announces a change of five or seven months respectively. In short, Tihange 2 and 3 are no longer available for the rest of the winter. Very shortly after that announcement on Friday, we sat together with the minister in the cabinet. It was agreed that we would carry out analyses during the weekend. The LOLE calculations we do are completely probabilistic, with a rather complex model, which is a small day for results. Different scenarios have been developed at that time. We then discussed them again with the Minister on Monday. The sudden changes we have seen are of an order of magnitude that we have never experienced in our country. Preferably 3 gigawatts are suddenly no longer available for this winter at three weeks time, or part at least until the end of the year and 2 gigawatts throughout the winter. This represents 25% of the total installed manageable production capacity in Belgium. This, of course, has an immediate impact on the security of supply this winter. Questions surfaced, including whether Elia could have estimated that and whether Elia should have created strategic reserves if necessary. We can clearly answer these questions that this is not the case. The reason for this is the following. If you look back on the timeline for the development of strategic reserve, as laid down in the Belgian electricity law, you will see that we are drawing up a budget for the following winter at the beginning of the year. On 15 January, on the basis of Elijah's opinion, the Minister said that 500 megawatts of strategic reserve could have to be created for the coming winter. Elia was allowed to initiate the procedure to sign that 500 megawatt. That is why we organised an auction on 15 March. After that auction, some important changes were made to the market. On 19 March, EDF Luminus announced that Seraing's gas plant will return to the market. The strategic reserve and the market operate somewhat like communicating vessels, in the sense that a power station available in the market or in the strategic reserve can be counted for security of supply in the winter, so that we no longer had to count it in the volumes for the strategic reserve. In April, it was also agreed within Central Western Europe that there would be an additional transmission capacity or cross-border capacity for Belgium. As a result, Belgium's import restriction has been increased from 4 500 megawatts to 5 500 megawatts. On this basis, the Minister asked us at the end of July to re-create the calculations, taking into account that new situation. On 17 August we delivered our decisions on this study to the Minister. We have taken into account all the information available at that time. This means that, for the availability of the power plants, we rely on the REMIT transparency platform, which is a legally supported platform, in which suppliers are obliged to immediately disclose availability and unavailability. Any changes should also be made immediately on that platform, as this has an impact on electricity prices. In addition to the availability registered on REMIT, we, like the colleagues of the Planbureau, also maintained a margin of one large entity that could be supplementary. Back reflecting on the month of November, we assumed, on the basis of REMIT, that there would be two plants in service. We therefore included in the calculation a margin of an additional power station that would make half the park available, while we can ultimately count on one power station. Here you can see how the picture has changed quickly and how drastic the changes we have been faced with. Here you see the unavailability as known on 30 August on REMIT indicated in yellow. You will also see the prognosis for the month of November. As I said, we assumed that two nuclear power stations would be unavailable. You can also see that by mid-September the entire park had to be available again. As you can see, shortly after it was announced that there was no need for a strategic reserve, it was announced that Objective 1 and Objective 2 would be unavailable until mid-December or end-December. We have therefore made our calculations again and we saw that the margin I have spoken of would suffice. That was also discussed with the Minister at the time. When we were informed on 21 September that there was additional 2 gigawatts unavailable, we saw the immediate consequence. For November there is a consequence of 3 000 megawatts, compared to the calculation of 17 August. For winter there is a difference of about 2 000 megawatts. These things, of course, require all our attention. Let me zoom in on the calculation in the different periods. The July simulation, which was communicated to the Minister on 17 August, contained the negative figure 300. Basically, we had 300 megawatts extra available on the market compared to what we needed to do our tasks, so there was no need for a strategic reserve. On 1 September, following the announcement of the unavailability of Objective 1 and Objective 2, for the period until mid-December or the end of December, we made the calculation again. You can see that the margin then fell back to zero. One important point is that the original calculation gave the largest tension field in the months of January and February. I'll talk about that later. Because the planning for Objective 1 and Objective 2 only covered the first part of winter, November became the most critical month in our calculations. What you see in the calculation of Monday 24 September, which was then handed over to the Minister, is that because of the additional 2 gigawatt we have a market deficit according to those calculations of 1.6 to 1.7 gigawatt, which you have heard or read correctly in the press. What's our role from that announcement on Friday? In short, what are we doing and what are we not doing? We are ultimately responsible for assessing the situation in neighbouring countries. We immediately contacted our neighbors TSO's. These are in our case TenneT, Amprion and RTE, where RTE in the south is of course very important. I'll talk about that later. Whether the situation in France is an import or export situation, a large part of it has a repercussion on the level of tension on the Belgian market. Yesterday we received very positive news in this respect. In the meantime, the French network operator has run the simulation for the whole winter. For the first part of the winter, it was concluded that for a winter once in ten years, the network operator may still have a capacity of 1 000 megawatts of exports to the Belgian market for the months of November and December. That is important good news, because you will see in the analysis of the situation that this plays an important role in improving the situation. What are we still doing? We are a permanent participant in the task force, set up under the direction of Mrs Marghem. We are not, of course, the ones who have to look directly for capacity, because that is the responsibility of the government, but we support that process, because there may be barriers for certain market players. We have also considered, among other things, whether it is technically possible to support the regulatory system, whether it should be supported by legislation and whether contracts should be signed, that Seraing could come to the market sooner. The same goes for Vilvoorde. We look at the quality of the demand response we receive, and examine whether the contributions we receive make an effective contribution to solving the problem. As Mrs Devogelaer has already said, an additional installation of solar panels will not help to stop the peak in the evening hours. In this sense, we must look in particular at the quality and absolute availability during the critical hours. What happened in the meantime? I will come back to the new calculations we have made since then. In the meantime, there has been consultation with ENGIE itself and with a number of market players. Last Friday, ENGIE announced that Tihange 1 would come to the market early and that Coo 5 and Rodenhuize 4 could come to the market faster. In addition, you have seen that, on the initiative of the Minister, a number of other volumes were identified and we have included them in our calculation. If we assume in the calculation that this process is still going on, that everything I have just said is definitively confirmed, then you will see that the deficit of 1.6 to 1.7 gigawatt for the coming winter is reduced to 700 to 900 megawatts. That is of course, as I said, provided that the announced 750 megawatts is fully firm and provided that Tihange, Coo 5 and Rodenhuize 4 come to the market earlier. So, on the one hand, we see a very positive development for November, on the other hand, we still do not meet the legal criteria for the implementation of our task for the whole winter, which means that there is still a risk of scarcity. I will also zoom in on the import story, because this is, of course, an important key to the further risk assessment. Here is the calculation that corresponds to the calculation we made last Monday. It is very important to mention that these two calculations are independent calculations. This is an operational calculation, which is deterministic, while the previous pages dealt with probabilistic calculations. So there may be some small deviations between those two figures, but it is the figures that are monitored by us for the next few weeks and are further worked out that week after week. The capacity calculation shows that in November, if winter conditions are not as good as they are, a larger capacity will have to be introduced than Belgium has ever introduced. In that sense, of course, that is a very critical situation. Here you can see the calculation made after all the measures I have just announced: you can see that the situation in November is still very exciting if we end up in severe winter conditions. On the other hand, you can see that the situation is already somewhat flattened, especially with the news that, in all these circumstances, at least 1 000 megawatts could be imported from France. We believe that, in the light of the legal criteria, we should keep the switch-off plan in hand, even if the chance that we will have to apply it effectively is considerably reduced. You can also see that there remains a challenge with regard to the situation in winter, especially if that is a severe winter. There we have so far received much less positive signals from France, which means that potential solutions for the period January-February must be sought further. Ik kom tot of conclusion. The situation we have reached is unseen. Market conditions have changed enormously in a very short time, with 3 000 megawatts difference for the month of November, 2 000 megawatts for a number of other months. In our earlier studies, we have already said that we must work on the core step in our country. I would remind you that in the previous hearing we raised the figure 3.6, which corresponds to the need for gas plants to compensate for a nuclear exit. If we compare that figure to the current situation, we have 1 gigawatt of available nuclear capacity with a problem automatically. The latest analyses show that an additional capacity of 700 to 900 megawatts is still required. If we look at that realistically, we must say that we will probably not be able to make up for it in full by November. We'll keep looking with the minister. We're looking at the slopes she's putting in to see if they can produce more megawatts. So we will continue to work together to see what is possible. However, when we see what is available on the market, we find that we will probably not be able to close the whole difference. November will remain a critical month. It is important to mention that the shift of Tihange's maintenance will certainly be a success in the second part of November. There we get a full gigawatt supplemental capacity. You will see in our figures that the risks will be reduced considerably. Additional measures are still needed in January and February. We think it is necessary for ENGIE to further consider whether adjustments can be made to the maintenance planning so that they can come back to the market early with one of these nuclear blocks in nuclear safe conditions, hopefully from the beginning of January, so that the situation there is also brought back under control. To sum up, the situation seemed very serious to us when we judged them on Friday afternoon in the first hours. In the meantime, a number of actions have been taken which have partly reduced the risks. The windows have also been reduced for a long time. We are currently focusing mainly on the first weeks of November and January-February. However, it will be a winter that we will not go in accordance with the legal provisions and we will have to monitor week by week how the situation is evolving. Therefore, we remain at the disposal of the government to support where we can and to examine all the slopes it provides for their feasibility and to analyse their impact on security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u13	Thank you for your presentation, Mr Peeters. The next speaker was Mr Thierry Saegeman, Chief Nuclear Officer of ENGIE Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I will alternate my presentation in Dutch and French. Much has been said and written since September 21. I intend to answer your questions as accurately and pragmatically as possible. I regret that there is some confusion about the situation. So let's start at the beginning. In November, only one of our seven nuclear units will be running. From November 17th onwards, if everything goes as planned, Target 3 and Tihange 1 will be connected to the network. The unavailability of the nuclear park has three causes. Tihange 1 will be in planned revision from 13 October to 17 November. The nuclear fuel must be unloaded and charged so that the plant could run again during the winter. Objective 1 and Objective 2 are at a standstill to carry out part of the EUR 700 million investment needed to deliver them for a longer period of ten years. A small leak was also detected and our teams are working on the analysis and repairs. Finally, in Objective 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3, inspections of concrete are under way in the buildings in the non-nuclear zone, where emergency pumps are housed at the second level. The condition of the concrete differs from building to building, but what is certain is that the works, adapted to each diagnosis, need to be completed according to an approach and methodology approved by the government, so that the Federal Nuclear Control Agency can give the approval for the reboot. So only one unit is stationary for maintenance. The rest is still for repairs linked to nuclear safety requirements. When we talk about concrete problems, what exactly is it? Under normal operating conditions, system 1 operates in the power plant. System 1 consists of the usual control room and all the equipment needed to cool the reactor. In the very exceptional case of an incident, such as an earthquake, system 2 can start. The system 2 which is therefore the back-up system is located in a separate reinforced concrete building. It is located in the non-nuclear part of the plant. This building, a bunker, resists extreme events like the fall of an airplane. In other countries, such as France or the Netherlands, such a back-up system does not exist. For nuclear safety reasons, prior to each start-up of the plant, it must be demonstrated that this bunker is operational. When, in some parts of the bunker, the concrete is too damaged – and here you see some photos before the repairs – deep repairs are needed. That's exactly what's going on right now. Why is concrete reached? Steam at very high pressure and at very high temperature (about 200 degrees) is released in the upper rooms of the bunker that you see in the photos, during shutdowns and start-ups of the plant. This has been happening for thirty years already. This steam causes thermal shock and moisture on walls and ceilings. These phenomena end up damaging the concrete in the long run. By the way, we are not talking at all about the phenomenon of degraded concrete (or "betonrot" in Dutch) but about a very particular phenomenon and limited to a very specific place which therefore occurs only in the said locales. I'll be back in the pictures. These are the repairs we ended up doing in Objective 3. Today Objective 3 is on the net and delivers 1 000 much needed megawatts to the net. In these photos you can see that we have placed a new roof layer on the building. We've got the FANC's approval to restart. How is it that the maintenance of the various power stations coincides now? I often get the question of whether this could not be spread out better. In normal circumstances, the maintenance of the various power stations does not coincide at all, but today we are not experiencing normal situations. Today we are experiencing very exceptional circumstances. As a nuclear operator, we are now in the midst of a cascade of significant investigations and work on three plants at the same time, in which we have always acted with foresight from the outset and always with nuclear safety as the first priority. This is done in a continuous dialogue with the FANC, which should eventually give the green light for the start-up. You can compare it with a complex renovation of your home. You start at the walls and finally decide to replace the roof, because in the event of a very extreme storm a tile might fly away. Here you can see the timeline of our communications. It's important to cross this timeline. In October 2017, we find that Objective 3 requires significant repairs. After examining several options, this will eventually lead to the installation of a new roof layer and a safe start-up in August 2018 on 1 February 2018. Immediately after the winter 2017-2018, especially in April 2018, we will start the extensive inspections of Tihange 3. The first findings are reassuring, but in mid-June we find that the vertical irons in the ceiling do not all seem to be in their right place. We couldn't have known about this at all. In my power stations, real superhumans work, but we're not supermans who can see through the ceiling. However, nuclear safety requires that this new information be examined in dialogue with the FANC. It takes time. With our findings on Tihange 3, we immediately decide in June to advance the inspections on Objective 4 from November to August. We do this just to have that unit available in the winter of 2018. For the moment, we expect this unit to return on 15 December this year. In Tihange 2 we will also start the inspections immediately in August. During the summer, we called together more than 200 engineers and several hundred contractors at three yards to carry out colossal inspection programmes and repairs at the same time. It is also important that you know that this is not a copy-paste story. All units have a different design and different recovery techniques have been applied in the past. The month of August goes by, all inspections take place, and on 21 September we have all the information and can communicate new start-up dates in a stable way. Let me say something about REMIT and our communication obligations. I would like to respond to what I heard earlier, in particular: "ENGIE Electrabel says on 20 September that everything is fine, and on 21 September that is suddenly not so anymore." Of course, that's not how it works, in terms of communication. There is, on the one hand, information about the state of power stations and, on the other hand, what one has to communicate to all the energy players in the market about the availability of power stations. The regulations, called REMIT, are very strict. Whenever one has a new, clear understanding of the state of his plants one must communicate his best estimate of the new start-up date. Let me give you the example of Objective 3. You can see that here. Light green colored, at the bottom of the arrow. For example, the start-up date of Objective 3, stopped in October 2017, has been updated five times on REMIT. That's not unusual. This is also the case for all other conventional power stations that publish information on REMIT. In the meantime, the regulation determines, under no circumstances should certain market players be given privileged information and one should remain at his intended start-up date. We always apply these rules very closely, even in this technically complex situation. I'm just gonna think about how our stops are scheduled and what happens next. How are all these works, these revisions, these scheduled shutdowns linked with the operation of our plants? Every 18 months (or every 12 months for Doel 3) a nuclear power plant is shut down. So it's relatively common. This is done periodically, so planned, in order to replace the reactor fuel. During such a planned stop, hundreds of inspections are carried out and, depending on the findings, repairs are carried out. Some are postponed. This is part of the normal course of operations. Provided, of course, that there is no risk to nuclear safety. It's no different for bunker concrete. In the 1990s and 2000s, we had already made repairs and improvements to them. For example, we had installed thermal protection plates or coatings, i.e. specific coatings. And so, by the way, I want to firmly deny the words of a mysterious anonymous witness that you may have seen on television, taken up last week in the media on this subject. Inspections have always taken place, as well as repairs. And as soon as we knew that larger repairs were required, in October 2017, on Doel 3, we took the necessary steps. These measures, we are still taking them on the other units. I would also like to return to the responsibility of ENGIE Electrabel, in particular with regard to security of supply, now and in the future. ENGIE Electrabel has a local and diversified production park. As you know, we are the country's largest green power producer and we also have gas, biomass and hydropower plants in this country. We represent about 50% of electricity production in Belgium, which also means that there are other players who produce the remaining 50%. As a nuclear operator, it is our primary responsibility to ensure nuclear safety for our fellow citizens, staff and contractors. It's always a priority. Our second responsibility, as the country's largest energy supplier, is to provide our more than 2 000 000 customers with energy and services day and night and to have the necessary power stations run or to purchase energy from other producers or from the energy market. In other words, the energy that our customers get off the grid must be globally and at any time in line with what we inject as a network user. That is our contribution to the overall balance of the Elijah system. We have always accepted and will always accept these responsibilities. However, it is not our responsibility to ensure the balance between supply and demand on the high-voltage grid. That's Elijah's work. Nor is it our job to transport the electricity to your home. That is the work of Fluvius, Sibelga, RESA or ORES. Nor is it our responsibility to determine the country's energy policy. That is, of course, the work of successive governments. On the other hand, we are a responsible company, which has been producing electricity in Belgium for over 100 years. So we will do everything we can to help Elijah in his search for additional capacity. We will use our diversified and flexible production park to maximum effect this winter. We have performed optimizations in our classic production park by delaying as many maintenances as possible until after winter. This translates into an availability of 12 gigawatts (or 12,000 megawatts) of capacity, the equivalent of 12 nuclear power stations.... not 12 nuclear power stations, as I have read somewhere, but the equivalent of 12 nuclear power stations. This capacity is divided as follows: 5.2 gigawatts in Belgium and 6.8 gigawatts in the Netherlands, Germany and France. Last Friday, after a consultation with the operational teams, we were able to record that we could advance the planned maintenance of Tihange 1 by a week and shorten the scope of the works. We also concluded an agreement with the owners of the Vilvoorde plant. Finally, we also use a system of demand management with our large industrial customers. By the way, we're looking at all the possibilities. I was therefore pleased to hear that our efforts have been rewarded when I have seen Mr Peeters' presentation. We therefore call for further work to be carried out. We'll cooperate, too. We also call on all other producers and suppliers, as well as Elia, to cooperate and find the missing megawatts. One question often asked concerns the impact on prices of these unavailabilitys, in particular following the announcements of 21 September. I'd like to go back to that for a moment. It is a logical question, which everyone is asking themselves: our customers, and all consumers. It is true that energy becomes expensive. Heating oil prices doubled compared to last year for people who have to fill their fuel tank. Market gas prices increased by almost 60% in one year, from 16 euros/MWh to 25 euros/MWh. I know you know this: in your bill, only a quarter represents your energy consumption. It's Luminus, Lampiris or Electrabel. The rest are charges and taxes, support for renewable energy, transport and distribution. The unavailability of Belgian nuclear power plants has led to a short-term increase in so-called "spot" prices in Belgium, mainly due to uncertainty. Market players are wondering when these units will be back. This increase is of a temporary nature. It will last until the power plants are back in operation. This will therefore have a relatively small impact on final customers' bills. On the other hand, what needs to be stressed, and the graph presented here attests to this, is that the elements that have a real impact on the price of electricity in wholesale markets have been rising since the beginning of the year. The price of gas, coal and CO2 has a structural impact on the price of energy in the markets, on which the various suppliers buy to meet the needs of their customers. You can see here the curve representing the evolution of electricity prices, while the surfaces illustrate the evolution of gas and coal prices, including the cost of their CO2 emissions, processed in the appropriate power plants. Finally, the production costs of these gas or coal-fired power plants determine the rise in prices. The shutdown of nuclear power stations at the moment and the announcements of 21 September have made little contribution to this increase, with uncertainty with short-term effect. For our customers and for households in general, we recall that everything depends on the type of contract: fixed or variable. It is difficult to give figures. Anyway, I think energy is getting more expensive. This is our conviction, which is why ENGIE is working to offer energy efficiency solutions. The solution, in our view, is to consume less. Our ambition is to help our customers better and less consume and to make this country the champion of energy efficiency. One more word about ENGIE Electrabel. Some claim that Electrabel is enriched by the current situation in Belgium. This claim is, of course, wrong and we wish to formally deny it. As you can see, prices on European markets have been rising for a year as a result of the increased prices of coal, CO2, natural gas. We also recall that the unavailability of our nuclear power stations is linked to nuclear safety and that this will result in a loss of EUR 600 million for us this year. It is therefore completely wrong and absurd to claim that the company takes economic advantage of this situation. We would be the first company in the world to pay off a situation in which we shut down the factories where we make our own product. By way of conclusion, I will tell you that it is not cheerfulness of heart that we must stop part of our nuclear fleet this winter. I hope you have understood that this is not in any way an ill-established revision schedule, but that it is because of nuclear safety issues. We are making every effort to get our park back into operation. This will be done under the uncompromising control of the AFCN. The condition of concrete degradation differs from one building to another and from one unit to another. We have mobilized the best engineers and technicians I am very proud of. We negotiate with our qualified contractors to ensure the availability of their best teams and their best construction managers. Of course, our contractors must be authorised by the competent authority and must undergo all the checks in order to have access to the two Belgian nuclear sites. These are extensive civil engineering works that require careful analysis, measurements and preparation. Moreover, the construction projects are running in parallel, which has a considerable impact on the teams to be mobilised. These contractors must first be authorised, as I said. These steps therefore take time and are under the control of the AFCN, which will ultimately have to agree to restart for each unit. I would like to assure you of the seriousness and involvement of my teams. We're doing everything in our power to run our units. The damage we are suffering as a company, as I said, is enormous, but we are also a responsible and locally anchored actor. We are the country's first green producer. We will do everything in our power to help Elia in her responsibility to ensure at all times the balance between supply and demand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u15	Thank you, Mr. Saegeman, for your intervention. We will certainly have the opportunity to come back to this at the exchange of views earlier. The fourth invited body is CREG, which is represented by a trio of directors: Mr Andreas Tirez, Mr Laurent Jacquet and Mr Koen Locquet. I imagine you will, as usual, allocate your speaking time. I will simply ask you to stick to fifteen, twenty minutes, if possible. Commission rooms are formatted for four guests. As soon as they are more numerous, you have to play musical chairs. I'm sorry, but that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, I thank you for this invitation, which gives us the opportunity to point out certain elements and to give some information on this dossier. I would also like to apologize to our President, who is currently suffering. The presentation will consist of two parts. Mr Tirez would explain the measures relating to market forces which could have an impact on available capacity. Laurent Jacquet, on the other hand, will give an overview of what has been seen regarding the evolution of prices at present and for the near future affected by events.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the invitation to explain the impact of market forces on security of supply. We believe that the proper functioning of the market can greatly reduce the risks of shortages and, hopefully, make them negligible. I should like to make three points. Firstly, the measures to increase domestic capacity. So it's about the extra capacity that's being sought. We think the market is doing its job. Secondly, measures to increase import capacity. We estimate that Elia works with import levels of 2 000 to 3 000 megawatts compared to a maximum import of 5 500 megawatts, which is possible for Belgium. Thirdly, we have a number of questions about the model used by Elijah for security of supply, about transparency and to what extent the results are consistent with what we see on the market. Firstly, the measures to increase domestic capacity. We see very high prices on the markets and that gives a signal, an incentive to all market players, not only to ENGIE Electrabel, to find as much additional capacity as possible. This requires exceptional measures in some cases, in the sense that we allow gas plants in Vilvoorde and Seraing to return to the market more quickly. There is a royal decision in the making. Then there are other ways to bring capacity to the market, for example demand response via a new system of transfer or energy, which has been in force since this year. That's no more than lowering the barrier to get the demand response to the market. On the other hand, there is also backup capacity installed with many consumers. This is about industry, hospitals, telecoms and agriculture. For example, the CREG has analysed the installed capacity in hospitals and a total of 200 megawatts would be installed there, most of which can synchronize with the network. These are things that can increase capacity in the interior. We are therefore not in favour of them being included in a strategic reserve in this situation. Why not? Because we have to pay for these strategic reserves and because they can only be used if there is a real shortage of electricity. If, on the other hand, they are excluded from the strategic reserves, they can be used much more and have a much more positive impact, a downward impact, on the price. The prices are such that the additional capacity can be activated economically in the market. Let me also say something about REMIT. As has just been said, REMIT is a European regulation requiring every market player to publish immediately and adequately any information that may have a significant impact on the price. Only then will that market player be allowed to act on the market on the basis of that information. This is an important new regulation which the CREG, together with the European regulator, then enforces in Belgium. We have already carried out these analyses in the past, for example in the period from October to December last year, when there were also a number of questions about the sudden unavailability of nuclear power stations. We then requested the necessary information from ENGIE and the FANC and found that the rules of REMIT were respected. Import capacity is another important means of improving security of supply. This is very important for Belgium: we can import up to 5 500 megawatts, and we have recently imported almost 5 000 megawatts. The new analyses we received from Elijah yesterday afternoon show that the need for imports is no more than 4 000 megawatts in November. For this reason, less imports were included. Elia did the calculation as follows: if France also has to import, then the potential imports for Belgium fall back to 2 000 megawatts or less. We now estimate that Elijah is counting on an import capacity of 3 000 megawatts or less, and that this still leads to a deficit of 700 to 900 megawatts. There is therefore a need for additional import capacity and we believe that there are three measures that could be taken by November 2018. These are not exceptional measures, but simply measures that better apply the rules for the internal market, the single market, based on European regulations and a recommendation from the European regulator, ACER. I would also like to point out that this low import capacity of 2 000 to 3 000 megawatts compared to the 5 500 megawatts that are possible, even if there are no shortages in Belgium in the coming winter, is problematic, because higher prices than necessary can seriously distort the market. Nor should the role of the European Commission in enforcing the rules of the internal market be underestimated. Three measures. The first measure has been in force since April 2018. The European market coupling is the market coupling that connects the different markets in Belgium and the neighbouring countries. If a transmission line of a system operator is in that market coupling, it must make at least 20% of the line capacity available to the European market. We really think that 20% is a minimum and we are in favour of raising it, but it has now been agreed that it should be at least 20%. Only that's not guaranteed. There have been days when network operators in other countries that have not reached 20%. We call for at least 20% to be guaranteed. According to Elia's estimate, 500 megawatts will increase import capacity compared to last year, when that rule was not yet in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u18	We also call for the winter limit of transmission lines to be applied in winter. This seems obvious, but on the basis of an analysis of 2016 and 2017, the CREG has established that not all European system operators do. We advocate that all network operators should always apply that winter limit. This also gives more capacity because a line can transport more in winter when it is cold than in summer when it is hot. A third important measure is to limit the so-called loop flows on which the CREG has already provided regular information here in the Chambers. In doing so, she has regularly complained about the fact that high loop flows flow through the Belgian network. Walk flows are generated. In this context, it is mainly in Germany, because Germany has a lot of electricity in the north where there is a lot of wind and, not to mention, a lot of lignite. There is about 19 gigawatts of lignite in northern Germany. It produces a lot of electricity, which has to be transported south. Much goes through Germany, of course, but a significant part also goes through the neighbouring countries, namely Eastern European countries, but also through the Netherlands, Belgium and France. Those are physical flows. So these are not virtual but physical flows, which, although they provide low prices in Germany, can then lead cheap lignite and wind to the south. However, they do use our import capacity, which means that we have higher prices and perhaps even a risk of shutdown. This is about flows of up to 1 000, 2 000 and even more megawatts that we have to pass under the current rules, which is not in line with the rules of internal market operation. This means discrimination, since German consumers would then have priority over the use of this network capacity to the detriment of Belgian and other consumers in Europe. This is discrimination which goes against the rules of the internal market. The following is also important in this regard. Even if we were to have problems in terms of security of supply and thus risk an electricity shortage with prices of up to EUR 1 000, EUR 2 000 and even EUR 3 000, we would not be able to compete away. They will be given priority access. The good news is that a quick solution is possible. Physically it is possible to limit those loop flows. It can be done very quickly. That can be reduced, so to speak, next week. Why? Because Germany itself has capacity in the south in reserve, which is then called in order to be able to do redispatching. Germany therefore has that spare capacity, which last winter and this winter stands at 6 600 megawatts. This is the capacity contracted by the German network operators in the south of Germany, to activate if there were internal congestion problems with them, to start those power stations in the south so that those flows can be pushed back from north to south. If these are used to reduce our loop flows, it could have an effect that we estimate at 1 500 to 2 000 megawatts. This would significantly increase the import capacity for Belgium and greatly reduce the risk of cut-off and overpriced prices. Just a few words about Elijah's analysis of security of supply. We have a number of questions about the transparency of that analysis. We do get data from Elia on how much import capacity is needed to guarantee security or supply, but we do not get information from Elia about how much import capacity they charge. We need 4 000 megawatts in November, there is about 900 megawatts too short for the entire winter: is that because only 3 000 megawatts are imported or can be imported in November? Those things are not clear to us. Previously, the lower levels were taken into account: 2 000 megawatts. We also don't know all the reasons why Elijah charges those low import levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u19	There is no communication about the context either. Elia's model, on which I will return later, showed last week, when we were able to learn about it in the task force, that in November there would only be a deficit in Belgium if France imports too. The latter is an important condition and we believe that this could have been important information for the market. In any case, we find this important information, which I will be showing later, because we could make a different assessment of market prices. We also see that Elia is not proposing measures to increase import capacity in a sensitive manner, while we believe that measures are possible. Once again, it is not an exceptional measure, it is simply about the application of the European rules of the internal market, the single market, which has been a hot topic since the Brexit, I read somewhere. The second point is that the results we received from Elijah on Friday are not consistent with the results of the market. If it is true, as the Elia model showed, that Belgium can only have an electricity shortage in November when France imports, then it will of course be very important to know whether or not France will import. The consequence is, if France has to import when we have a deficit, that France also has a deficit. The market link means that France will have very high prices, up to EUR 3 000 per megawatt hour. If we then look at market prices for November 2018, you will see the trend in market prices since 1 August this year until the end of September. You can see that a shortage is expected in Belgium, with prices up to 150 and yesterday even up to 170 euros per megawatt hour. That's hugely high. However, this is not the case in other countries. On the basis of these market prices, it could have been estimated that France will certainly not have as many hours of scarcity as Belgium, not to say no scarcity at all. This was confirmed very recently by the French network manager to Elia. We want access to that model. That's what we asked here last year. We believe that it is necessary to be able to make the assessments and the impact on security of supply because this market operation, not only domestic capacity but also import capacity, is an important aspect to ensure security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u20	Mr. Jacquet, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u21	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the evolution of electricity prices. We will show the evolution of wholesale prices and then analyse the impact on the invoices of families, SMEs and large companies. I will make my presentation in French but the slides are available in French and Dutch. If we start with wholesale prices, what do we see? The top chart shows that the price of CO2 has increased significantly since the beginning of 2018. This is due to a reform of emission rights mechanisms that tends to reduce supply and thus pushes the price upwards. The second graph concerns the evolution of the price of natural gas. It has also been on the rise since the beginning of the year. This is due not only to the increase in the price of CO2 but also to the supply of gas which has tended to decline in Europe as a result of unavailability of transport infrastructure and high demand in Asia at the moment. The third graph concerns the price of electricity. We can see that it is on the rise but, for Belgium, rather since the months of April and May of this year. In the table, you see the awards on scholarships with different time horizons, with delivery for the next day (D+1) or the following year (Y+1). We can see that this increase is significant, of the order of 30 euros for the annual price, of less than 40 euros in January and 65 euros today if we average the month of September. At the next slide, if we look more closely at electricity prices in Belgium, we see that there is a drop in Belgian prices compared to neighbouring countries. You see that the blue curve, which represents the price in Belgium, passes over the curves of neighbouring countries. This is due to the unavailability of nuclear power plants – this is the effect we have talked about – but also of certain gas-fired power plants. You can see all this on the table below. In red are indicated the shutdowns of the plants for both the nuclear stock (above) and the gas-fired plants (below). You can clearly see that there was more red in September than in August or July. Let us now look at the impact for households and SMEs. The question that everyone is asking is what will be the impact of rising wholesale prices on the invoice. It can be said, objectively, that this impact will depend on the length of time the prices will be high. Two cases are possible. There are the contracts in progress. For them, there is relatively good news, as the vast majority – more than 60% of households and about 70% of SMEs – have signed fixed-price contracts. This means that they are "protected" by this contract. For them, therefore, there will be no impact of rising prices until the contract expires. In this case, it is therefore not advisable not to change a product or supplier. There are also contracts with variable prices. This accounts for about a third of consumers. These variable prices follow developments in the exchange of electricity prices. In this case, there is no urgent need to change product or supplier. At the end of the contract, it is strongly recommended to compare prices, first of all with the CREG Scan, a tool put in place to situate its product in relation to the most expensive and cheapest product in the market in order to make a real informed decision as to whether or not to change it. It is recommended, then, to go see on an online comparator in order to choose, among the suppliers' offer, the most interesting product. If the contract we've come to an end, two options are possible. You can opt for a fixed price. In this case, there is a certain danger since prices are quite high today. To opt for a fixed price therefore means to block this high price for a year or even two or three years. To give an order of magnitude, the prices of fixed products, today in October 2018, are on average 110 euros higher than the prices we experienced in October of last year. Prices of variable products are indeed high today, but let us not forget periodic indices, usually four times a year. In other words, there is a need to focus once again on price developments in the electricity markets on the stock exchange. It is generally expected that prices will fall around spring and summer each year, as this is the case. With the announced return of nuclear units, we should experience a fall in prices if everything goes as planned. This will of course be reflected in the consumer's bill. In the short term, if a contract has to be changed, it is better to choose a variable contract and to follow developments in order, in a time, to compare prices again and make the right choice. I come to two important points. The first is the fact that the electricity component accounts for about 25% of the invoice in Flanders and 30% of the total invoice in Wallonia and Brussels; the upward impact will therefore be on these 25% to 30% of the invoice. The second element is that the bill of account you receive is drawn up over 12 months. In other words, the amount of this invoice will depend on when you receive it. Customers who will receive it in the near future will experience a relatively small increase in bills. On the other hand, customers who receive it after the winter will feel the increase more significantly. After talking about households and SMEs, let's look at industrial consumers. A rather negative point is that the energy component accounts for a larger share of total industrial bills than households. Indeed, the industrialists recover and do not pay VAT. They often have tax overload degressions, etc. When they are not connected to the distribution network, they pay only the transportation rates. When connected to the distribution network, they pay relatively low rates. The upward impact of wholesale prices will be more significant for industrialists; this is the first observation. A positive point is that the vast majority of industrialists set their prices in advance, on the basis of so-called "clics" they do on future prices. In other words, prices for 2018 were largely determined in 2017, and sometimes even in previous years. What do we see? Over time there is an evolution tending to be more exposed to the hourly price of Belpex and to the price of imbalance, but, in general, the industrialists optimize their clicks well. In the example given here, on average, they were for the year 2017 at 36 euros/MWh at clicks while the average of all prices for the year was 39 euros/MWh, which is higher. This means that they have relatively optimal behaviour in setting their electricity prices. In conclusion, it can be said that the impact of these rising prices on wholesale markets on consumer bills will depend on the duration of these high prices; this is the first point. Second point: the impact differs considerably from one customer to another due to the type of contract, whether fixed or variable, but also due to the expiry of the contract and the arrival of the invoice. Last point: before changing product or supplier – we will never repeat it enough! –, you have to compare prices. For households and SMEs, it is first necessary to go to the CREG Scan to see where you are compared to the cheapest and most expensive product on the market. Secondly, it is necessary to go to an online comparator, preferably labeled by the CREG for the objectivity of the comparison, and to choose from the products offered by the suppliers the most suitable offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u22	Mr. Jacquet, thank you. I would also like to thank your two colleagues, Messrs. Shoot and Locquet. Colleagues, this concludes the presentations of our guests, of the four institutions invited. It's noon. Now comes the time for the exchange of views. In this regard, I have two technical indications. Since the configuration of the premises means that we can have four guests, I propose that the four institutions be represented at the guest table to be faced with Members and questions. We can still accommodate two people to my right. We use space as it exists. That's a first point. A second practical consideration is that the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety meets in this room at 2.15 p.m. This limits our work over time. I was thinking about how to organize this debate. If we proceed in the classic way, the groups are invited to speak with a limited time; about ten groups multiplied by five minutes, this is already roughly an hour. If it's ten minutes, it's been two hours, which is no longer really manageable. As the political debate with Mrs Marghem took place last week, the aim is not for each group to present its views on energy. We are not going to repeat this debate. I believe that the added value of this exchange of views, after hearing the presentations, is that Members can ask specific questions and, I hope, get precise answers also to move forward, to "enlighten" the general debate. I had thus thought to do tricks of two questions per group, trying to organize two to three rounds. It's already past noon. It's a possibility. But I hear that, under the chairmanship of my colleague from Lamotte, at the very beginning of the sitting, some have expressed the wish to ask questions to each guest or institution represented in order to conclude a debate and avoid having a debate that goes in every direction. So I have no problem asking questions per person or institution invited, if that way of working is right for you. We can do several laps if time permits. I would then ask that the interventions be limited to two or three minutes. That is already half an hour of questions for a round of ten parliamentarians. We have to be disciplined. If this way of working is acceptable to you, I propose to follow the order of the interventions. Let us start with the Plan Bureau, represented by Mrs Devogelaer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u23	In the meantime, we have received the data and heard the presentations from a number of other stakeholders, such as Elijah, who made calculations, and the CREG, who provided an overview of the interconnection capacity. Mrs Devogelaer, with that data in mind, how would you assess things today? After all, I can imagine, whatever I have heard in the various statements, that you have counted with something different than the gentlemen next to you, in order to achieve your results. Would you then come back to the same results today or do you see a need to re-examine a number of issues, preferably in conjunction with the people sitting at your table?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u24	Thank you, Mr Wollants, for the question. We were actually somewhat overwhelmed by the facts that Friday and Saturday. We then made an initial analysis, as it was described this morning. That first analysis was really based on the three studies that I mentioned and which all interested parties can freely consult. We then carried out additional analyses in a deterministic way, of course with the data that we obtained from Elia's datasites and from media reports on, among other things, the early maintenance of Tihange 1 and the possible marketing of the plant's capacity at Vilvoorde. The results would, of course, be somewhat different now, but we have worked as we have worked today. That is not our job either, by the way. Honor who deserves credit, this concerns Elijah with the models they have at their disposal and their contacts with RTE, with Amprion. Mr Peeters has made it quite clear. Their contacts, their models and their information are much richer than ours. We're not a federal energy agency either, we're an energy team at the Planning Bureau. I therefore believe that they are best placed to carry out the detailed calculations accurately. However, we felt that this analysis would allow us to map some things.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u25	Madam, you spoke of a social cost of EUR 126 million for an hour in which there should be a switch-off. Could you explain that a little bit more? After all, that is an immense amount, it seems very high. Could you explain to me who bears these costs? Is this the sector in particular or is it private or business? Could you give some insight into the composition of these social costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u26	Thanks for asking. We have indeed reported on that study on our website. I cannot stress enough that this is about an unexpected and sudden failure of the current throughout the territory of Belgium. No provision can therefore be made to mitigate the consequences. In the 2014 paper on our website, we calculated that the cost was 120 million euros. Meanwhile, we have re-run the black-out simulator, as the methodology is called, and as a result of inflation it is now EUR 126 million. What's that based on? That is based on two things. On the one hand, we are looking at business, both industry by NACE code and services. A value-added regression model is used there. We have checked how much electricity each economic activity needs and what happens to that activity if the electricity is not available for some reason. I am thinking, for example, of the activities of the Planning Bureau. If there's no more power unexpectedly at 10:00, then the light goes out and the computers go out, but we can read business and make calculations without power. So our entire activity doesn't have to lie still. That is quite different in the iron and steel industry. If there is no guarantee of the high temperature for the furnaces, then there are a lot of costs. We also need to send staff home. The iron and steel that has not yet been made can form around the furnaces. That brings with it real big costs. We have therefore checked this for every economic activity. On the other hand, we see that families also have economic costs. These are rather inconveniences. One can at least determine by means of surveys how great these inconveniences are. One cannot use the time as one had planned. Suddenly one can't watch TV, the microwave doesn't work and so on. We have taken that into account. Of the 126 million euros, around 8 million euros are borne by households. That's significant. That's 2 euros per family. The large proportion, 95%, is borne by the Belgian economy. About 50% of this is borne by industry and about 40% by the services sector. It is therefore not the case that those who consume most electricity will also bear the greatest costs. There is no one-to-one relationship between them. It really has to do with how economic activity is impacted, when one suddenly falls out of power. Of course, this 126 million euros is a figure for an hour of power failure during a winter day, but we actually have to take into account curves, depending on the moment. Is that winter, summer, 3:00 in the morning or 4:00 in the afternoon? 126 million euros is the amount for a winter working day at 10.00 in the morning. If we evaluate the effects at 5:00 in the morning, that cost is different. During a winter work day, without construction leave, the economic damage could be extreme for an hour of power failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u27	I wanted to discuss with you one aspect that I believe is essential: the cause of the situation today. It can be seen that nuclear inadequacies are primarily responsible for the risk of shortages today. Compared to your 2013 study on "100% renewable energy by 2050", is the problematic situation in which we are today not simply a consequence of the fact that we have not followed this plan? Why, in your opinion, has this plan not served as a basis for Belgium's energy policy? I believe that this plan has hardly been followed by the authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u28	We have not made that analysis today. It is a political decision. The Planning Bureau didn't just do the study either. It was commissioned by the four Energy Ministers, in collaboration with VITO/EnergyVille and ICEDD. We have indeed carried out a study of the technical feasibility on behalf of these four ministers. What we are discussing today is a very different phenomenon. This is where other things play. So I don't really see the link between the two.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u29	The link is that nuclear energy is at stake in the risk of a shortage this winter. If we had followed a nuclear replacement plan – which is in your 2013 study – we would not be in the situation we are in today. There is therefore a direct link between how to manage the energy transition and the risk of shortage this winter. The causes for which this plan did not serve as a guide for Belgium's energy policy should be analysed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u30	Mr President, the Planning Office cannot take a position on why the government is following a plan or a report. As I have already pointed out at the beginning, we analyse, prepare prospects, produce reports and serve the federal government, but also the regional governments. We are also at the service of the Central Council for Business and the social partners. We do that job. Afterwards, the ball is in the camp of policy makers. Everyone has to fill in their roles. We made the report. It is available and can be read. After that, however, it is obviously up to the policy of getting to work on it, if desired.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u31	Mr. Chair, in support of what Danielle Devogelaer just said, we are an organization that develops analysis and decision-support tools. It is not us who make decisions; we are not here to replace decision-makers, not only political, but also economic. As Danielle said, our representatives are the governments, the Parliament, but also the social partners in the Central Economic Council and the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u32	So you can't criticize them...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u33	Thank you, Mr. Donnay, for that clarification. Do colleagues still wish to speak about the Plan Bureau? No? In this case, Mrs Devogelaer, I thank you for your interventions and your answers. Do any colleagues wish to ask questions to the second institution on our agenda, Elia, represented by Mr Chris Peeters? I see a lot of demands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u34	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Peeters very much for his presentation. It was enlightening to hear a number of things. In fact, we need to look at the exact situation with regard to interconnection capacity. We know that it has increased in recent years. Could you give me a little more explanation? We have also heard the CREG, with which interconnection capacity was calculated exactly and what the scenarios are. I'd like to have your vision on that. At the same time, efforts should be made to plan a number of issues as well as possible. Do you think that in the short term there is still scope for additional capacity? For example, I heard in your statement that Seraing could return to the market on 15 October, but in REMIT communication EDF is still talking about 1 November for the time being. Some more explanation would be particularly interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u35	Mr President, I would also like to thank the speakers for this morning. The first question concerns the fact that, on 17 August. Elia provided an opinion that there was no need for a strategic reserve for this winter. The federal government is aware, via the AFCN, of the various works that can be done in the power plants and their timing. The AFCN is under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. Did you contact the government before giving this opinion? Or have you contented yourself with Electrabel's statements? Sub-question: Are the information channels between Elia, the federal government and operators sufficient to provide for unavailability? The second question is that even in the optimistic scenarios, which are more optimistic than they were two weeks ago, there will still be, if I understand correctly, a number of hours in which security of supply will not be guaranteed this winter. We saw that November was starting to get a little out of the critical zone. What about December, January and February? Mr Wollants spoke of imports. We know that imports are probably less possible at that time, as other countries will need their energy capacity. Can you tell us with simple words if there is a high probability of discharge? If so, how many hours? How do you respond to the criticisms made by CREG a moment ago about these import capacities? The CREG asks you what you do with your import and interconnection capabilities? That's the question I'm asking you, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u36	Mr President, I would first like to return to the role of Elias. Mr Peeters seems to say that security of supply is not a competence of Elias and that they are not responsible for this situation. Elia must not try to exonerate herself because the electricity law says that the management of the transmission networks is carried out by a single manager who is also responsible for the operation, maintenance and development of the transmission system, including its interconnections with other electricity networks, with a view to ensuring security of supply. I would therefore like to hear him on this point. On the other hand, in terms of import capacity, I expected you to clarify them further. We have 5.5 gigawatts of import capacity, but you mention only one gigawatt from France. These capabilities will increase. Why? Is that necessary? These are investments that cost the consumer a lot of money. Would it not be better to invest more in production capacity? I feel a lack of dialogue between Elia and the electricity producers. ENGIE, of course, which produces 50% of electricity in Belgium, but also all the others which divide the other half. The context is worrisome when we see the consequences of a discharge. This deserves a more intense and constructive dialogue between Elia and the various producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for coming here. I'm glad we got numbers now. In the last week, all sorts of figures were released in the press, but they were not confirmed. So I thought it was important to hear from you, which is why I immediately wrote to the chairman of the committee to invite you. I have three questions. The first question concerns the current deficit. I'm glad it's already dropped from 1 700 megawatts to 700 to 900 megawatts. The problem is a little smaller, but still not solved. I'd like to hear what possible solutions you're still seeing. What capacity can possibly be switched on or accessed? What slopes are you still seeing? Secondly, as Mr Wollants said, imports are a possible important solution. What strikes me, however, is that the various speakers have different figures. The Federal Planning Office speaks of 4 500 megawatts, Elia counts with 5 200 megawatts and the CREG states that imports can increase even more if the loops can be reduced. I find it remarkable that there are still different analyses on imports. I like to hear how much megawatt can certainly be imported in the short term. Is it not better that we all use the same figure in our analyses? Otherwise, we will continue to speculate with different figures. Thirdly, the whole discussion is about whether there is suddenly a problem or whether we should have seen it earlier and whether we should have made more careful analyses. The discussion is about the REMIT rule. It remains very strange that Elijah advised the Minister on 17 August to create 0 megawatt strategic reserve. Taking into account Electrabel's timeline, we note that Electrabel knew at that time that the situation of Tihange 3 was much worse than originally thought. Shouldn't this have been reported back then to Elijah to take into account a worst case scenario? The same happens later when the Minister himself announces that there will be 0 megawatt strategic reserve. Two days later it is announced that Target 1 and Target 2 will be out of service for longer and less than a month later a delay for Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 will be reported. Shouldn't this have just been communicated to Elijah more quickly, so that this could be taken into account in the calculation of the strategic reserve? In your view, has the REMIT scheme been correctly applied or not? If we had known all this in advance, could we have created more strategic reserve? Was there sufficient capacity to provide for this? Do you think the REMIT rule should be changed? Is it accurate or not? Can we draw lessons from this for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u38	Mr President, we are in a better situation than we were 14 days ago. Mr Peeters, you said that there is still a shortage of 700 to 900 megawatts, which is a little more rosy. Perhaps it would have been better if, as soon as the information of 21 September 2018 was known, all the parties who had just provided an explanation had been put together and tried to communicate at that time the solution that is now available. That could have prevented a lot of fuss. Of course, there's still a shortage. Not everything's been solved yet. I have a few questions about that. Some solutions are suggested by the CREG, particularly in the import field. The loop flows with Germany could possibly offer a solution. Have there been any contacts with Germany about this? Apparently, Germany still has 6 000 megawatts of reserve in the south. Maybe there's a solution there already. You just said that France would make 1 000 megawatts available. Is that also a possible solution? After all, it is not clear how much import you include in your calculations. Could this import be a solution to eliminate the remaining 700 to 900 megawatts? I also have a question about the demand side. Several companies want to close if they are asked that question. Is this only about companies that sit on the Elianet or is the distribution system operators also asked if they also have companies that may close down? I would like to ask another question about the next winter, which of course is not today's discussion. However, there are several interconnections in the pipeline, such as the Nemocable. Could you please explain what you think that could mean for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u39	Mr President, I have three questions. Firstly, can Elijah respond to what we have just heard from the CREG? Two things seem important to me. What import capacity does Elia take into account? The CREG said he didn't know, so I'd like to hear it from you. What does Elia think of the three measures proposed by the CREG? Does Elijah feel able to go on talking to Germany, France and the European Commission alone? Or does Elia need the help of DG Energy, the Planning Bureau or anyone else? Can Elia give the CREG and the Planning Bureau access to the calculation models? Other colleagues have already pointed out that it is the same here every time, everyone has their own calculation models and there are slight and sometimes large differences. Politics wants to call on the various actors to sit together and agree on a single calculation model. Secondly, according to its technical regulations, Elia may request that the maintenance of power stations be postponed in the light of security of supply. I just heard that Electrabel might be able to see what's possible in January and February. Was that question officially asked by Elijah? My third question is in line with Mr Dierick's. We are being introduced here as if the problem has suddenly surfaced. Have you been in contact with the FANC? The FANC has already published a report in 2013 showing that there were problems with concrete rot. We note, however, that nothing has been done about this. You could have known this, as we know it. Have you been in contact with Electrabel yourself? Electrabel is not the most reliable partner in this area. The restart date of Tihange 3 has also been moved several times. Have you shown caution and taken into account the available information, in order to have doubts about certain information provided by Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u40	Mr Peeters, I have a lot of questions to ask about the announcement you made on 17 August and the calculation you made to come to the conclusion that there is no need for a strategic reserve. Like many observers, I ask myself these questions. I went back to the documents you had submitted for consultation in April and May. When I read these documents, I understood better. In your assumptions, you use an unscheduled unavailability of 3.6% of nuclear power plants. In previous years, we have been far beyond that figure. In 2016, we were at 20%. In 2015, we stood at 50% and in 2014, at 38%. It is all the more incomprehensible, if not irresponsible, that in the context of the public consultation, an actor, Mr Woitrin, not to mention him, called on you. It's on the site, in the replicas. He says this, which is repeated today: "The random and declining availability of our nuclear fleet is not properly taken into account in your assumptions." Excuse me, but when we look at what has happened in recent years, we can't blame him. Your answer to this remark is totally laconic and you do not change anything later. You rely on unrealistic assumptions about the availability of the nuclear power plant. How do you explain this 3.5% or 3.6%? I do not understand that these figures are taken as a basis for what has happened in recent years. Unfortunately, the news that followed gave Mr Woitrin reason. How do you explain this figure at the time? I have other questions, but I'll book them for later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u41	Mr President, I would like to put two or three questions to our interlocutor in Elia, in addition to the questions of my colleagues. Mr Peeters d'Electrabel announced talks for the power plants. In the end, it is clear that the time limits for reopening are still postponing. Between the time of the decision to conduct the interview on that date and the reopening of the interview, there is still a delay. It's the story that shows it. I would like to know whether you have taken this into account in the calculations, in particular in the calculation to establish the strategic reserve required for the winter 2018-2019. If so, how? With what percentage of booking? Mr Peeters, I would like to ask you a second question. The CREG says that Elia sometimes lacks transparency and that it could be clearer in the mathematical models used for the transfer of all data. I would like to know why this transfer of studies does not take place systematically. Is there an unavailability for operators to speak clearly about the system or are they market secrets? In any case, I would like to know why there is not always a common speech to Elia? Moreover, the unavailability for November and subsequent months is mentioned. But do we already know how to be more precise at the moment? We are talking about the month of November, which runs between November 1 and November 30. But can we already be more precise about these unavailabilitys as we move forward in time? I would also like you to be able to respond to the comments made by CREG, in particular with regard to REMIT and the application of this European regulation, including loop flows.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u42	Mr President, I would like to ask two questions. The first relates also to the criticism made by CREG of Elias. This question has two levels. First of all, there is the answer that can be expected on the merits of the case. So, as far as France is concerned, what are the elements available to you and which make it possible to think about an export or imports from France? What data do you have in this regard? On the form, the non-transparency of your analyses raises questions. Indeed, Elia is still a publicly traded company with a series of major shareholders including billionaire Fernand Huts of Katoen Natie. Does non-transparency result from the desire to keep secrets because the profitability of the company depends on it? If that were the case, that would raise the question in the sense that, given the essential role you play in providing electricity, I would find it harmful that there is a non-transparency motivated by such considerations. Second question. In case of market shortages, do you say – which is a sibyllin way of talking about Electrabel's primary responsibility – is it possible, rather than undoing households, to target industry, large companies? The damage is greater for households that are in a more precarious situation. How could this be done? Should this be done through agreements with companies, which would involve compensation? Or can we make a unilateral decision without compensation? Since there are unilateral decisions with regard to households, I think it must be possible to do so vis-à-vis industry! I would like your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank the various speakers and those who did not get a question. As far as Elijah is concerned, I would like to mention two things. Firstly, Mr Peeters, like other colleagues, I have a very difficult time with Elijah's opinion on 17 August, the opinion which the Minister is calling for today to minimize her own responsibility. I honestly do not understand that an actor with so much ground knowledge can judge on 17 August that there is no need for a strategic reserve. You have departed from a naive belief in the availability of nuclear power stations. That is also apparent from the figures. Perhaps you have made the necessary contacts and you have been given false information, but I suspect that there has been too little communication, or that you have not been following things too closely. The concrete problems were known at that time. So I honestly do not understand why you advised on 17 August not to create a strategic reserve. Secondly, I note in general that the various actors came here today to explain what they are not responsible for. That was the common thread through all the presentations. You did the same, Mr Saegeman. You've spent a lot of your time explaining what you're not responsible for. Elia did, too. The CREG has done the same. So does the Minister. Right now, it's not important what you're not responsible for. At the moment, what we stand for together and how we will solve this is important. To be honest, I do not understand why our regulator and our network operator dare to present today a presentation in which they depart from different import principles, two weeks after the outbreak of the crisis. I don't understand. My question to you, and later to the CREG, is: what is your answer to the criticism of the CREG? Why don't you guys just fix it? Why don't you guys just sit around the table? Why do you come here today with presentations departing from other premises, when we need every megawatt? Everyone says we need every megawatt, but everyone's starting from different numbers. Honestly, I don't understand. I see a responsibility for this with everyone, including Elijah.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u44	Mr Peeters, this is a first batch of a dozen interventions. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u45	Mr President, thank you. There are a lot of questions about interconnections, I will answer them in a grouped way. I think there is a lot of confusion about this interconnection. Firstly, Elia's models should not be based on guaranteed import capacity. Import capacity is modelled on a scale of 21 countries around which a probabilistic model is made. Import capacity will also depend on the availability of energy in those other countries. So there's a variable in the model. We have the physical capacity, the amount that we can import over a line, on the other hand, certainly during the winter period the question arises as to whether that capacity is actually available. The calculation to be made for this purpose is required by law and we have been applying it correctly for several years. Our fellow TSOs carry out these calculations in the same way. These are probabilistic calculations, which means that we are assuming 30 years of climate change, an expected and unexpected availability and a number of power stations. Based on these assumptions, we calculate whether we can keep the network stable under all circumstances. That way a winter is prepared. At the time of these calculations, therefore, we cannot take into account the real state of winter, as it is not yet known. After all, no one can tell us what temperatures we will get in January or February and what about the availability of the nuclear park in France, which I refer to last year's situation. A probabilistic model serves to ensure that we have the means to get through the winter properly, so that we do not need the exit plan as a means of emergency in the event of a lack of capacity. In our model, therefore, imports are not input, because we model 21 countries together, on which probabilistic calculations are made, which we simulate 600 times, which is why these calculations take 24 hours. In addition, there is, of course, the debate on the real import capacity available from France. I can say the following about this analysis. Yesterday we received an e-mail from half a page explaining to us what assessment is being made on the basis of preliminary calculations in France. The calculations run through us, but I must disappoint anyone who thinks that we have recalculated everything in the middle of this crisis on the basis of the model that has been known to us since yesterday, because it cannot be done that quickly. Maybe the results are already there this afternoon, but that is actually another question. There are two questions next to each other, namely, how do we get through November and December, versus, we have all the means at our disposal to get through winter in a normal way, as required by law. For us, it is very good news that France is currently claiming availability and will carry out additional calculations, which will give us 1 000 megawatts. From the moment we import effectively from France through the southern border of our country, our country's net import capacity has been greatly reduced, which is an important factor to take into account. In the operational calculations, of which you have seen the schema in the import graphs, you can find that. It is therefore a question of different calculations. In one case, a shorter horizon is being worked and reality can be taken into account; in the other case, calculations for the winter will be made in one year, and the transport company responsible for the balance will have the means to safeguard that balance in all possible circumstances that we can imagine. I would like to dwell on that LOLE 3 and LOLE 20, which people are asking whether it is too strict or not strict enough. When we came to defend ourselves last time, we had been too strict and the cost of the strategic reserve was too high. I can tell you that there is not a year for Elijah..... I have been here for three years now................................................................................................................................................... Why is that? That's just because this country hasn't been investing in additional capacity for years. That is, of course, where there is some uncertainty in the system. On the other hand, there has been an effective increase in import capacity and we can ensure at many more times that imports will ensure this compensation. That question is different from whether we think it will all work out in November and whether, under the law, we have all the means at our disposal in all circumstances. Those are two different questions, and there will also be a different answer to those two questions. I'm just talking about the 3.6 in the probabilistic calculation. Let me briefly summarize what is happening in the probabilistic calculation. We take a margin as the Planning Bureau does, No. 1. That is to say, we are assuming the planned inaccessibility and, on top of that, we consider one large entity to be unavailable. On top of that, on the basis of that 3.6 unplanned unavailability, we are going to draw the entire park of production capacity. This therefore ensures that we can be normally robust in all circumstances. I leave it to Mr Saegeman to make the difference between planned and unplanned availability of nuclear power stations. With the latest calculations we made, the 3.6 % for unscheduled availability is still reasonably on schedule. I think we should make that distinction if we're going to make those calculations. I think some interesting slopes have been effectively laid down by our regulator. We're gonna take a look at those slopes, of course. They will also be taken with us and we will continue to calculate them. I leave the question of the feasibility of these slopes in the middle at the moment. I think they need to be studied seriously. It's not the first time we've talked about loop flows. Everyone knows that this is a very complex political discussion. This is about agreements between Member States of Europe. If the CREG insists that this can be resolved in the coming month, we will only applaud. I think sometimes it's a little more complex to make these kind of agreements, but if we could, we'd definitely take it with us. The point of the values in the systems was raised by Elijah two years ago. We have lobbied very heavily to include winter values in the networks. There's been a problem with Amprion and TenneT. I believe that we have always supported this point. I just can't decide today if they're working with summer values again. The local regulator needs to check this out. If the CREG contacts BnetzA, they can check. I believe that, after the agreements made in recent years, the TSOs comply with that directive. In this sense, the question arises as to whether this will really make a difference. So much for the additional measures. As for the difference in modelling. I believe that there is a great deal of exchange between us and the regulator. There are a lot of meetings organized. A lot of results are shared. Of course, as we have to advise him, the Minister always gets the scoop and we only communicate afterwards. I believe that there are two discussions here. On the one hand, are we transparent and are the data available? On the other hand, there is the great desire of the regulator to transfer the dynamic model, which is permanently improved together with other TSOs, to their premises so that they can carry out their own calculations. We have a great deal of restraint in this matter. As you can see, everyone has their own hypotheses. None of the attendees have whatever Elia has, namely an operational responsibility and an exchange with the operational teams. It's pretty easy to change some numbers and then come to conclusions on what's all possible. We take the responsibility to make it happen, and I believe that this means a very big difference in dealing with a particular model. We do not want teachers who prove on the basis of our model that our calculations must be based on a different hypothesis. We want to discuss the hypotheses with great pleasure and transparency. We want to enter into the debate with a great deal of transparency. This is already happening in the task force. However, I believe that there is a big difference between someone who has ultimate responsibility for balance and someone who runs the models. With us, these two departments are in constant discussion. They look at where there are problems on the network and impersonate reality, such as the nuclear power plants last year and the congestion problems caused by too much wind input in Europe. This is a very dynamic fact. Transferring a model so that someone can adjust parameters on the basis of certain data, which were not checked on the operational side, does not seem to me to be doing much. I insist that this is a very complex model. We also have many discussions with the Planning Bureau on this subject. We do not always have the same figures, but the final conclusions, which are relevant for decision-making, almost always converge. We may be able to reach that decision by another way, but that is why I think it is right that different models should be used. This gives robustness to the decisions we take in the end. I do not recall that, during my period as CEO, we had persistent differences of opinion on the conclusions to be drawn. As far as the number of hours is concerned, today we are looking at the operational planning for the month of November. We will therefore be able to look effectively at how many hours we think the situation will be tense, still with the delta of the weather forecasts and unexpected events that may occur on the network. In fact, it is not possible to give a ruling for the months of January and February, because there is considerable uncertainty about the effective availability of power stations and lines and about the climatic conditions. As I told you when we presented the long-term study, in France every degree below zero accounts for about 2.2 gigawatts of additional capacity at the moment. If the temperature drops, one can very quickly switch from exporter to importer in France, with a direct impact on the import capacity that remains for our country. Let me come back to the agenda on REMIT. REMIT rules are there for a reason: there must be transparency vis-à-vis the various actors, traders, suppliers, producers and that information must come at the same time for everyone. It is very good that this transparency platform exists. Besides that platform we do not have a direct exchange with ENGIE. It always, rightly, refers us to REMIT. Should it have certain information, it should have just put it on REMIT. If there are uncertainties, information on this should be requested through the Minister, according to a new scenario to be run, which happens at the appropriate time. It happens once that the Minister asks for special scenarios to be calculated and to see if we are robust enough for certain situations. I am going back to the reality we ended up in ten days ago. It's an extremely exceptional circumstance. I do not think anyone would have believed us if we had said on 17 August that ENGIE is planning an availability of 4 gigawatts out of five of the seven power stations, and we assumed that only one power station will run in November. People would say, "Here he goes again, he wants bigger margins to run his own operation and that costs strategic reserve to the people." When one looks at the order of magnitude, the discussion about the strategic reserve disappears into nothing compared to the situation we are facing. We need to see 750 megawatts further confirmed, which we are evaluating today. I think this quantity is about the maximum available in this country. We can have some diesel groups from abroad brought in and there may still be an emergency group on the left or right. But it doesn't add up anymore. I do not think this conclusion is inconsistent with what we have said in the past. If we take out all the nuclear facilities, we're gonna need 3.6 gigawatts of new gas. We've got everything out in November, except for one gigawatt of nuclear energy. You can make the bill yourself. It should be 2.6. With a better import situation and a number of other measures that have been taken in the meantime, we can see that at that time there is a gap of 1.6 and that the measures recently taken go further. In the meantime, are there any discussions on further measures? That's right. The Minister has started a task force. The people sitting around the table are also all part of this task force. In it, all possible options are thoroughly evaluated, in which everyone plays their part. The representatives of ENGIE have come to our office and we have discussed with them a number of slopes that they now need to develop further. I can only note with joy that a result has already been achieved on Tihange 1, COO 5 and Rodenhuize 4. I hope that we will be able to report good news in the coming days before January 2019. I also realise that the matter is complex and that this kind of planning cannot be resolved in one or two days. Are we not responsible for this country's security of supply? No. You can look at Rule 157 of the technical regulation, where Elijah is responsible for the balance on the basis of the resources made available to them. If these resources are insufficient, the cut-off is part of these resources. For example, it is described in concrete terms in the technical regulations. Of course, we are making every effort to have sufficient resources available so that we do not have to deal with a cut-off plan, given the significant economic damage that this could cause. Finally, was asked about evolution. Like every year, we are further strengthening our network. We provide more import capacity. The Nemo Link cable will be available next winter. That gives an equivalent of 1 gigawatt on the market. As you can see in our long-term studies, this additional interconnection has a very important impact. This is a steerable interconnection, which we can make work in our direction in case of emergency. This therefore creates additional security of supply. However, I once again make a distinction between normal interconnections and HBDC interconnections. A normal interconnection is built because of its positive economic impact for the country as a whole. The additional security of liver, which it offers, is a derivative of that. So they're built from the point of view of welfare. We say that if we build it, there will be a very short payback period for our country, because these connections create convergence with prices abroad. However, such connections are not specifically built to replace power plants in a country in the context of security of supply. That is what you saw in the study that we published in November. That is why we came here last December. We've always said it's an en-and-story. Interconnections make a limited contribution to the adequacy and are important in the operational process. They also ensure that we will have price convergence. However, gas plants will have to be built if we have to step out of nuclear capacity. You can translate that as an en-en-story of local capacity and interconnections, even on the future market after the Energy Week or the energy transition, when we talk about Europe as a whole. Can we also selectively switch off in another way? That is a question of political order. Elia's input here is to answer the question of what posts we can manage to get a total of 500 to 700 megawatts of switching capacity to keep our network under control. However, the underlying question of who should be given priority is a political question. That's how it's solved politically in the past. We believe that it is a good thing that this remains a political question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u46	Do colleagues wish to speak on a reply or on other questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u47	Mr President, I have a supplementary question on production possibilities. I added the figures for January 2013 when we were also tight, or at least that was announced. I've been looking at how we've handled energy storage. I'm talking specifically about Coo. I see that during the whole month of January 2013 people were quite consistent: pumping at night and producing during the day. Depending on the need, this became: especially in the morning, especially in the evening or a combination of both, where one always distributes the same amount of energy but throughout the day. One possible think path I've heard is this one. Is there any possibility, between the morning peak and the evening peak, of additional pumping between the two generation moments at Coo, when there is energy on the market and there is interconnection capacity so that the capacity available in the evening pits and the morning peaks can be increased? After all, we know that Coo has a total capacity of about 1 160 megawatts for five hours. If one does not just pump at night one might be able to pull more out of that. Is that a piste that Elijah's already watched? Can this still be investigated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u48	Mr Peeters, I'm coming back to you because I don't feel like I really had an answer to my questions. You say you take responsibility for the model but what about the responsibility for security of supply? In my view, it is the law that prevails and the law says that you must ensure security of supply. As far as import capacity is concerned, I would have preferred to have a more concrete response to the use of all these import capacities. Moreover, what are you thinking about for an increased dialogue with producers but also with all the stakeholders, because I understood that there were still problems with the CREG?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u49	Mr President, I come back to this question of 3.6%. I'm so sorry. You say that you rely on the figures provided by ENGIE Electrabel but you still have a knowledge of what has happened in recent years beyond the information given to the market or not by ENGIE Electrabel! You must also rely on what actually happened rather than on the information given by ENGIE Electrabel. I'll explain. Actually, that's the whole problem with the system. The minister is based on Elia. Elia is based on Electrabel. Electrabel does what she wants. She does what she wants because between the planned and the unplanned, you also sent the ball back to Electrabel. How can one explain that a stop that happens in the morning is announced as planned for the same day? It's obviously impossible! Conversely, unplanned stops become planned at the time of their first extension. It doesn't hold up the way for statistics at a later stage, but you know that! I do not let you know that this figure is not credible in terms of solidity. I still don't make you discover that element? But you still take 3.6%! In fact – I conclude on this – why, last year, in your work on the calculation of the strategic reserve, did you take as the worst assumption that two nuclear power plants were shut down and that here you only took one? Why, two or three years ago, did you take that of three nuclear power plants when there is only one here in the worst-case scenario? I do not understand, when the information on the reality of nuclear power plants is no better today than it was one, two or three years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u50	Mr President, Mr Peeters, I have not received an answer to my question as to whether there has been contact with the FANC. The FANC knew about and writes in his reports about problems with concrete rot. If you had been in contact with the FANC, you should have known that the information you received from Electrabel was not entirely reliable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u51	Mr Peeters, with regard to the priority relief that could be imposed on industrial players, you say that this is a political decision. I can hear it well, and that was implicit in my question. My question was, in fact, about the legal and technical possibilities in this area. I wish I had some light on that from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u52	Mr President, a number of important questions were asked by colleagues about the lack of consultation. Mr Peeters, I think there are two possibilities. Either Elia has the responsibility to provide advice, but this includes a responsibility to inform herself, not only with ENGIE Electrabel but also with the FANC. Either Elia doesn't take that responsibility to advise on the strategic reserve. It's either one or the other. That order has been assigned to Elia, and then Elijah must carry it out in full. That brings me to the question whether you are the asking party to carry out the task of advising as a market participant on the need to create a strategic reserve or not? If you are a requesting party, this obviously includes the obligation to inform you properly, and then it was enough to follow the parliamentary debate to know the problems of nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u53	Mr President, there was a question about Coo. Coo is included in the models. Coo is modelled in the way it participates in the market or is modelled when it is in Elia's reserves. In this sense, the effects based on the models that simulate market operation will normally have the same result, as a market actor will work in function of the moment when he can make money, and that is at peak hours. One could see if this comes with the sourcing of strategic reserve, but ultimately it is an operational entity that has many more functionalities in the day-to-day management of the system. In this sense, Coo's element is included on the market side. Then I come to the questions relating to the model and the import capacity. It is a probabilistic model for all power stations in 21 countries, i.e. for the entire 360KV and 220KV networks, with scenarios looking at how flows are going in Europe. It is the same models that are used today, every time the crossborder capacity is given to the market. That's a pretty technical calculation. Before the market is calculated, the availability of capacity between the different borders is always assessed. It is, of course, the CREG, which has to be clear about part of the flow debate. That is a serious discussion for our country. We certainly need to take our time. In the modelling of course one assumes that there is not only a crossborder capacity, but that there is also energy on those lines and that it is in the right direction at that time. It is therefore very important that we distinguish between a statistical model, which is calculated to see whether Elijah has the means to ensure balance at any time in the coming winter and whether strategic reserves should be created if they are not. That is what we are doing in the first phase. In this way, we also advise the Minister. If that is not enough, the Minister will also have to take additional measures. Eventually, the Minister takes the decisions concerning the strategic reserve on the basis of not only our opinions, but also those of the CREG and the Planning Bureau. She can inform herself as she likes. However, I believe that our opinion has an important role to play in this. Mr Nollet, you asked a question about the 3.6 %. I still don't think you've fully understood how our model works. Our model assumes that we fully model the planned maintenance periods. They are also known in the system at that time. In addition, we include the complete, the supplementary, the historical, the extra and the unplanned availability of all types of power stations in the different scenarios. They will then be run and we will see whether we can keep the network stable in all these circumstances on a probabilistic basis, except for three hours or twenty hours. That's how the calculation goes. Besides, for this calculation, the procedures where we need to get information, how we should take that information, what the reference of that information is, are pretty well described in the law, which we also implement in that way. I think more can certainly be communicated. There are discussions with the FANC on a regular basis, but I think that the FANC will always make the same remark: it is not up to the FANC to work out the planning or to make statements about it. The operator must do so, whereas the Agency is responsible for checking whether or not the plant can start. It is the operator responsible for restarting in safe conditions. I think my neighbor here on the right can tell me more about that. I think it is also right, because the owner of a capacity ultimately has the best information that will be recorded on REMIT. If, as at present, there are exceptional circumstances, then I can only take note of them today. I'm not a specialist in concrete rot. I don't have access to those sites either. I also think it would be wrong that, on the basis of a newspaper article or a publication of the FANC on a website, I should make a better assessment than the operator who organizes the works, knows the planning, knows the interaction with the suppliers and conducts the discussions with the FANC itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u54	Mr Peeters, with all due respect, I have two serious reservations. Firstly, concrete practice shows that there is regular late updating of the maintenance calendar. That is a first important reason not to have blind faith in the operator. Secondly, apart from the practical experience, it is crazy to base themselves entirely on that and actually give Electrabel a free job. The FANC does the same, because it comes with a similar reasoning, namely that it does not judge the calendar, but only takes note of it. The reality is that our security of supply is a playball of ENGIE Electrabel, either consciously or out of ignorance, but the result is the same. I don't understand why you're simply taking note of information shared with you. That is a far too passive attitude in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u55	I do not agree with that, Mr Calvo. I'll tell you why. With the information we have today, could we have estimated the situation in August and then turned off the alarm? Then we could have said:source all the strategic reserve that is in the market and make sure that the exit plan is ready. That is the reality when there is only one nuclear power station available in this country. You can read this in all the reports we have written about it, which you can read in all the communications that Elijah makes about it. There are enough studies by Elia that make it clear that nuclear power plants are needed today for the stability of the system and that the government will have to take action if it wants to get out of nuclear power in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u56	That's just a reason to...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u57	The argument that we should know on the basis of a newspaper article on concrete rot that four additional nuclear power stations will become unavailable after 17 August is a bit out of line. I think you know that yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u58	But you had the experience of previous years as well as Minister Jambon's answers to all my parliamentary questions. You have information other than that simply given by Electrabel. Stop relying exclusively on what Electrabel provides! And it's the same for CREG!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u59	We are taking the margins in this respect. We take one additional entity and on top of that we take away a number of capacities statistically from the models. Apparently, you have a new calculation model, where you'll do better after the facts. The models are every time after the facts...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u60	Model based on the average absences of the last five years! In 2015, the rate of absenteeism was 50%. In 2016, it ranged from 20 to 22 per cent. Take this into consideration and, in view of these statistics, also take a margin! It is not difficult to take account of what has happened in recent years!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u61	I would remind you that we calculated the strategic reserve last time. We have come here twice to explain why our strategic reserve was so expensive. We were too careful back then. An ex-post discussion on the facts that we know today is a little easier than an ex-ante discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u62	I'm sorry to interrupt, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u63	Mr. Calvo, wait! You don't have the floor. I'd like Mr. Peeters to finish. Secondly, parliamentarians will be entitled to a final reply. Everyone will have an opportunity to speak. I would like us to move forward in the debate. Indeed, we have one hour left to hear from the other speakers. I propose that Mr Peeters finish, after which the groups who wish to do so will be able to make a final reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u64	Mr President, we use the legal means at our disposal to obtain information. Today we are not allowed any other means. Anyone who, after the facts, thinks that the outcome would have enabled him to determine the statistics beforehand, namely that we should model a delta of four power stations each year, comes to the conclusion that we should no longer model, that we should decide each year that we should create a maximum strategic reserve and that we should keep the switch-off plan in place. That is not realistic and is no way to deal with it. It's an exceptional circumstance. Everyone recognizes that, too. In September four additional power stations were shut down in a short time, taking into account one additional power station that is failing. It's just an exceptional circumstance. Otherwise, we can't put up with it. If you have other elements of information about this, we should ask whether there was anyone in the system who should have provided information. As I say, the FANC says today that it cannot provide information on this because it belongs to the operator, while on the other hand the operator says that all the information he has is on REMIT. The REMIT scheme is sufficiently strict that, if there are problems there, they will also bear the consequences, because that immediately amounts to market manipulation. If that's what you're suggesting, it's on your account, but I don't have to assume that the other parties are wrong about the legal obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to those of you who wish to speak for the last time for a minute. We will then turn to the next guest for questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u66	Mr President, we are at the heart of the problem. We'll see what's going on with the other operators. Indeed, everything is based on the reliability of the information given by Electrabel. No one questions this information, whereas the feedback from previous years shows that it is unreliable. That's the heart of the problem. The minister trusts Elia. Elia trusts Electrabel. The CREG does not check or validate the numbers of Electrabel. We are facing a real governance problem. The same applies to AFCN. When I ask Minister Jambon questions, he says it's not their job. So no one does their job except Electrabel who knows when to give the information or not. So I wonder about that. You're right, Mr. Peeters, we need to interview the operator, what I'm going to do. I will, of course, question him, as you have done, about the information he discloses or not about what is or is not planned. You were obviously right in saying that one day we would have to look at the issue. When you see what is planned and what is not the next day, you can say that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u67	Mr President, I would like to ask one last question. Was Elia aware of the "beton" problem in the Electrabel power plants? Was she for some time or did she learn it at the same time as the general public?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u68	The information about the concrete rot has been made public. The same information was published by the FANC on its website. I don't think it's up to Elia to evaluate the effects of the concrete rot. Since that evaluation is about nuclear safety, the FANC has to do it. The operator must, together with the FANC, assess its impact on its planning. Such planning must then be correctly communicated to the REMIT as required by the law. If there are any clues, I think this can be communicated to the Minister. The Minister could ask us, without having the market information, to calculate certain scenarios in addition. I believe that this is the only way, on the one hand, to safeguard market forces and, on the other hand, to ensure that everyone plays their role correctly, in particular the FANC for nuclear safety and we make calculations based on correct information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u69	I guess you didn't have the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u70	Effective. I have explained to you what information we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u71	I thank Mr Peeters for his participation in this difficult exercise. He gave information. Exchanges took place. That was the point. The third invited body is ENGIE Electrabel Are there any colleagues who have questions for Mr Saegeman?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u72	Mr President, it is of course still a difficult matter to deal with. The big question is how we can see this evolving in the future and how we can ensure that these plants remain operational. At the same time, I also think it is important to know when certain plants will become operational again. I'm thinking about Target 1 and 2. Are there any assessments to be made today? What measures are being taken to enable these plants to become operational again? After all, this changes the entire model with which Elijah then starts working. If we are going to have any delay tomorrow, either on the left or on the right, then it is up to us to start counting back and taking action again. We call for the necessary attention to be paid to this. We would like to know how this is being handled. I asked Elia a question about Coo. I'm not gonna let this go right now. I would like to know from you how this works. You are a market player but offer roughly only 5 800 megawatts a day. If you no longer offer, because there is no more pumping at night, this can of course make a difference. I'd like to know if this is technically possible. Have you checked this out yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u73	At last week's Economy Committee, the minister spoke hard enough to ENGIE Electrabel: "An operator who has the upper hand on the possibility of organising his work, as recommended by AFCN, lets himself go to start the work with any surprises he might encounter in a period that will lengthen - the winter period - while he is a dominant operator". That's what the minister said last week, sitting in your seat. In short, she blames you very clearly for the way in which you conduct your interviews and inspections, adding: "No information has been given to me". We are therefore still in the process of transmitting information, of which we have also spoken with Elia. It also notes on the part of ENGIE Electrabel "a chronic under-investment in safety". My questions are as follows. Did you fail in your way of organizing the interviews and inspections of nuclear power plants? Have you failed in your communication to the federal government and the FANC? Did Mrs Marghem have the means to know the risks of unavailability before 21 September? Finally, is it correct that you do not guarantee, in the absence of regular investments, the safety of nuclear power plants? Secondly, to hear the CREG, price is at the heart of our discussions, both among households and SMEs and among the major industrialists. The minister told the press that ENGIE Electrabel should compensate consumers. My question will be simple: are you willing to do so? In addition, the Minister believes that you are responsible for the shortage in the Belgian market and, consequently, for the resulting price increase. Anyway, what do you have to answer him?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u74	Mr President, first of all, it is clear that we are still in a crisis situation. The big question remains whether it occurred suddenly or was predictable. ENGIE is the energy partner par excellence who had all the information and could very well have estimated the situation. I still find it odd that two days after the Minister announced the strategic reserve at zero, the revision of Objective 1 and Objective 2 was extended. I address myself to the people of ENGIE Electrabel. You knew perfectly the procedure of the strategic reserve. You would have seen that date coming, wouldn't you? Couldn't you have reported things sooner? Perhaps we would not have ended up in the present situation. It all seems unbelievable. Now all sorts of speculations are being made to push the price up and make a profit. The craziest stories go around. That is because it is so hallucinatory that, two days after the Minister announced such news, the revisions are suddenly postponed. That's very odd. According to one, it was not allowed under the REMIT rule, according to the other, the information was not available. Lessons must be learned from this in order to prevent it from happening in the future. Secondly, the problem of concrete rot has obviously not surfaced overnight either. What has not really been addressed here is the question of whether this problem also arises in other nuclear power stations in other countries. Now, of course, it is noted that the bunkers must be restored. Nuclear safety is, of course, the top priority, and that must certainly not be compromised. The problem is, however, that the bunkers no longer meet to withstand an aeroplane impact. I do not know whether other methods have been considered, which certainly preserve nuclear safety, but the plant should not be shut down and the bunker certainly meets the requirements to withstand an aeroplane impact. Maybe there are other methods. Were those slopes examined or not? I would have liked an answer to that question. Thirdly, you said that you will do everything in your power to serve customers as much as possible, which is obvious, of course. You mention the Vilvoorde plant. Can you explain exactly when it will be launched? What other capacity do you have in your wallet? Finally, this is something that I still find strange. After hearing all the stories here, I notice that different import figures are still used. That could have an explanation. Everyone, however, continues to work in their niche. There's no cooperation. We are now in a crisis situation, which, fortunately, is less than the figures we received last week. We still have a deficit of 700 to 900 megawatts. I would like to launch the call for everyone to come out of their booths, for all the bulkheads to be removed and for us all to find a solution together to keep the lamp on. That is the ultimate objective. Of course, the minister has to be there. Every energy player and anyone who plays a role in our energy landscape must now do their utmost to use every megawatt we can deploy. After all, we absolutely want the lamp to stay on. Everyone has their responsibility in this matter. Now, above all, we must work together to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u75	Mr President, some of my questions have already been asked, including the unfortunate timing and the guarantee that power stations will also be operating effectively in December. I have an additional question about the concrete rot, or the concrete attack by steam. Apparently it's not a concrete rot. Is it true that the backup system here in Belgium is protected in this way, whereas in France it is not? Did I get that right? Is there any chance of us closing down a power station and importing nuclear power from France from a power station that is not similarly secure? Am I saying it that well?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u76	Mr President, I have two questions for Mr Saegeman. Mr Saegeman, the first one seems to me to be the most crucial, namely why was the problem of concrete rot not better monitored? There are reports from the 2013 FANC showing that problems with concrete rot were already reported in 2007, for example the concrete rot of Tihange 2. On the website of the FANC we read the following post of 19 September: "Indications of aging of the concrete in Tihange 2 were already established during previous inspections, which had already been foreseen, even before the most recent inspections in August." In short, they knew for some time that there were 2 problems with Tihange of concrete rot. Repair works were already planned. Why were they not carried out earlier, for example at the beginning of this year or in the summer? Why did it have to wait until the most difficult time, namely winter? With regard to Objective 3, I also recall that your spokesperson stated in De Seventh Dag that a first investigation into concrete rot was started in 2016 and that only in October 2017 a formal alarm went off. However, I have just referred to studies carried out by the FANC in 2013, which point to these problems. Why wait so long and why let everything come together? I would like to hear more from you, Mr Saegeman. Secondly, I have just heard you say that REMIT does not allow you to provide privileged information to one market player. The question is what the definition of a market player is. For me, the Federal Administration of Energy is not a market player. So I ask you when you have informed the Federal Energy Administration about the problems of concrete rot. If you had done so earlier, I cannot understand why the Minister decided in August not to set up a strategic reserve. Did you inform the Federal Administration of Energy before August 17 about these problems? If so, why do you think the Minister did not take this into account? If no, why didn't you provide that information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u77	Mr Saegeman, you have devoted a great deal of time, even more than the other speakers, to explaining why this is not part of your task. For me, there is no doubt that if you sign a contract with your customers, citizens and SMEs, it is of course your core task to ensure that there is electricity. If your customers pay a month late, you will be there as the chickens to send a reminder. Then I think today is high time to accept your responsibility for 100 %. Some of these things have irritated me quite a bit and gave me the impression that it has not yet fully understood the extent of the responsibility of ENGIE Electrabel in this matter. Together with other colleagues, I am asking a lot of questions about the timing of the adjustment of the maintenance work. You know when the Minister will have to decide on the strategic reserve. Why are you waiting to share that information until she has made that decision? You are not doing it, as colleagues think, entirely by accident two days later. I also noticed the passage quoted by Mr Van der Maelen. I believe you said that you hesitated or did not find it so obvious to make information available to another market player. Am I to understand that you are referring to the provision of information for Elijah? That is, however, very crucial. If you deliberately hesitate and delay making that information available to the other market participant, Elijah, who considers it necessary to give an opinion on the strategic reserve, then there is still a huge problem. It almost seems like you don't want to share your information with Elia. Mr Peeters, that gives me a little more understanding of your position than before. No one is really responsible for the right information and Mr Saegeman apparently does not want to share his information with others. So, Mr Sageman, with ENGIE, you are responsible for this whole situation. You almost say that you have been waiting for information to be shared until decisions have been taken on the strategic reserve. I'd like you to explain that sufficiently. My second question concerns the legal investigation initiated by the Minister. The Minister has already started more investigations. Meanwhile, we read in the media that energy prices are rising. You have made a great deal of effort over the weekend to explain that this is incredibly difficult, but it is really difficult for your customers, for consumers, who face incredible additional costs. Are you prepared to make a compensation or otherwise accept your responsibility? What effort do you want to make with regard to the Belgian consumer? In the past, we have had to force something similar, which I remember from the time when I was a very young Member of Parliament. Mrs Dutordoir, then director, said here that prices could not be lower, after which we in Parliament decided a few things, and suddenly a drop in prices was possible, announced in a major press conference. Political pressure, if it depends on us, will therefore not disappear, but perhaps it would be more appropriate if you yourself were to come to terms with this issue as a major responsibility. I have a few more questions on nuclear safety, but I suspect my colleague Mr Nollet will also address them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u78	Mr President, Mr Saegeman, you said earlier that the anonymous testimony that relayed the existence of supposed alarming internal reports on concrete degradation was false information. But we know, on the other hand, that concrete has been involved for many years. An overwhelming internal relationship with Electrabel would not be surprising. Can you provide us with all internal reports on concrete? The question is simple and calls for a yes or no. ENGIE Electrabel is responsible, by the availability of nuclear power plants, for rising prices, at least in the short term. Everyone agrees on this point. Will ENGIE Electrabel cover this additional cost for consumers? You said that the unavailability of reactors cost you 600 million euros. Are you preparing us for the idea of an Electrobel bankruptcy? It is known that in May 2018, 1.6 billion euros went from Electrabel's caisses to ENGIE. There is concern that the latter may be undressing the former to avoid having to bear the cost of decommissioning plants, waste management, etc.; operations that cost tens of billions of euros. Is that what you're preparing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u79	Mr President, Mr Saegeman, last week in this chamber, the minister did not spare you. You answered that your goal was to produce energy safely. That is a good answer, but the minister was asking other questions, and I would like to know if you have any other answers to give, particularly with regard to the cost of energy to the consumer. I'll come back. Mr Saegeman, you also announced in your speech the possibility that the company might suffer losses. That's kind of bothering me! Because, if you announce losses, I do not understand how you cannot activate construction sites and, while remaining in the principle of nuclear safety, work faster by minimizing the unavailability of plants. So I wonder what the reality is: when you announce a re-opening of the power plant, most of the time there is an extension of the deadlines. Can you now guarantee your deadlines for the future, since winter is at our doorstep and the question arises in this way? What kind of commitment can you make? Two last questions: in relation to Doel 3, you referred to this anonymous testimony. I imagine you filed a complaint about that. I would like to know and, Doel 3 having to operate normally until 2022, can you guarantee the reality of this deadline in relation to a power plant, which is said to be becoming more and more obsolete? Finally, I agree with my colleagues in relation to your company's possible effort towards the Belgian consumer, whether it is an individual or a company, because it is because of the closure and upgrading of the plants that a number of unavailabilitys exist and the cost of energy increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u80	Mr.President, Mr.Saegeman, all your explanation today is to say, about Doel 3, that we discovered in October 2017 a huge problem and that everything started there. Do the photos you've seen, Mr. Saegeman, vaguely evoke anything to you? Were these photos from November 2016 – so I'm not talking here about October 2017 – known to you? Or would it be false? Since you speak, in the context of the testimony - and these photos are also part of it - of incoherent, falsified and other elements. Are these photos authentic? And are they not enough to involve action as early as November 2016 rather than pretending to have discovered everything in October 2017? Second, on January 4, 2017, the newspaper Le Soir publishes an interview excerpt of the boss of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency who criticizes ENGIE for its carelessness in maintenance. Do you remember ENGIE's answer at the beginning of the afternoon? No? "ENGIE Electrabel does not understand the criticisms of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency". Here is the answer ENGIE Electrabel gives to the criticism in early January. A few months later, in July, things are starting to go wrong and, here, another communication is given not by you but by Mr. Van Troeye, who said by displaying a slightly lower profile: "Indeed, this phenomenon of ageing has not been taken into account to its proper extent." I'd like to understand what's going on between the first communication that says to AFCN: "You're unlocking!- Is that what you're saying? What is this case? I don't understand the reproaches" and the second communication? As soon as this second communication was made in July and you acknowledge that you did not assess the danger to its proper extent and that you did not anticipate it sufficiently (cf. photos of 2016), are you ready to assume your responsibility? Since you recognize the error, you recognize your responsibility! And the impact is computable on prices. So it's up to you to take care of that impact. I'm very specific. I am not talking about the CO2 part or the gas increase part. I have heard the presentations and, obviously, part is related to CO2 and gas. But we can dehull. This is done in part in CREG models and in other models as well. But the part related to the error that you or, in any case, Mr. Van Troeye, acknowledged in this interview – this has been repeated regularly since then – I believe that you need to take it into account and reduce the competitive bill for all customers, individuals or SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u81	Mr. Saegeman, you've had a lot of questions. We look forward to hearing your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u82	Mr President, I will try to answer the questions in order. I'm an industrialist. I am in charge of an organization of more than 2 200 technicians and engineers, I personally think, the best in the country. We have a first priority, and that is nuclear safety. We are currently looking for solutions. We have said that we are in solidarity with Elijah and other players in the market to seek these solutions. Mr Wollants had a question about the measures being taken to ensure the availability of power stations. You also referred to Objective 1 and Objective 2. You also asked a question about Coo. For the record, I am not on the committee where I normally see some of you, but that is what nuclear safety is all about. Let us not forget that today there are two units operating on the network and that we have already taken special measures to ensure the security of operation of these installations. Right now, we have a unit on every nuclear site. If a nuclear power station were to fail there, that would be an additional problem, both for the grid and also, a nuclear site without running production is a situation that one should be able to manage industrially. We have already taken specific measures for the units running. That is important and must not be forgotten. For the other units, I can only refer to the information that is available and that we have also given about Objectives 1 and 2. As you know, we are spending a large part of the EUR 700 million this year in the context of life-cycle extensions. In total, these are more than 200 projects designed to strengthen the level of safety. Those are architectural works. That is the installation of new equipment, which must be tested. In any case, it was already planned that Objectives 1 and 2 would be unavailable for about six months this year and next year. That means that they are colossal works that require our attention at all times and certainly nuclear safety attention. In addition, as you know, we had a small leak at Objective 1. I would also point out that for this reason we had to make a REMIT change, because we anticipated that planned six-month stock at the time the leak occurred at Objective 1. Since then, this dossier has been examined, discussed and followed up with the FANC in dialogue and in full transparency. I can only say that on the basis of the information available to us today regarding the technical situation, the ongoing analyses, the data contained in REMIT today are our most likely data, the robust industrial scenario we are currently using. This was then on 10 and 31 December respectively for Objectives 1 and 2 respectively. As far as Coo's concerned, I owe you an apology. I'm only responsible for the nuclear power stations and Coo isn't one. I'll have to take your question with me. However, I am sure that my colleagues who run the classical and hydropower plants have been taken into account in my message regarding the development of solutions in the current plight. If we could, we might have done it by now. If that's still possible, we'll definitely look into it. Mrs Lalieux, you referred to the Minister's words: "let go", "surprises". I will answer your question on communication very clearly. Did we fail? No, we didn't fail in our communication. Communication is twofold in this case. I think we have sufficiently explained our obligations under this REMIT regulation. I make it clear that we have always respected, and will always respect, the regulations that are imposed on us. The dates we gave, when we gave them, were the most likely. We had at that time, and only at that time, the information we needed to do so. I understand that, for your part, you are connecting with other information that is already beyond our responsibilities when it comes to strategic reserve. But there's no connection to make. We are not dealing with the other elements. We look at the technical reality, sometimes very complex, taking into account the injunctions of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, to determine the dates we give. Then there is a second element of communication. This question comes back from time to time in an underlying way. I still allow myself to take stock. I refer to my slide with the time line, a little complicated – I apologize. You may not have been able to see him in detail. I come back to an important point in this chronology. In June 2018, it is already known that Doel 1 and Doel 2 will only be in operation at the beginning of October. This was already announced in April. Doel 3, normally, should be available during this period of October-November. Since April, the forecast for availability from August onwards is known from the market. This unit is therefore expected to be available in October and November. In June, we announce that Doel 4 will not be returned to service in October and November. We announce a new deadline, extended to 15 December. As for Tihange 1, we announce that it will be unavailable from 20 October to 28 November, because we have scheduled stop taxation. Stops are not easily moved. Nuclear safety requires us to replace nuclear fuel in the heart. In June, we announce that Tihange 2 will only be back on October 31. For Tihange 3, we announce a return on September 30th. I make this simple observation as a citizen, or as a consultant to REMIT: in June, Doel 3 was to run in October-November. Tihange 3, September 30th. It might be okay. All other units are either out or announced to return at the end of October. All of the press and six AFCN press releases, available on the Agency's public website since October 2017, indicate that the problem we face is not a small problem, particularly with concretes. It is clear that on several occasions this problem is indicated by the Agency. I fully respect the fact that she will have to have all the evidence to decide herself to allow the restart of these units. As a citizen, I wonder: in June, is that still the limit? Then we can discuss when winter starts, but my winter, yours and Elias's are different. For me, winter begins in December-January, but a priori, we don't know that. In the models, if in June we know that two units should be there, and the others are at the pâquerettes level in terms of the REMIT announcement, should we not take it into account? This is the element that relates to public communication. Your last question was: "Do you make regular investments? Is all this ultimately related to this?" No, it's not related, we make regular investments. We invest more than 200 million euros each year in the maintenance of our facilities. We are investing €1.2 billion in extending the life of Tihange 1 and Doel 1 and 2 plants. Today, you saw the photos. Doel 3 must stop in 2022. We continue to make the necessary investments to get this unit on track. This is what has been done in the meantime, in a safe manner, to set this unit in motion. We do everything possible and everything in our power; I will come to the technical aspects when I answer the other questions. But financially, we have always made regular investments, and we will always do so. Let me remind you that here we're talking about a building with a security function. This is not a failure of a nuclear turbine or boiler, we are talking about a safety issue. We wonder if, in the event of an air accident, given a certain level of damage in the rooms below the ceiling of this bunkerized building, this ceiling will hold. If it doesn't hold, it could make second-level security equipment on the lower floors of this building unavailable. When you lose the second level, it's a safety problem, if you lose the first level. But the first level, we must lose it also at the same time. So we're talking about nuclear safety requirements that are very high. It is not up to me to question this level of safety, especially in Belgium – I will talk about France and the other countries after – we have to respect it. It's written in our licence to operate and it's in the safety report. It is up to the Agency to finally decide whether we have brought all the evidence to ensure this nuclear safety. It's hard to explain and I'm frustrated. This is not a small concrete repair! To justify the holding of this building, concrete must be removed, measures must be taken, including acoustics, drilling into the concrete to check its mechanical hold, to measure its chemical components. An expert, either on our side or on the part of the Agency, will ask his questions about the chemical holding of concrete, for example. We must carry out these analyses to prove the robustness of this building. It's not just about fixing it. All of this must be taken into account in the process we are facing. Mrs Dierick, you speak of a curious assessment, but the word strange does not appear in my industrial dictionary in this context. We make announcements as soon as we have information. You referred to the announcement of the strategic reserve. I have just said in reply to Mr Wollants' question that there is an investigation into the reasons for the small leak in relation to Objectives 1 and 2. I have read several reactions, including from you, in which you express your concern about that leak. Well, we are conducting that investigation thoroughly and completely. If at some point we have new information in the file that has an impact on the planning I can often repeat this, then we will, in accordance with the REMIT regulation within the right time, put it on the REMIT transparency website, and we have done so. I realize it's a technical element, but I can only repeat that many have said it's not concrete rot. I brought the definition of Wikipedia. It is very easily accessible and readable. Concrete rot is a chemical process inside concrete, while here it is about the superficial degradation over the years, since the start of the installation, of a concrete layer of one and a half meters thick, highly armed with steel. Only its underlay is attacked by thermal shock due to steam blown into the premises at each start and stop of the installation. So it has nothing to do with concrete rot. Does that also occur in other countries? There are all kinds of concrete problems in both our and other power stations. That is all being inspected and monitored and we are doing the necessary repairs. Are there any other ways to protect us from a plane impact? This is difficult because the regulatory framework in Belgium on nuclear safety is deterministic with regard to our operating licence. This means that in the file describing our installation a roof is described as it is and the roof must also meet those criteria. We can then make proposals on this, too, in dialogue with the FANC, to see if the current situation of the roof is sufficiently robust. This is precisely what we need to do, because, among other things, we need to include in our calculation models the real parameters of the roof as regards, for example, the quality of the concrete and the state of the steel. So that's what we're doing. I heard the question about Vilvorde. Is everything being done in this regard and according to what timetable? To my knowledge, the REMIT was published and said – but I can be wrong – that the unit would be available from October 22 to March 31. You asked questions about the back-up system, especially if I understood what you were saying. What's the backup system? If the power plant is simply running, the first system of the power plant is a control room containing people and a whole series of safety devices that are installed in other buildings. The Belgian design of the 70s and 80s is so robust that unlike in other countries such as France, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the Scandinavian countries, operators were forced from the outset to set up a second system. What's in there? That is a second control room, which will take over completely when the first control room is lost, and a copy of all the safety devices needed to safely shut down and keep cooling the nuclear reactor. That's another building, outside the nuclear section, in reinforced concrete. After all, it must withstand all possible extreme, external events such as a very severe earthquake and an aeroplane impact. Will we import nuclear energy from France where there are no such bunkers? I'm referring to Elia for the exact flows. I believe that we will import polluting lignite and coal electricity from Germany. We hope that we will be able to import a lot of wind energy from Germany. We will probably also find that this is relatively limited, or perhaps not to introduce nuclear energy, and it is, as far as I know, less safe. However, I would not dare to say that, because all the power stations have probably taken measures to respond, in the event of an extreme event. After all, all regulators are strict, including the French ones. I come to Mr Van der Maelen's questions on the problem of concrete damage caused by thermal shocks and their follow-up. Even though neither the Minister nor the Directorate-General for Energy is an actor on the market, the regulation does not allow for inside information to be passed on to any party. We respect, as far as I know, the regulations in this area. Inspections have indeed taken place before. Other people have mentioned that as well. I never denied that, I thought I made that clear in my exhibit. It is about a very specific problem, a very specific phenomenon in a limited space of the power plant. That began, as I hope I have explained clearly to you, from the first exploitation. The phenomenon was followed, inspected, restored. All kinds of repair techniques have been tried and applied: thermal protection plates, certain coatings have been tried out. Again, there is also no copy-paste possible, the design of those buildings is different. I would remind everyone that the nuclear power plants were originally built by two different companies, namely EBES and Intercom, with two different study firms, Electrobel and Tractionel, and by different contractors, Flemish, Walloon and international, in two different places in the country. There are therefore no similarities between these plants and each unit must therefore be evaluated. That is why we were unable to draw general conclusions following the initial findings of Objective 3, because there is no copy-paste possible. Yes, we knew for some time that there was a thermal shock effect, but we have always inspected and treated it. And we have always been allowed to restart, because that bunker must be available according to the operating permit. If not, we cannot start. In October 2017, we came to the conclusion, to our great regret, that we were the first impacted................................................................................................................................................................................................. The rest of the impact on the agenda that comes later on the other units does not necessarily have a direct link to Objective 3. For example, we had only found surprisingly in mid-June that the vertical irons at Tihange 3 were not in the right place as was on the plans. Could we have seen that? It goes back to the construction period. Does that have an impact on the structural integrity of that building? That analysis is ongoing. Is that analysis simple? No, it's not simple at all. I can guarantee you that. I can tell you for hours, but I don't think we have enough time for that. Mr Calvo, I come to your questions. As far as the contract with the customer is concerned, it's hard for me to accept a comment. I have not only indicated in my exhibition what we are not responsible for. I also stressed that we put in place all kinds of solutions last week to help solve the problem. We've searched and found 750 megawatts. We've moved the revision of Tihange 1 a week, three and a half weeks before she has to start. If you think that is a simple matter, that is absolutely not the case. Calculations shall be made and confirmed, including by the FANC, with regard to the reloading of the nuclear fuel. That's nuclear safety matter. Moreover, the entire logistics of that yard must be brought forward for a week. If such a revision takes place with a planned standstill, we will double, if not triple, the number of staff. All this needs to be organized. Our teams took a week to confirm that this was possible. Then we changed REMIT immediately. We have also optimized our classic power stations at home and abroad in such a way that they can operate at maximum capacity. We've moved planned downtimes on other units that will also be on REMIT outside that period. All this needs to be technically investigated, and so has been done. Finally, we have also concluded a contract with the owners of the Vilvoorde plant in order to use that capacity. This has recently been achieved, and this has given rise to the new REMIT, from which you have just received the data. Our customers are very important. However, our primary responsibility always remains nuclear safety as a nuclear operator. We will assume our responsibility with regard to the supply of our customers. Our responsibility, as I said, is to balance our portfolio. What we have sold to our customers, we have to cover it, that we have to include with our own means of production or purchased electricity from other producers at home and abroad. I'll take the price question, if you'll allow me. You've asked a lot of questions about prices. I hope to have explained that prices are rising structurally as a result of the increase in fossil fuel prices and CO2. As one of the energy suppliers of the country can and will not deny that the structural increase must be reviewed under all current contracts. There are fixed and variable contracts, which are indexed. The indexing formulas are also checked by the CREG. However, I am not a specialist in this matter. However, this will be looked at in this context. I have tried to explain that the impact of the price increase on the short-term market as a result of our announcements on 21 September 2018 will have a very limited impact. Actually, this effect is smooth. Indeed, the price on the electricity market is not specific to Belgium, as prices are mostly aligned. I hope you've seen the same evolution on the charts. This means that the price of electricity should be considered on the scale of a huge market, to the best of my knowledge, of a production of 396 GW. We have just announced that some nuclear power plants will not be available for a few months. Will this significantly affect prices? No! The fact that gas prices have risen by 65% over the past year, that coal prices have increased and led to an increase in the price of electricity, and that governments and policies are rightly taking steps to quadruple the price of CO2 over the last year, all of this has a structural effect on prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u83	No! [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u84	On the short-term market, you will have seen that the price has taken off since the announcement, in Belgium – and only in Belgium. In fact, if we look at prices in our neighbours, we find that there are no problems of supply and availability of electricity in other markets a priori, since its price has not taken off. So the impact of our nuclear power plants is a slight take-off of prices for the past week, which will start again. We work every day to ensure that our nuclear power plants function as safely as possible. We are, of course, the first to suffer from this situation. Moreover, EDF Luminus made it clear in its press release this morning that we were not the only ones, as this company is a partner and shareholder in our nuclear facilities. That is why it also suffers the consequences. If you don't believe us, maybe you'll believe EDF Luminus? You asked about the reports, which are internal documents that we share with the Agency. I suggest that you consult the competent authorities. In my view, a debate can take place in the Nuclear Safety Committee, if you wish. Then I'll come back, since the question was asked, about...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u85	Does that mean that you agree to make these reports available to the House?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u86	If the Agency asks us for these reports!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u87	What if you're asked by the House?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u88	We're gonna let the rules of the commissions play. You have access to AFCN, which, to my knowledge, has all the information necessary to assess the condition of our facilities. You can consult them at any time. In any case, we are ready to cooperate with AFCN. As regards the bankruptcy and the sum of EUR 1.6 billion you mentioned, you have forgotten a small amount, very important for us: we have already paid nuclear taxes to the tune of 2.7 billion! This is almost twice the 1.6 billion you mention and is, in short, a business transaction. We can also ask ourselves what we are doing with these 2.7 billion euros to start the energy transition. We are a locally rooted company. We have been producing electricity in this country for over 100 years. We have more than two million customers for electricity, more than 16,000 employees in this country; nuclear competence is indeed Belgian, it has begun in Belgium. To refer to articles I have read or reports I have seen, we are not a nuclear operator in France or elsewhere. The only nuclear assets we have are in Belgium. The competence was born and developed here. We hope to remain a Belgian company, because we love our customers. We want to continue to provide them with the energy and efficiency services they need. As far as effort is concerned, to each one his responsibilities! We mustn't argue. Everyone has to take responsibility, but today we must not put everything on our backs. Tomorrow, if there is no wind or sun in November, we will be asked to compensate the customers! We are only a player in the energy market. We provide about 50% of production. There are other suppliers and producers in Belgium: Lampiris, Total, EDF Luminus, Eneco, Essent, etc. I think that everyone (with Elia) must now stop arguing, because if the situation is really as alarming as I hear it, it is necessary that the technicians, the industrialists we are and the electricity suppliers can concentrate on the solutions to be found and implemented as quickly as possible. As far as we are concerned, that is, in any case, what we have been doing since last week. Finally, Mr Nollet, you have alluded to what has been said in the press. Although I respect the latter very much, I still wonder a little about the accuracy of the statements made and the facts reported concerning relatively complex situations. It was a question of negligence. I reply "of which act", if the boss of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency has indeed made such a criticism. When we say that we do not understand, it is because we consider that there was obviously no negligence. Indeed, as you and others have pointed out, there are inspection reports. And I have never hidden that this very specific problem in a given place exists since the start of the operation of the installations. But we've always inspected and repaired them. In addition, we learn from what we discover and adapt our inspection plans. The inspection programmes for Tihange 3, Doel 4 and Tihange 2 have evolved on the basis of what we have identified at Doel 3 level. When, at some point, there are effects and it is believed that the time has come to repair, the most important thing is to ensure that at any time – this is our first priority – the installations are operated in a fair and correct manner in terms of nuclear safety. That's what we did. You understand that it is not cheerfulness of heart that we put our installations to a halt. The economic impact is very important to us. Let's forget the economic aspect. Today, I have hundreds of people and contractors working on three construction sites. I had to tell operators in the control room in Tihange 1 and Tihange 3 that their installation will be stopped, which is not easy. You are familiar with the history of these facilities and their prospects for the future. It is not cheerfulness of heart that we announce all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u89	Is that why you didn't do it in November 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u90	No. November 2016, you brandish a photo. November 2016, we inspected and made the necessary repairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u91	It's exactly the same situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u92	We have changed methodology. Until October 2017, we monitored, inspected, and repaired at specific locations, and at any time we had approval to restart the facilities. It is not because there is a certain level of damage in a photo - I cannot see the exact date: we make repairs, we make choices, we submit this information and discuss it and we decide on the availability of the bunker. When it is said that it is available, it means that security is assured and we restart because we have permission to do so. That's what happened. On the other hand, it was not until October 2017 that, conducting the inspections, it was said that this would no longer be possible. We were no longer entering the time window of the planned stop and the condition of the damage was such that we had to look further and make more extensive repairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u93	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u94	It's like always, Mr. Nollet. We are a responsible nuclear operator. We first do our own analyses and bring these elements to the table. I may be on the wrong board, but you know that we also have a completely independent physical control service in our company. He doesn't depend on me, but he does his checks and gives his opinions. All of this is then discussed with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, which incorporates all of this. We must respect the Agency's injunctions at all times. That's what happened. In October 2017, the decision was made to continue the investigations and then to repair them. I do not hide from you that this project has evolved in the diagnosis, in the scale of the work to be done, in the way of organizing them, otherwise the date of Doel 3's resumption would not have changed several times. And the REMIT would not have been reviewed several times. We are asked why we did this work in the winter and not in the summer. We did everything we could to avoid the winter period. We made the first observations in October 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u95	In November 2016! You could have!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u96	In November 2016, we are also on the eve of a winter. Again, we don't trade-off, we don't balance nuclear safety with the time when we have to say that this facility can no longer be restarted today, according to the rules and according to the Agency. In November 2016, we conducted the inspections and restarted. In October 2017, we began to investigate further. The state of the damage was such that we initiated larger investigations. This led to a dialogue with AFCN. As a result, Doel 3's calendar has evolved several times. Every time we had new diagnostics, measuring elements, calculation elements, we knew how fast the repairs were progressing, what would be the technical solutions of repair, etc., we have at any time, as soon as we had this information in a stabilized way, informed the market. That is why on Doel 3, we have reviewed our dates several times. I come back to the aspect of public communication. I hope I explained it. At one point, it is known that three other units are involved, as the Agency says six times in press releases. We are organizing briefings by some journalists this summer to explain in detail what is happening, how we proceed, etc. All this is public information. We announce in June that we are at the limit of the return of winter. That's for sure because our schedules, at that time, allow us to rule that these dates are tenable. Then, it's true, the investigations continued. Diagnosis has evolved. I would remind you that it is in mid-June that we see a certain gap on Tihange 3, a new element that must be taken into account. These are the Agency's most relevant injunctions. In nuclear safety, all questions must have an answer. I think you all agree that nuclear safety is not a thing to do. Excuse me, but we are in a very difficult situation which has also evolved. So let's look at her! But nuclear safety is our priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u97	What information did you have on September 21 that you didn't have the day before? It's nine days before the announced deadline for Tihange 3 recovery. Normally, you thought you could restart. What is the new information that makes you arrive so close to the scheduled date for Tihange 3's revival?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u98	Mr. Nollet, I'll tell you. While the average Belgian was enjoying the sun this summer, we mobilized more than 200 engineers, technicians, contractors at three sites. We stopped the Doel 4 and Tihange facilities in early August to carry out the minimum investigations. I have to tell you that even to this day, the investigations have not been completed. The diagnosis is not completely complete. So we continue to diagnose, measure, calculate, repair. That's the reality. I can't say otherwise. That's the reality. We still needed about six weeks - I'm not going to do the exact account - to get the start of a diagnosis for Doel 4 and Tihange 2 and be able to decide on the planning. I add to that that the diagnoses on Tihange 3 have changed again this summer. We started with a working hypothesis. Besides, by working on the ceilings, we could not directly begin inspection or repair work on the walls. Over time, we have noticed, very late, I must say, that the walls of Tihange 3 are also affected, and that we must therefore also undertake the repair of the walls. Why did we see him so late? It's the appreciation of each other. We're technicians. My collaborators did their job properly. I confirm it. I have every confidence in them. There were thermal protection plates on those walls. During the inspections of the past, we had elements to rule on the proper holding of these walls. Nevertheless, with investigations, calculations, additional analyses, we must go further in these investigations as well. I told you, it's like the complex renovation of a house. Once we start, we scratch, we look, we investigate. We have to ask ourselves questions: what is this? Over time, it evolves. Tihange 3 has evolved in his diagnosis. Doel 4 and Tihange 2, it's just six weeks to make the first diagnosis and arrive on September 21 with...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u99	On Tihange 3, what has changed is your knowledge of the walls?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u100	Our knowledge, appreciation of the impact of the situation and the condition of the walls on the overall safety assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u101	So why, not in September but in July, did Minister Jambon, in answering my questions, already talk to me about the wall problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u102	I don't know what walls Minister Jambon spoke of.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u103	Des murs de Tihange 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u104	I don't know what walls we talked about. There were probably questions, but at that time, our assessment was that the walls were okay. Subsequently, our file of investigation, calculations and analysis of the structural integrity of the building evolved. As well as the importance of the problem of walls.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u105	If I may, to finish our committee now, perhaps you have a word of conclusion, Mr Saegeman. Or are you done?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u106	Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u107	Thank you. Colleagues, I had not chosen to limit the duration of this committee, but another committee is scheduled for 2.15 p.m., with the hearing of the Director of AFCN and the sub-committee to meet. There were questions and answers. I would like to know if there are any colleagues who would like to question the CREG? There's four of you? I would ask you to limit your speech to one minute. By correction for our guests, we must remain brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u108	I have a question about the loop flows. I understand from a number of studies carried out by the CREG, among others, that, in order to better guide and partially block loop flows, the cross-control transfers can be used. At the same time, it is mentioned that the control of these transformers is carried out at CWE level, so that this is done more widely. Is there any possibility, together with the Dutch and the French, because they are the victims of this, given the different prices achieved in the CWE zone by those loop flows from Germany, at that level also to make agreements with Germany to switch on a number of reserve power stations in the south? A second part of the question, in what way do we notice these loop flows in the case of insufficient power? Those streams will pass through here. If there are areas with deficits, how does that translate into concrete facts? If there are deficits, we saw this recently in Eastern Europe, it will also have an effect on physical flows. I would like to hear more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u109	I'll come back for a moment on the prices. You said there would be an increase, but announced that the cause is not only related to the closure of the plants. Ms Marghem said that ENGIE should reimburse consumers. In your opinion, as a regulator, is this possible under current legislation? The safety net mechanism was activated by the State at some point. If I'm not mistaken, that safety net is still in the law. What would it take to reactivate a safety net? These are two very short questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u110	I'm going back to Elia's April-May note. They consult the various stakeholders and announce that only 3.6% of unplanned unavailability is taken into account. Why doesn't CREG react at that time? The CREG made a series of comments in reaction, but not in this regard. Do you consider that there is a problem, or that there is none, when ENGIE Electrabel announces a stop one morning saying it is planned? Do you consider that there is a market distortion problem when an unplanned stop becomes a stop simply planned by its extension? Is there not, behind these two market information, a way to deceive other potential operators in this market?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u111	Mr President, can the CREG tell us whether European legislation prevents or stimulates the implementation of a strategic reserve? Is there not an obligation in this respect? It is known that it has a cost to businesses and individuals, and that it can be an element of competitiveness. Is there any comment in European legislation on this matter? We referred to the lack of information provided to CREG by operators. You mentioned incomplete paintings. What can be done to reform this situation? What conclusions can be drawn from this year's episode so that it does not happen again? What reforms are needed to achieve transparency?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u112	The CREG pleads not to activate the strategic reserve, because this would result in an increase in prices. The situation has never been more worrying than this year, and the reserve would not be activated? In what case would it be activated then? Is there any sense in having this reserve? On the other hand, is it normal that the activation of the reserve increases prices? Shouldn't a requisition system be provided without compensation? The minister spoke of a possible manipulation of the markets by Electrabel and would have asked you to investigate the matter. Have you received the Minister's request? Do you have the results of a similar investigation that would have taken place last year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u113	The first question was whether we could use the cross-control transformers or the PSTs in the loop flows. Yes, we can, and in the near future, we will take it with Elijah. However, it should be borne in mind that the use of PSTs does not remove flows. The currents are only pushed away, back to Germany. It is also important to be able to guarantee one of the other measures, i.e. that at least 20% of the line capacity is given to the market coupling. If, on the other hand, we use redispatching, so the capacity in the south of Germany, then we tackle the source, the cause of the loop flows. Do loop flows have an impact on prices and on possible power shortages? Yeah, there's definitely that impact. The loop flows take physical capacity, capacity we cannot use to import. It is therefore a possible and even more likely scenario that high prices and a shortage of electricity go hand in hand with loop flows. It was asked why the CREG does not have any comments on the 3.6 % unavailability Elia uses. Well, the reason is that Elijah takes into account not only the aspects of unplanned unavailability, but also a contingency scenario, a scenario where Elijah already takes into account that 1 000 megawatts would be less available in Belgium and in a number of plants in France. That seemed to us to be a good approach at the time. So we had no questions about this ex ante and neither did we have any ex post. The difference between the unplanned and the planned unavailables should also be considered as follows. A plant may fail unexpectedly, but the producer, for example ENGIE, can then get a view of it when that plant can be activated again and from then on that failure can be called a planned failure. Every day there is also a new market, the daily market. Producers who have lost unexpected capacity may resource into that market. For us, it is important, from the moment an event occurs that can be significant for prices, to communicate through REMIT before trading on the market. Now I come to the questions about the dates, the data transfer and the Elia model. I would like to reassure Mr Peeters of Elia that we are not student wizards at the CREG. If we were to have access to Elijah's model, we would do so wisely. We will also have to go through a learning process to understand that model. I think it's only natural that the regulator can control a regulated business. We will do so in the interests of the consumer. I would like to say a few words about strategic reserves. Why are there no strategic reserves? Why is the CREG not in favour of strategic reserves in this context? The principle of these reserves is that capacity is withdrawn from the market and can only be used when prices indicate a deficit if prices become EUR 3 000. This means that there is no impact on the price, which will remain high. This will enable the market to continue to do its job, but it will avoid problems with security of supply. That's the whole principle. In this way this can also be approved by the European Commission and cannot be seen as a form of state aid. This is a necessary rule that is part of the strategic reserves, otherwise we will never get this approved and it will be considered as state aid. In this situation we do not yet see prices going to EUR 3 000, but they are already high. Either way, they're pulling capacity to the market. We would also much prefer to keep this capacity on the market, so that we do not have to pay compensation for strategic reserves. After all, this is ultimately brought back to the consumer. Moreover, capacity will also be able to be deployed earlier, not only if prices are EUR 3 000, but also at EUR 100, 200 or 300. The impact on consumers is therefore much more favourable if strategic reserves are not put in place at the moment and capacity is moving towards the market. There are sufficient rules and mechanisms for this. We have recently lowered the barriers to this. We hope that capacity will still come to the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u114	If Mr. Tirez is finished, I will answer the price question in two parts. The first concerns the possible reimbursement of the increase in relation to any legislation. As mentioned above, the price increase is observed at European level. It is largely caused by CO2 and gas increase. It is therefore relatively complex to isolate, in this increase, the share resulting from the announcements that would have been made by ENGIE at a given time. It's a first thing. At the level of the legal basis, in order to arrive at a possible liability and compensation, it is necessary to examine all the legal bases available: economic law, competition law, energy law, or even the various contracts, whether it be the balance at the level of Elia or the other contracts at the level of Electrabel. At this stage, and following a preliminary analysis of legislation, we have not yet found sufficient provisions in the direction of compensation, but the legal analysis must continue. The other part of the question concerned the safety net. Today, in 2018, we are in a situation where the net was included in the electricity law which automatically provided for an end from 31 December 2017. On the other hand, there are still two royal decrees that implement the safety net. The question, then, is whether to follow the law or the royal decrees instead. In any case, if necessary, the CREG is monitoring, as it has always done in terms of the functioning of the market and prices. It will alert the authorities if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u115	I urge you not to drag around to alert the authorities, if necessary, because the issue of price is an extremely important factor for many consumers, citizens or businesses. I wanted above all to go back to the validation by CREG of the assumptions adopted by Elia. Why did you validate the fact that we're working in N-1 this year, when last year we were working in N-2?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u116	Past performance is not necessarily indicative of the future. I repeat: at that time we saw no reason to doubt Elijah's assumptions in this matter, namely a contingency where one power station would not be available, and some of them would not be available in France either. That was enough for us at the time. We do not want to shoot at that ex post, that it was a bad assessment when it ends badly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u117	Mr. Chairman, I asked a question about the minister's request for market manipulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u118	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I forgot that answer. Excuse me. In November 2017, we received 10 to 12 questions from market players about the sudden availability of nuclear power stations. We then requested all communication between the FANC and ENGIE, because it will ultimately be the FANC that will decide when or when the power stations will be able to come back again. We then verified in what way or when ENGIE has entered the market, whether or not to make purchases. We have established that the REMIT rules were respected. We shall now be doing the same exercise for the present period. We will communicate on this in the same way when our report is ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic970x.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, we have not exhausted the subject, but we have exhausted the time allocated to us. We have even far surpassed it. We had an interesting debate. On behalf of you all, I thank our guests, who took time to participate in this frank and important exchange. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly be discussing the subject again, but I will now close this committee.
