ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u1	Mr. Speaker, Minister, I have tabled a bill on adoption leave to extend it since, as you know, the deadlines are extremely short. The leave is even completely non-existent for some children. I tabled it here are several legislatures. I understood that there was an opening in this government. But obviously, things don't move much. In 2015, I gave it to you. You yourself supported the extension of the adoption leave in the House's Social Affairs Committee. I have quoted your comments in the written version of this question. Minister, we are now in June 2018. Yes or no, will this government move the lines on adoption leave? I ask you as Minister of Employment. This is an important issue. You've often talked about flexibility. In my view, flexibility must be able to go either way or it is much more difficult to audible. On the other hand, I have also heard some of the positions of other government ministers that the situation is not simple. Yes or no, is there a willingness on the part of the government to move forward? If so, when? We've been told "yes" for several years, but nothing's moved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, as I have already mentioned, adoption leave is important for the integration of a child into the family and for establishing a link between the child and the parents. To be clear, I am in favour of extending its duration and adapting the terms of the adoption leave. I would also like to point out that only the labour law aspect of adoption leave falls within my competence. For the first three calendar days of adoption leave, the worker may be entitled to his or her normal paid leave but for the remainder of the period of adoption leave, he or she receives an allowance through his or her mutual benefit. This allowance is therefore not within my competence. I have also observed that a number of parliamentary initiatives are under way on this issue. As far as we know, discussions in this committee on adoption leave are still ongoing. In this phase, it is first and foremost up to Parliament to deal with its own initiatives on this subject. In addition, it may be useful to draw attention to recent opinions 2072 and 2073 of the National Labour Council (CNT) in which the social partners propose to adapt the definition of the concept of disabled child under certain leave schemes so that this concept is more in line with reality and with the regulation of family allowances. At present, we are also preparing an adaptation of the concept of disabled children, including adoption leave. If this change is approved, the duration of adoption leave for adoption of a disabled child will be doubled more often than has been the case so far. In existing regulations, this doubling applies in the event of a physical or mental disability of at least 66%. This is a condition which leads to the recognition of at least four points of pillar 1 of the medical and social scale as used for family allowances. An additional possibility would be added, namely that nine points would be reached in the three pillars of the medico-social scale, in line with the rules on social benefits. Thus, consideration would be given not only to disability, but also to the possibilities for the integration of the child and the impact on the family situation in order to assign or not to assign the doubling of the adoption leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. With regard to the last part on children with disabilities, it is obviously good news if this materializes. With regard to the two opinions of the NTC you mentioned, I was able to read about them. Good if you move on with this. But, fortunately, not all adopted children have disabilities. I therefore come back to the question of adoption. I hear you're in favour of it. I also hear that you are referring this issue back to the ongoing discussions in Parliament. I was the first to introduce this bill, since several legislatures. Several parties are in favour of it, and so much the better. I'll tell you what I think, minister. I'm sick of this little political game! The majority said that it could not move forward because of the government, and the government called for Parliament to take on and assume its responsibilities. I turn to the two colleagues of the majority government in this committee. Mr President, I am addressing you. Since the government gives us its green light so that Parliament can do its job, I suggest that we move forward in concrete terms by voting on the texts on adoption leave. The very bad arguments that seem to emerge straight out of the 19th century, which some members of the government still dare to invoke by saying that maternity leave is historically designed for the mother to rest, seem terrible to me both in view of the evolution of the societal and sociological issues generated by the reception of an adopted child and the challenges that adoption may represent in terms of social and school integration and, in a second stage, in terms of occupational integration. Mr President of this committee, I turn to you to hope that with this message from the government, we can make concrete progress and vote on these texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u4	I look forward to the Budget Minister's response as planned during our session in early June, with the deadline set for mid-June.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u5	Mr President, this is an old question. I no longer have in mind the date on which it was registered, you may have it in the files, but we had a lot of discussions about the Veviba company. We had these discussions on the issue of food security, but in this case, Mr. Minister, within the scope of your powers, it is rather a question of the company as such: the structure of the company and various problems in relation to it that I wanted to mention, while admitting that we are no longer really up to date. And perhaps we have already had the opportunity to have these exchanges, apart from oral questions, in more general debates following this case by the Verbist/Veviba Group. This group would concentrate to my knowledge – you will confirm it or not, Minister – 30% of the slaughters in Belgium. It's not nothing! A turnover of 200 million euros! And the slaughterhouse in Bastogne is one of the largest in Wallonia, employing 300 people. In addition, nearly 3,000 Walloon breeders work directly with this company. It is therefore a form of economic concentration that raises questions in the current context and in relation to public health and food safety issues. If farmers work with existing slaughterhouses, a lot of them describe this economic sector as opaque. They're denouncing economic offences. For example, the producer no longer has any control over the weight of animals entering the slaughterhouse. Elements, offals would be found in uncontrolled parallel productions. There is a debate about "carcase yield", which is not respected. The breeders point to this practice as routine and organized theft. The issue of transparency is certainly at stake. This debate comes a little late, I don't know why. Did the competition authority intervene as the Verbist group merged, acquired or expanded? Have there been any notifications of concentration? Have unfair competition complaints been filed? If so, how were they treated? Have any economic offences been found by the SPF Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u6	Minister, in addition to what Mr Delizée has developed, I would like to ask you questions on the same subject that fall within your sphere of competence. It is difficult to separate the social and health aspects of this dossier. In November 2017, according to news reports in the press, Veviba was controlled by ONSS, as well as other companies, following an exchange of data that revealed irregularities in social legislation. So, Minister, what can you say about this control and what are the irregularities in social legislation? A second element was revealed by the press. When the scandal broke out in early March, trade union testimonies were heard describing Veviba and the Verbist group as the champions of social dumping. According to these testimonies, they used subcontractors from Eastern countries, working seven days a week and more than eight hours a day. Trade unions also report problems in social elections. What about it? Is that correct? What is compliance with the relevant legislation? What is the structure of employment in Veviba and the Verbist Group? Can you clarify the number of CDIs, temporary workers or attachés? According to a third element revealed by the press, it appears that the main subcontractor of Veviba had regularized, the day before or the day before the search on 28 February, more than 70 workers via declaration to the ONSS. If this allegation were to be confirmed, it would shed new light on this matter – except that it is a coincidence. Do you have any information on these statements in the press? If so, what is the basis of this finding?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u7	Minister, this issue has already been tabled in March. If my colleagues have already drawn up a picture of the various questions, I will push you a little further. Indeed, it is reported that the 79 workers from Poland, Bulgaria and Romania, employed at the Veviba site in Bastogne, were reported to have been the subject of a Dimona declaration on 27 February 2018. However, the review of the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises reveals that another company, Activa Meat, has been active in Belgium since May 2008. Two companies governed by Luxembourg law are cited: Activa Meat and Vevibalux. According to Luxembourg sources, it has always been stated that workers are dependent on the Belgian ONSS. If this company has been active in our territory since 2008 – according to the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises – why were workers not reported to the ONSS before 2018? A detachment normally lasts for a maximum of 24 months. These workers were registered in the Banque-Carrefour in 2008, until 2010 (24 months). What was the status of these workers between 2010 and 2018? It is true that there are long-term detachments for five years, but this requires the agreement of the sending country and the agreement of the host country. In this case, did these workers receive proper A1 posting certificates? Even if an A1 certificate was issued until 2013, under what social status did workers then change between 2013 and 2018? In addition, it is also reported that a Romanian-language recruitment site was created from Luxembourg to recruit staff in Romania to be occupied exclusively in Belgium. This constitutes a situation of cascading detachment, which, in such circumstances, precludes the use of detachment. If these workers were actually recruited according to this procedure which prohibits posting, again the question arises of the social status under which these workers evolved between 2008 and 2018 – 2018 being the date of their Dimona entry into service. Questions also arise as the workplaces are not infinite in the slaughterhouse. It can be assumed that there has been a turnover and that the process workers have been replaced by others. The replacement of posted workers by posted workers is also a cause for the cancellation of the posting. Minister, I would like to add something to this boat, which is already quite loaded. No social balance sheet has ever been deposited at the Central Bank's balance sheet. I would remind you that foreign companies are nevertheless required to deposit accounts, to which the social balance sheet must be annexed. The latter would have allowed us to check the number of workers employed under employment contracts in Belgium. These issues are important and should have activated warning signals upstream. In addition, the government has made it important to announce in various communication plans that the slaughterhouse sector is a priority in the fight against fraud. How is it that this situation has not been brought to light before? The meshes of the net are huge!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the meat sector is confronted with various phenomena of fraud, such as illegal employment, false status, false postings, illegal provision or chains of dishonest subcontractors. For several years, social inspection services have been carrying out joint or non-joint checks in this sector. Joint actions are coordinated by SIRS. In the meat sector, we often work with subcontractors. When inspection services carry out a control on a specific site, all companies present are subject to it. In 2012 and 2013, following a social inspection check at the Rochefort and Bastogne slaughterhouses, countries of posting had already been asked to withdraw the A1 form for posted workers, mainly workers from Activa Meat. For a number of cases, the procedure is pending. In October 2017, the CLS and ONSS participated in a joint control action with Veviba, where they mainly found the presence of two subcontractors, Activa Meat and Mahevia. As usual, in these cases, ONSS will make every effort to ensure that legal obligations regarding correct declarations to Belgian social security and the use of third-country labour in accordance with international rules are respected. In both 2017 and 2018, the social inspection services carried out investigations in which contacts were made with foreign social security institutions as well as with the competent judicial authorities in Belgium. As investigations by our inspection services are under way and are kept secret from the investigation, we cannot provide any information on this matter at this time. With regard to Mrs Fonck's question about Activa Meat based in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, I can tell you that no social balance sheet has been submitted. In addition, I confirm what is included in the action plan to combat social fraud, approved by the government on 8 December 2017. This year, SIRS will carry out at least 50 targeted and joint controls in the meat sector. These are in addition to the checks that each inspection service will carry out alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u9	Minister, I take note of your answers, which are more relevant to my colleagues' questions about social fraud or inspection. Unless I am mistaken, I do not feel that you have responded to the issue of economic concentration and competition authority. Have you not had an answer from your administration or are you not able to give me one? I did not hear anything about my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u10	Mr. Delizée, please excuse me. I did not give any concrete information about your question, because it was found that the Department of Economy had only controlled certain instruments. I'll start your question again at the level of this department.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u11	Minister, thank you for that. I was wondering if the competition authority had been questioned, whether it had intervened, whether there were notifications, complaints or anything else. What should I do? Do I have to ask the question again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u12	This may have to happen in another commission. It's up to you. However, I will ask for additional information and actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u13	In the Committee on the Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u14	Yes, but it's up to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u15	Minister, I can put my question back in the Committee on the Economy if you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u16	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u17	Minister, there is not much concrete in your answer to my questions. You confirm the sensitivity of this sector and the fact that it is subject to numerous frauds. Many controls have taken place and others are still included in the action plan. I hope that we will have the opportunity to have some more concrete elements when we are out of the ongoing investigations, but at this stage, apart from this overall finding and this statement of intent to carry out a lot of checks, there is not much additional element.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u18	Thank you, Minister. I hear the investigation is under way. That being said, I believe that these societies have a certain degree of exemplaryness and are school cases in terms of multiple fraud: health, economic and social. There have previously been signals on several occasions in this file. I note that it was decided to withdraw Form A1 2012-2013. This raises the question of why, at that time and in the aftermath, there was no verification of compliance with legislation, the filing of social balance sheets, etc. This directly raises the question of capacity. Are the staffing levels now sufficiently expanded to allow time for substantial substantive investigations? Finally, in Luxembourg, these workers seem not to be known from a social point of view. It is possible that these workers, who have been shown irregularly as posted workers, may be involved in these famous cases to be re-subjected in Belgium and who have been the subject of withdrawals of certificates of illegitimate postings. I've called you several times in recent years. We have the impression of a form of social no man's land, which is created by the fact that the recovery of social contributions is not organized. This obviously has the effect of keeping these workers in a troubled situation for as long as no one seems to be able to say where they are subject to social security. This no man's land finally creates a very bad system, since it aggravates the situation and leads to social fraud that really escapes control. We need to find effective solutions in this area. We are really in the process of social dumping and, above all, fraud, and therefore the destruction of jobs in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u19	Minister, the Act of 15 January 2018 amended the Employment Contracts Act of 3 July 1978 in order to prevent an employer from placing its workers in economic unemployment and abusively replacing them with subcontractors. This is the famous article 30quinquies. I am not going to read it again here, but I have allowed myself to add it to the question I have put to you. In the parliamentary debates, I asked you about the fate of a company that would be composed of departments with different activities and types of work. Can it use subcontractors in a given department if workers working in another department with other qualifications are unemployed economically? You replied that subcontracting is not permitted for work performed in the position of a staff member who is unemployed for economic reasons. You also stated that the determining criterion for the application of Article 30quinquies of the Act of 3 July 1978 is the function held by the worker. This article refers in fact to work which should have been carried out by workers during the period of suspension of the performance of their employment contract. My question is somewhat technical, and I'm sorry. Having again been questioned, in April, by business owners, I would like to ask you the following questions, so that things are clear and to avoid worries, especially for these bosses. Minister, can you confirm that a company that almost exclusively outsources a specific service, such as maintenance, can maintain this subcontract when a request for suspension of work for economic reasons affects workers in another service? Could this company continue to outsource part of a service if workers within that service are affected by a request for suspension in the event of a lack of work resulting from economic causes? If so, under what conditions? I thank you for providing specific answers to these questions so that I can relay them to these business leaders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, by inserting Article 30quinquies in the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts, the legislator wanted to avoid abuse of economic unemployment. It considered it necessary to specify that enterprises which resort to economic unemployment cannot replace workers who are affected by economic unemployment with subcontractors. This article reads as follows: "The performance of the contract of employment shall be suspended in the event of a lack of work resulting from economic causes, as determined in articles 51 and 77/1 to 77/8 of this Law. The cause of the lack of work referred to in paragraph 1 must be independent of the employer's will, which is not the case when he outsources to third parties the work which should have been performed by the workers during the suspension of the performance of their employment contract." As explained in the parliamentary debates, subcontracting is prohibited for tasks that are usually performed by economically unemployed workers. It is therefore not possible to outsource activities, tasks or functions that are normally performed by workers who are unemployed in the economy. On the other hand, an economically more fragile branch of the enterprise may experience difficulties and meet the conditions for workers, who usually work there, to benefit from economic unemployment measures, whereas other services of the same enterprise are not confronted with such problems. This could also be the case for a company which uses outsourced labour for its maintenance activities and which encounters economic difficulties in one of its other activities. Workers who are usually employed in the firm in difficulty could, if the legal conditions are met, benefit from economic unemployment. Finally, one may wonder about the use of subcontracting for part of a service while workers in the same service are experiencing economic unemployment. In this case, it will be necessary to verify that the function, task or activity performed by the workers of the subcontracting undertaking is not usually exercised by the workers who are unemployed economically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u21	Thank you, Minister. This means that in one company, if part of the maintenance service was outsourced by different companies before there was a recourse to economic unemployment for the other party, which itself was not outsourced, there is no problem and economic unemployment can be resorted to without calling into question the subcontracting that was carried out by that part of the service. As long as there is a temporality and not a mixture of workers. Is it correct if I summarize this in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u23	Thank you very much. I'll transfer this information to business leaders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u24	Mr President, Minister, in its opinion No. 2014, the National Labour Council gave a favourable opinion on the principle of introducing a possibility of reducing work benefits in the context of parental leave, at a rate of 1/10th of full-time parental leave. The NTC recommended that this modality be subject to the agreement of the employer. We are extremely in favour of making progress on flexible parental leave. I said earlier, on the occasion of another question, that flexibility must go in both directions. There is work, but there is also a need to accept flexibility in terms of family organization. On 21 March 2017, you pointed out that royal decrees to make this procedure effective would soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers. On October 24, 2017, you recalled in the plenary of the House that the introduction of this type of parental leave requires an amendment to the reorganization law of January 22, 1985, as well as an adaptation of its implementing orders. Minister, we are now in June 2018. Do you intend to take up this matter, which would make it possible to move it forward positively, but above all to make it a reality? Are you going to tell us, as was the case with the adoption leave, that you are leaving this matter in Parliament with the risk of everyone having a ping-pong party. And, in the end, no one guarantees without saying it. In fact, it is a refusal on the part of the majority government. In any event, I would like to make it clear in this dossier, which is linked to the family organisation and which allows the demand to be met in a number of companies. In fact, this keeps the workers concerned at work permanently outside of this 1/10th time, which also makes it easier to keep them away from professional practice, not to mention that this can also be of interest to the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u25	Minister, as Mr Fonck said, the media announced at the end of January that there would be an agreement between the majority parties on the inclusion of parental leave in 1/10. This would finally be followed up by a unanimous opinion of the NAR, dated 20 December 2016. In Opinion No. Moreover, 48 of 18 July 2017 had reminded the NAR of its failure to implement it. I quote: 'The NAR notes that until now no action has been taken on its Opinion No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. He therefore considered it appropriate to send a letter dated 30 June 2017 to Mr Siegfried Bracke, President of the Chamber of Representatives, in order to know what progress has been made in implementing the draft law introducing the possibility to take 1/10-time parental leave." By letter dated 7 July 2017, the President of the Chamber announced that the letter from the NAR was forwarded to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and that work on proposals in this area is still ongoing in the Committee. In the meantime, we are a few months away. To my knowledge, the proposal has still not been discussed and has still not been voted on, let alone a royal decision to give it concrete form. When can we expect an initiative from the government to implement Opinion No. 2014 of 20 December 2016 of the NAR? We have discussed this on several occasions, Minister, including during the discussions of the texts on workable work. Flexibility indeed makes the work more workable. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u26	Mr Gilkinet is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question is in line with Mrs Fonck's question earlier. As is rightly pointed out, a legislative proposal has been tabled in the Court to make parental leave more flexible by allowing leave to be extended to include a reduction of one-tenth of benefits. Afterwards, several amendments completed the legislative proposal even more. The file is currently pending in the Chamber. It is therefore primarily up to the Social Affairs Committee to continue its work on this subject. I have already stressed in the past that the introduction of such a form of parental leave presupposes not only an amendment to the Law on Recovery of 22 January 1985 but also an adaptation of several implementing acts to that Act. As soon as the recovery law of 22 January 1985 has been amended, I will do all I can with the relevant implementing decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u28	Minister, I feel like I'm dealing again with the first question about adoption leave. Should we not organise a meeting with the ministers concerned and the parliamentarians of this committee to stop this pingpong between the parliamentary majority and the government? Everyone wants to, but no one wants to do it. As with adoption leave, this little game is extremely unpleasant for the people concerned. I don't understand what's wrong with this subject. Is this the budget component? Do we have the capacity to maintain budgetary neutrality? Would this file be related to others? So the majority would support each other and we would only move forward on this matter if agreement were reached elsewhere? I find this quite unpleasant. We will therefore continue to put pressure on Parliament. Mr President, I will turn to you again. Minister, all this time lost, after all these government announcements, people are on parental leave and cannot benefit from it. This situation is not admissible. The responsibility of the public authorities and the State is to issue announcements that are realized. This situation has lasted for more than a year and a half. Let me stress this, beyond the decision to be taken, I hope quickly. In relation to the implementing orders, given the announcement effects of the government on this matter, would it be possible for those who already have parental leave in progress, for example at 1/5th, to convert it into parental leave at 1/10th. Of course, a discussion with the employer concerned would be necessary. This action would correct the announcement effects, which the government has consistently carried out on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u29	Minister, your answer is very disappointing. There's a game being played. The government is asking for proposals to be submitted to the committee. The committee's looking at the government. Ultimately, the people in the workplace who want to make use of the scheme are the victims of the story. A minister who is so committed to workable work and makes statements about it in the press one after the other, is getting rid of it today by saying that he is waiting. I don't understand that attitude, honestly. There's no problem at all. There is even a great deal of opposition support to make progress on the dossier. Mr President of the Commission, I am also looking at you. Since it has been a long time since we tabled another proposal in committee, it seems to me that we can deal with the matter as a matter of priority and put it forward. Minister, I assume that you still have something to say in the current government and that you will increase the pressure so that the government gives more priority to the dossier. After all, the current ping-pong game doesn't benefit anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u30	Mrs Kitir, I have already informed your colleague that we agreed in committee to wait for the opinion of the Minister for the Budget by 15 June 2018. There are other legislative proposals, which have been pending for three years; there are other interest groups with questions. Do I have to ask questions about that, too? We agreed in committee two weeks ago, you weren't there at the time, but I suppose the staff will pass on information that we are going to deal with after we have received the opinion of the Minister for the Budget on 15 June 2018. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u31	Minister, this subject is of particular interest to me. I've seen a lot of patients go on a combatant's journey, and that's the least we can say. If we are at the forefront of organ collection and transplantation, we still know, despite this, the phenomenon of organ shortage. It is not negligible. A little over a thousand patients are still waiting for a transplant, with particularly long delays, since these can range from a few months to a few years. Applications far exceed the number of bodies available. In addition to the donation of body organs, there is the possibility of the donation of living organs. It is an act of incredible solidarity and generosity. That being said, there are brakes. They are financial or insurance-related. Hospital transplant services also witnessed layoffs. Foremostly, when a proposal for organ donation of the donor's life is made, it logically implies an absence from work. These workers therefore warn their employer. In the vast majority of cases, it must be stressed, things are going well and employers are extremely correct. However, several cases of dismissal have taken place. Employers were deeply concerned about the organization of their business. I therefore plead for special protection of these organ donors against dismissal. They warn their employer by a medical certificate, but it does not cover them when they enter the certificate: they announce when they are going to be donors. A delay is followed before the intervention and this period makes them particularly fragile. Did you take a position on this file? Has this point already been discussed with the social partners or could it be discussed? I repeat that a large number of employers receive this request from their employees in a positive way, but the few cases that have occurred are totally unacceptable, given these generous and supportive donations. If this has never been discussed, could you submit it to the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, following the proposal for a law on the protection against dismissal of organ-donating workers, which you tabled in November 2012, the National Labour Council issued an opinion on 22 July 2013 calling for the revision of the existing rules on the motivation for dismissal, in the context of the harmonisation of workers' and employees' statutes. As you know, the social partners have since adopted the collective labour agreement on the grounds for dismissal. Thus, since 1 April 2014, the date of entry into force of Collective Labour Agreement No. 109, "any worker who has been laid off whether he is a worker or an employee has the right to be informed by his employer of the concrete reasons which led to his dismissal. In addition, if the termination is found to be manifestly unreasonable, the employer may be ordered to pay compensation equivalent to three to seventeen weeks' pay." The courts and tribunals are of course competent to assess whether a dismissal is manifestly unreasonable. Depending on the elements of the file, the dismissal of a worker who has donated an organ could be considered a manifestly unreasonable dismissal. The most important and most positive for you is that I believe that it is appropriate to seek a new opinion from the National Labour Council on your bill, in order to know the views of the CNT with regard to protection against dismissal. I will send this request for opinion as soon as possible in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand your argument. In the situation indicated, it is possible that, in the event of recourse to the courts, a decision may be favourable to a worker. At the same time, organ donation is not so frequent. In addition, the persistent lack of clarity in the regulatory procedure weakens the position of the workers concerned. The Chamber had held hearings on organ donation. The various speakers expressed their wish for a clarification of the organ donation granted by a living person. I thank you, in any case, for agreeing to apply to the NTC. I hope that employers and union representatives will be able to shed some light on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u34	Mr President, Minister, we were talking about this at the moment in the Veviba dossier: we know the ravages caused by social dumping. It seems to me that in the Cegelec case, referred to in a press article of 11 April, this is really a form of intra-Belgian dumping via what would be a vast illegal system of low-cost labour. Following the investigation of Mons' labour auditorate for social fraud and corruption, the French company Cegelec and its subcontractors were charged in 2017 for making illegal workers available, aggravated by forgery in writing. The Labour Auditorate will shortly request that the case be referred to the Correctional Court. Since 2010, Cegelec has been awarded numerous contracts with STIB and lnfrabel for its electrical wiring business. In the execution of these contracts, Cegelec allegedly used labour providers (workers paid 26 euros per hour instead of 36 euros on the market) and allegedly committed various offences (signing purchase orders after completion of the work, charging 10 % on the cases obtained by the subcontractors). The article also refers to benefits in kind (computers, gsm) that would have been claimed by some executives from subcontractors, if not evicted for the benefit of other competitors. Such a system distorts competition, devalues the work done, increases the precariousness of workers and causes a dry loss to the State funds. It is on this point that I would like to come back to because in this case there would be a loss of profits for ONSS of EUR 1.4 million in social contributions and EUR 1.7 million for the tax system. Minister, what can you tell us about the Cegelec case that I have just mentioned? More importantly: how will the collection of unpaid social contributions be organised? What means will they be used? Within what time frame, since the injury would have been assessed by the ONSS in July 2017 – will soon be a year? What are your ambitions in terms of the collection of ONSS contributions – I am of course talking about the amount? What are the results in terms of the collection of unpaid social contributions during this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, like you, I have read the article published in the Soir Mag. I have inquired from the various competent administrations. The author of the article seems to have been well informed about this case, which is currently the subject of a criminal case opened with the Hainaut Labour Auditorate, which required the intervention of an investigating judge. The amount referred to in the article corresponds to the reality. The National Social Security Office (ONSS) cannot, for the time being, act on its own initiative to collect the contributions due. As indicated in the press, either the Hainaut labour auditorate is prosecuting the criminal court or negotiating a criminal transaction. In the first case, the ONSS will become a civil party and the amount ultimately to be recovered will depend on the actual conviction of those responsible for paying the contributions and their solvency. In the second case, I would remind you that Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation makes the conclusion of such a transaction conditional on the prior payment of taxes or social contributions to which the author is liable, including interest. Therefore, there could be no transaction without full interest from ONSS.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u36	Minister, you did not give me the results with respect to the collection of unpaid social contributions during this Parliament. Don't you have the information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u37	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u38	You should be able to obtain them from your services. I shall rest a specific question on this subject later. I referred to the Cegelec case because it illustrates a particularly important problem and raises the fundamental question of how the ONSS ultimately covers fraud and debts. If I am not mistaken, ONSS is preparing its next management contract for the period 2019-2021. The recovery of fraud is the major issue and, of course, even more so when it concerns companies that have the means to pay. We can restructure, we can move the staff, we can set targets, but if we don't have the real means to get back the money that's owed to the state, I think we're missing an essential goal. It is your responsibility as a minister, but it is also the responsibility of the government. I would therefore like to rest with you the question of what has been achieved in terms of the collection of social contributions under this legislature. I am curious to know the amounts and to see, when the whole Cegelec case is over, how much the ONSS will actually recover from what it estimated, namely 1.4 million euros in social contributions and 1.7 million euros for the tax. If you send me the data by e-mail, that's enough for me. It would really please me and avoid having to add a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u39	Mr Minister, the sixth reform of the state empowers the regional employment services to grant exemptions for training, traineeships and studies. It is also the responsibility of the Regions to allow for training or internship without exemption and with the maintenance of benefits. The RVA remains competent to grant unemployment benefits to the persons concerned. As a result of this change, the unemployment decision had to be amended in order to achieve as much uniformity as possible in, for example, the training days and their volume, which are treated as working days or which are suspensive in the context of, for example, the opening of entitlement to unemployment benefits or the fixation of the daily amount of benefit under the degressivity rules. That is what happened with the Royal Decree and the Ministerial Decree of 8 November 2017. Those adjustments seem to me to be good, too. What surprises me, however, is that Article 130ter of the unemployment decision was amended to ensure that not only the allowances under an apprenticeship contract can now be combined, but that all income in the context of studies, training, internships or apprenticeships are now subject to a cumulative limit. In the case of IBO, Article 19 of the Ministerial Decree was supplemented by a provision which states: "Without prejudice to the application of Article 130ter of the Royal Decree, the benefits granted under, during or as a result of a training, studies, internship or apprenticeship shall not be regarded as wages within the meaning of Article 46, paragraph 1, paragraph 6° of the Royal Decree, under the unemployed person who, in accordance with Article 152quinquies of the Royal Decree, may pursue such studies, training, training or learning time while retaining the benefits. The benefits granted in the context of, during or as a result of a training, studies, internship or apprenticeship shall not be regarded as wages within the meaning of Article 46 (1), first paragraph, 6° of the Royal Decree, in respect of the person with whom the unemployed person resides, where those benefits do not exceed the limit provided for in Article 60, second paragraph, 3°, or, in the case of a child, in Article 60, third paragraph. By way of derogation from the preceding paragraphs, the allowance granted to the unemployed person in the context of individual vocational training in an undertaking shall not be regarded as remuneration, in so far as it corresponds to a percentage of the difference between the net wage which the worker should receive from the employer under an employment contract and the amount of unemployment benefits to which the worker may claim. By way of derogation from the previous paragraphs, a scholarship on which social security deductions are made shall be regarded as a wage." More specifically, the underlying passage lays down a strict framework for the way in which the regions should fix the training premium. In this way a problem arises with the new scheme, which was developed in Flanders in consultation with the social partners and which would be abandoned from a fairly complex calculation, referring to the future wage. Uniform training premiums would be used. This also fits within the framework of a clearer definition of the IBO as a training instrument rather than an employment measure. Although, as has been said, the federal government has remained competent to grant the benefits, I still have reservations as to whether this does not affect the way in which the regions and the Communities organise the training courses. I therefore have the following questions. What were the reasons for imposing more stringent and general limits on the cumulative possibilities of benefits with training fees through the above-mentioned decisions and even imposing a method of calculation of the training premium? Are you prepared to review the decisions taken in consultation with the Regions in order to grant them sufficient autonomy in the organisation of the training courses? Although the Royal Decree and the Ministerial Decree were published in November 2017, the teachings and communications to the regional institutions, among others, were delivered only in March-April of this year, which would now be sent back to the people by the RVA directors until the entry into force of November 2017. Do you agree with me that this is inappropriate and that these recoveries should be cancelled?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u40	Minister, the federal government has reformed the scheme as regards the cumulation of unemployment benefits, a living wage or a sickness and invalidity allowance. At the same time, the Flemish Government carried out reforms concerning the Professional Entrepreneurship Agreement and the Professional Entrepreneurship. For that internship, the trainees receive an allowance on top of their benefit. However, the reforms are not well coordinated, so that the compensation received in Flanders exceeds the federally fixed cumulative amount. Many trainees have therefore already received a recovery order from the RVA: they have to repay part of their benefit. The VDAB students, the IBO trainees and those taking a work experience placement are also at the same risk. In this context, I would have liked to ask you the following questions, Minister. Has Flemish Minister for Work Philippe Muyters already consulted with you on the planned reforms? In what way will federal and Flemish regulations be better aligned? What solution is provided for the disabled BIO trainees who have already been the victims of the new regulations? Do the same problems arise in Brussels and Wallonia as regards the cumulation of training and unemployment allowances? If so, has there been any consultation with these regions? Will these regulations also be aligned with federal regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, Mr Vercamer, as Mrs Kitir points out, the sixth state reform gave the Regional Employment Services the authority to grant exemptions for training, traineeships and studies, while the RVA remains competent for granting unemployment benefits to those concerned. It is true that, as a result of this change, the unemployment decision had to be amended in order to bring as much uniformity as possible to, for example, the training days and their volumes which are equivalent to working days or which are suspensive in the context of, for example, the opening of entitlement to unemployment benefit or the fixation of the daily amount of benefit under the regulations on degressivity. This standardisation was developed in the Royal Decree of 8 October 2017. The Teachings on this subject were published by the RVA on 22 December 2017. This Royal Decree also included specific provisions on the cumulation of training or traineeship fees with unemployment benefits. Initially, the aim was to limit the excessive internship fees so that they do not lead to a fall in unemployment. The income of the unemployed person receiving a training allowance must be proportionate to the income of a permanent employee employed in a similar job. For the vocational training scheme, the Royal Decree retains, as before, the cumulation of the internship allowance with the unemployment allowance. The situation for these unemployed is therefore still the same. As mentioned by one of the questioners, the income of an unemployed person who receives a training allowance must be proportionate to the income of a permanent employee employed in a similar job. The same Royal Decree finally increases the cumulation for the alternance learning system to the general level of cumulation provided for in the unemployment decision. In concrete terms, this means that the job-seekers in this system are all improving. For the unemployed in another type of training, the possibility of cumulation was also brought to the same level, which in some cases meant a reduction. My cabinet has held a number of meetings with the cabinet of the Flemish Minister of Work and the VDAB to discuss how federal and Flemish regulations can be better aligned. I also consult with the RVA in order to better assess the concrete consequences of the application of the Royal Decree of 8 October 2017. Of course, I asked for the matter to be frozen for the time being so that we can clear it up and clear it up as soon as possible for all concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u42	Minister, if you say that you have instructed the RVA to freeze the situation, I assume that no recovery will be requested for the time being. They're putting things on hold. If something is decided in October 2017 and only communicated to the Regions so late, that doesn't seem okay. I assume that all those who have already received recovery will not have to pay. After all, letters have already been sent for recovery. If there is a freeze, I assume that this applies to all those who are in that situation. I look forward to the outcome of your consultation. You say that, in some cases, job seekers are improving. I am still a little hungry as to why the method of calculation is so broad. I will follow up on this matter and come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u43	Minister, a solution must be found urgently. I hope that will be done. The aim must be to encourage people to take up this training. Just the lack of experience, especially among young people, often makes people grab next to a job. I urge you to find a solution as soon as possible. In any case, it is a good thing that this is being frozen and that no recovery is being made, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u44	Minister, last May, the Mestdagh Group announced a new restructuring in the sector, with the elimination of more than 400 jobs. The Prime Minister himself directly asked the group to try to review the number of layoffs down. Unfortunately, it is known that massive redundancies in the sector have followed in recent months or years, often on the pretext that the sector is undergoing a phase of major change. In response to a topical question I asked you on May 9, 2018, you told me that you were following this file closely and that you were open to the discussion of proposals, particularly with regard to the reform of the Renault law. You also told me that you had been able to talk to the CEOs about large distribution as well as the representatives of the workers in the sector. Minister, in view of these elements, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you had any recent contact with the leadership of the group regarding the Prime Minister's request to limit the number of job losses? What initiatives are being taken by the government to limit the number of layoffs and reassure families? Given the regularly advanced argument of the digital transformation of the sector to justify dismissals, do you intend to launch a study or set up a working group on this topic to shed light on this phenomenon? Do you feel that other announcements along the same lines could be made? Finally, I come to the subject of auditions. We asked for it for Carrefour, but it was not accepted. In this case, and in a more global way, would you be open to holding hearings with representatives of workers and distribution actors in order to better understand the problems facing the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u45	Mr Minister, my colleague has just re-established the framework for this issue. This elimination of almost one in five jobs in the Mestdagh group is enormous and represents almost ten fewer workers per store on average. Although this is the first restructuring within this group, it is part of a context of upheavals affecting many players in the distribution sector: Delhaize, Lidl, Carrefour, concerns at Makro. A number of reasons have been cited in recent restructurings, including the impact of technological advances and the growing share of online shopping. A Belgian specific feature also attracts attention: there are too many supermarkets per capita in our country. What initiatives have the government taken, particularly in relation to the Mestdagh Group, since the announcement of the restructuring? I tabled this question several weeks ago. What guarantees can be given with regard to the continuity of shops and "supportable" working conditions, in the context of the significant decrease in staff per store and the new organization of work announced? How do you look at the factors behind the current crisis in the sector, more broadly than the case of Mestdagh? What plan of attack are you planning to implement? In view of the difficulties affecting many players in the distribution sector, how do you envisage the situation and how do you discuss it with trade unions and employers' federations? How do you see the future of the mainly food distribution sector and how can you ensure a transition to a new model, especially with the growing share that e-commerce, still modest in Belgium, but which will probably focus on local shops, due to digitalisation and automation? In Belgium, e-commerce accounts for only 1% of food trade. The aim for the future of this sector is that this situation does not lead to multiple redundancies and downward alignment of working conditions. Does the situation in neighbouring countries, a number of which have anticipated this problem, provide a useful insight into the future of this sector in Belgium? What are the employment statistics for the retail sector over the last ten years, i.e. joint committees 119, 202, 202.01, 312? How do you reconcile the restructuring announced in the sector with the growth of about 2,000 jobs per year in the large distribution sector? Would this growth have ended or is it linked to the too large number of businesses in Belgium? Can you convey to me, for example, in writing, without necessarily reading everything, the results of previous restructurings in the sector: the number of redundancies, the point on this issue being rarely made once the wave of news has passed, the schemes of unemployment with additional business (RCC), voluntary departures, the non-replacement of workers who have retired, or even other elements that you would consider useful?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the announcement by the management of Mestdagh in extraordinary works council on 7 May of its intention to implement a restructuring plan involving the possible loss of 450 jobs marked the beginning of the first phase of the Renault law. Unions and management have therefore begun the information and consultation procedure, which will be carried out according to the timetable established by the parties. Currently, discussions focus on the new business plan that will be put in place to relaunch the company. Management noted that it did not intend to close stores. The social impact on workers and the consequences thereof still need to be discussed and negotiated. Under Phase 1, the parties will consider possible alternatives to limit job loss. In Phase 2, they will negotiate a social plan to mitigate the impact of collective redundancies. With regard to the contacts and initiatives that have been taken at the government level, please be aware that there have been contacts with the Mestdagh leadership and that I have had personal discussions with the trade unions. As always, a social conciliator in my administration is available to facilitate dialogue between the employer and the unions, if necessary. We will also ensure that the Renault law is properly applied. In particular, as a result of the collective redundancies announced at Carrefour, it had become clear that there were problems in the distribution sector. In addition, there is a link with the Carrefour Group. Mestdagh has already taken over 16 supermarkets from the Carrefour Group and has the largest number of Carrefour franchised stores in French-speaking Belgium. Mestdagh's management has announced that it intends to tackle the decline in the company's market share. Consumer habits have changed, hence the need to adapt the supply. Greater attention should also be paid to local and organic food. In addition, a process of catching up will have to be developed in terms of digitisation. Management is also keen to reduce staff costs, which are higher than those of other actors. In this respect, there is a question of greater versatility of workers, but also of an increase in Sunday openings. As always, the employer will have to comply with all legal provisions. Of course, the social partners will play their part in the negotiations. With regard to the question by Mr Daerden and his colleagues on digitisation, in 2016 I had already invited the social partners to analyse its wider effects on our labour market, both for jobs in the traditional economy and for those developed in the digital economy. The interim report of the CNT of 4 October 2017 has, in the meantime, become voluminous. We have not yet received the final recommendations. We need to develop a strategy for creating quality jobs in the context of digitisation. In this sense, we must provide workers with maximum support, so that they can acquire skills that can help them find a new job. That is why I will analyse the figures published in Securex's recent study on "The perspective of official figures on atypical forms of employment". I will therefore continue to follow-up on an ongoing basis. I also refer to the joint statement by the Group of Ten of 7 March on digitisation, which is a decisive step in the work undertaken under the last interprofessional agreement. As far as the request for hearings in Parliament is concerned, the decision is of course up to the members of the relevant committees. Finally, for your question on employment statistics, we see the creation – over the last ten years – of thousands of jobs in the retail sector. Of course, I can give you more precise figures if you wish. There have been new arrivals in our market. The population has grown. This does not, of course, mean that every player in this market has experienced development. For this reason, some individual firms sometimes require reorientation based on market shares or other strategic considerations. I come to Mrs Fonck's last question. In 2010, the Carrefour Group dismissed 3,363 workers. The stores of Casteau, Eupen, Jumet, Malines, Middelkerke, Ronse, Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, Kuurne and Zwijnaarde were closed. In 2015, Delhaize notified 1,800 dismissals. Finally, in January 2018, the announcement of collective redundancies at Carrefour involved 1,233 workers. To date, the collective redundancies procedure is still under way within this company. The dossiers introduced by companies to obtain recognition as a restructuring enterprise in the context of unemployment with an additional enterprise with a restructuring plan contain the number of candidates who can access unemployment with an additional enterprise, and not the number of workers actually entering the scheme. Therefore, we do not have the exact figures at the end of the restructuring process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u47	Minister, thank you for your response. Since we are still in the first phase of Renault, we do not yet know how to move forward or obtain additional information on the evolution of the initial announcement. We can always hope, of course, that there will be a downward revision of this announcement of 450 jobs lost. Do you have the timing of this first phase? Are there any indications as to when it should end?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u48	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u49	In relation to the measures that you think you can take, I understand that the conciliator is available, if necessary, for monitoring the application of the laws. With regard to the hearings or the exchange of views which would be useful on the sector and on the impact of digitisation, particularly in this sector of distribution, it is clear that this is the decision of the Conference of Presidents and the Committee itself, but if it is supported by the government, this is more likely to be followed. We can therefore consider that you are rather in favour of having at some point an exchange on the reports produced, on the subject, on the studies. We will not fail to ask our President to have this kind of work in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. Mestdagh is in Renault procedure. We'll see if there are any alternatives to announcing the dismissal of the 450 workers. The distribution sector is a sector in crisis and I believe that today we must be able to say so. It seems to me important to learn from what has already happened in recent years. I find it a pity that the results of the restructuring processes are not accurately documented in terms of dry redundancies, possibly offset by voluntary departures or non-retirements. There is no clear and accurate record of this. Lessons need to be learned from this succession of restructuring within different groups in the distribution sector. But I have the impression, Minister, that it is important and urgent today to be more proactive in order, at some point, not only to keep track of the announcements, the Renault plans, the total job losses, but to be able to anticipate tomorrow and the day after. Are there any specific measures to be taken to support this large distribution sector? Is there, perhaps, any action to be taken in this area? I myself live near a border and I can tell you that the number of people who cross the border to go shopping in an area of the large distribution of a neighbouring country is anything but negligible! What measures, if any, could be put in place at some point to try to curb these job losses? It is true that there is the aspect of e-commerce, digitisation, etc. But today, let us recall, this represents only 1% of the food trade. In practice, it seems to me that with both the employers and the federation of this sector, but also with the trade union representatives, you should be able as Minister of Employment to define a strategy to really anticipate the visible effects on the retail sector. In any case, I would urge you to show more proactivity in this sector, given the umpteenth recent announcements, hoping each time that these are the last ones, while new restructurings are successively announced. As far as I am concerned, we are in a crisis situation and this therefore requires a proactive and much more ambitious attitude on the part of the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u51	Mrs Fonck, I have a few figures here to start the debate. I am thinking, for example, of statistics on the number of employees in the retail sector. I can provide you with a copy. In 2008, a total of 97,583 employees worked there, compared to a total of 100,429 employees in 2017, an increase of more than 3,000 employees. This is not at all negative, but there is a change in the sector itself. For example, Delhaize achieves good results and creates a lot of jobs. It's more nuanced. However, I obviously agree to hold a hearing to clarify things and give you all the figures available. I can already send you figures concerning employees in the retail sector, for which there was an increase between 2008 and 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u52	Minister, I'm interested in these figures. That being said, there are also the figures you gave earlier, which show that in recent years we have been dealing with a loss of the order of 7,000 to 8,000 jobs. It's huge! All the promises and jobs created are very good. But, in practice, thousands of jobs have also been destroyed. In addition to the figures, I would like the forces of this sector, in cooperation with the State, the Government and you, the Minister of Employment, to be able to decide whether further measures should be taken or adjustments made for this particular sector. We can't stay on the balcony and watch the numbers evolve one way or the other. It's interesting, but it's more important. Action must be taken to ensure the future of all these workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u53	Deputy Prime Minister, since 1 January 2014, the Single Status Act has made it possible to harmonize the status of workers and employees on many points. The law then responded to the unequal treatment between these two statutes, considered unjustified by the Constitutional Court. This harmonisation work has led to new rules on dismissal and introduces the obligation for the employer to provide reasons to the dismissed worker, subject to penalties in the event of manifestly unreasonable grounds. Deputy Prime Minister, it has now been four years since the single statute applied in our country with regard to dismissal. Do you have any feedback on how employers have responded to these new obligations in the event of dismissal? How many cases of unjustified dismissals have been recorded since the law came into force? What are the main reasons for this? How many employers have been punished? Are these situations identical between the North and the South of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u54	Mrs Galant, pursuant to the Single Status Act of 26 December 2013 and the Collective Labour Agreement No 109 of 12 February 2014, the worker is entitled to know the reasons for his dismissal and to obtain compensation in the event of a manifestly unreasonable dismissal. It is up to the judiciary to assess whether the dismissal is manifestly unreasonable and to determine the amount of the penalty, which consists of compensation between 3 and 17 weeks' pay. None of the requested information is available from my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u55	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I'll question your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u56	Deputy Prime Minister, since 2015, flexi-jobs in the Horeca have had some success. According to the latest figures, about 28,000 people are granted flexi-jobs status. However, since this year, the scope of flexi-jobs is no longer limited to the sector of the Horeca. It has been extended to other sectors including: food trade, retail trade, hotel industry, large retail companies, department stores, artisanal bakeries and temporary work related to the above mentioned sectors. At the moment, we imagine that it is difficult for your administration to know the real impact of this extension. Nevertheless, the following reality has been brought to our attention: few employers are really aware of the benefits and benefits they can derive from flexi-job status. There is a real lack of information that could be addressed. Deputy Prime Minister, is the first quarter of 2018 experiencing an increase in flexi-jobs? Can you encrypt it for us? At present, do you perceive a craze for the status of flexi-jobs in sectors that have recently been able to benefit from them? How can you further improve the information and knowledge of this status with the employers concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u57	Mrs Galant, ladies and gentlemen, ONSS has statistics based on the Dimona declarations which the employer must introduce before a worker enters and leaves service. It is important to note that the Dimona only provides an indication of the benefits provided by an employer. The declaration of one day's work for a flexi-job worker in Dimona does not guarantee that this working day has actually been worked and that it really falls under the flexi-job regime. Confirmation through the DmfA in which the employer declares the volume of work actually carried out in the form of flexi-jobs is still necessary. The extension of flexi-jobs to the retail sector entered into force on 1 January 2018. The ONSS currently does not have DmfA-based statistics. According to the latest Dimona statistics, there is an overall increase of 5,449 flexi-jobs single workers. This is an increase of 19% between the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018. I have a table at your disposal with all the figures. In the retail sector, there were 1,969 flexi-job workers in the first quarter of 2018, to which should be added some of the workers employed through the acting agencies. Indeed, an increase of 840 temporary workers was observed between the fourth quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018. However, it is not possible to determine what proportion of these workers are employed, on the one hand, in Horeca and, on the other hand, in the retail sector. Looking at the first provisional figures for the second quarter of 2018, there is a 36% increase in the number of flexi-job workers engaged in the retail sector compared to the first quarter. This increase seems to indicate an increasing interest of retail employers in flexi-jobs. Since the extension came into force only a few months ago, we believe that sufficient time should be allowed for this new measure to be launched and for employers to take ownership of it. Therefore, it seems to us that it is still too early to draw consistent conclusions. In early 2018, ONSS informed employers and their agents about the extension of flexi-jobs to the retail sector and pensioners through its usual communication channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. I'll come back to you in early 2019. You will then probably have the final figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u59	Mr President, Minister, a year ago, May 2017, there was the Panoreportage about the abuse of successive daily contracts at DHL-Aviation. Not only did you then carry out an investigation into the situation in that particular firm, but you promised, above all, that after consultation with the social partners, you would lay down a basic regulation on the use of day-to-day contracts. So we are now a year later and apart from the fact that there are better arrangements within the company concerned, I have not yet seen anything of the general approach you have proposed. However, data from the RSZ, prepared at the request of the NAR Working Group, show that the use of successive day contracts is still increasing. As you know, I attach great importance to social dialogue, but I do think that the government should take the initiative to protect workers if it turns out that the water between the social partners is too deep and that it is impossible to reach serious agreements. In other cases, where employers' organizations considered that trade unions were too rigid, your government has repeatedly called for the absence of an agreement between the two sides of industry to impose unilateral measures. My questions are as follows. Minister, will you soon come forward with the regulatory adjustment you promised? What will be the main thrust of the measures you will take? If not, what arguments do you have for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, as you know, the intervention of the Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws has greatly reduced the number of daily contracts with DHL. New agreements were also made on a better flow to fixed contracts. This method was used by the TSW as part of a national monitoring campaign for temporary agency work. In addition, on the basis of this dossier, I asked the social partners in the National Labour Council to carry out an evaluation of the arrangements for successive daily contracts, which they did at the time in their collective agreement No. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers has been adopted. The social partners have been around the table a number of times, but so far this has not produced any concrete results. Employers and trade unions have forwarded mutual proposals to each other. Organisations are currently consulting their supporters on this issue. A next working group meeting is scheduled for 19 June 2018 in the NAR. At that meeting we will have to see whether a compromise is possible. Although negotiations have so far been difficult and slow, it is not the case that the social dialogue in this dossier would have been definitively unsuccessful. In view of the fact that the existing rules on the use of daily contracts are part of an interprofessional collective agreement, a solution negotiated by the social partners is preferable. Given that negotiations are still ongoing and that there is still a chance that they will lead to a satisfactory outcome, it is premature to intervene now by providing for its own measures. However, my patience in this dossier is clear to me that the same applies to you. In view of the time that has passed, I would like to get a message from the social partners within a very short period of time. That is why I convened a meeting, first with the employers, then with the workers' organisations, to clarify the discussion in the NAR and the question of whether the social partners can come up with an opinion. I will, as you have asked, intervene and make a proposal if there is no consensus within the NAR on this problem. I've waited long enough. The problem is serious. You've asked for it several times. My patience and apparently yours are running out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u61	Minister, my patience in this is indeed exhausted. DHL took the initiative, but not because it itself was aware that it was not okay to deal with people in that way and put them in day contracts and keep them on a leash. However, you know as well as I do that not only DHL uses day-to-day contracts. You know the figures: there is still a great deal of use being made of day contracts. I am not opposed to this in exceptional cases, but I am opposed to the abuses. In that case, my patience is really up. If there is nothing else to say a year later than that there is another consultation scheduled for 19 June... I understand that you want to give the consultation every opportunity, but I really think that if no agreement is reached at the end of June, you should take your own initiative at the beginning of July. We are all obliged to give them good working conditions. You will finally have to come to Parliament with a concrete proposal so that something changes for those people in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u62	Minister, on 1 April, the provisions of the Law of 15 January 2017 on the practical tests carried out by social inspectors entered into force. During the discussion of the draft law, we regretted that there was little left of the good preliminary draft that you had initially sent to the NAR for advice. The draft put forward in Parliament attached such heavy procedures and conditions to the authorisation to carry out practical tests that we feared they would remain an empty box. Also labour market economist, and specialist in research into the existence of discrimination in the labour market, Professor Stijn Baert, said: I am in favour of well thought out mystery calls, and these are none. The whole procedure is extremely cumbersome. We need the court's permission, and so on. In order to really reduce discrimination, it is necessary to increase the chances of being caught and the penalties imposed. If one only takes action after a complaint, the chance of taking action is almost nil. One of the problems is that data mining can be a useful tool in detecting discrimination, but today it is certainly not on the verge of doing so and it is unclear which existing official statistics and data can be used for this purpose. You tried to reassure us by saying that anyone who hoped this would be a dead sparrow would come true. After all, you would ensure that this technique would be used effectively. Since the law has been in force for some time now, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have the labour inspectors received specific training in order to make use of this specific means of action? Was there cooperation with specialised third parties, such as Unia, who trained inspectors from the Brussels-Capital Region? Have these inspectors been trained on which sources to consult with a view to the prior requirement of data mining and data matching, and on how to use them? Can you tell us what sources they will use for this purpose? How many complaints have led to data mining and data matching so far? How many of these cases gave rise to the application of an authorisation to the labour inspector? How many cases have led to the effective application of a practical test? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u63	Minister, Europe recently reminded us that our country is not doing so well with regard to the employment of people with a background to migration. It is bad everywhere in Europe, but we are among the less good pupils of the European class. Last year in Belgium, only 54 percent of people between 25 and 64 were born outside Europe. The overall rate for Europe as a whole is 65%. In Germany it is even 67 %, and in the United Kingdom it is 73 %. So there is a very big difference with those countries. Part of the statement is that people with a migrant background in the labour market are still discriminated against. Experiments at Ghent University from 2012, 2015 and 2016, where fictitious applicants were given a Flemish or Turkish name in any way, showed that the chances of a job interview for the Turkish candidate were one third to half lower than for the Flemish candidate or when the candidate offered himself as Flemish. Moreover, the recent figures from the Equal Opportunities Centre Unia show that out of the two thousand files opened in 2017, discrimination in the workplace was one of the most important complaints that were heard. It was even good for an increase of 60% in four years. I do not know whether the details of the figures are related to better reporting or whether there are more complaints and more discrimination or whether they are related to a combination of both. An important tool to tackle discrimination in the labour market, which we welcome, has recently been adopted. It was approved in January 2018. Those are the mystery calls. You have continued to do so in order to carry out the mystery calls or practical tests. They have been in place since 1 April 2018, so since several months. However, practice shows that few people have been properly informed about the new measure, especially how to apply it and what they should do when they are exposed to discrimination, both in the case of employees and employers, but also in the case of the general public. My questions are as follows. Firstly, what is the state of play today with regard to the operational roll-out of the mystery calls? How does it work? I agree with Mrs Kitir on this point. What's the status? Do you have any figures on that? Do they work well? Should there be a change of direction at the operational level, so with the inspectors, or is it not necessary? Secondly, will you take measures to make the application of the mystery calls available to employees and employers but also to the general public? If people do not know that practical tests are now possible, that these mystery calls can be invoked and that they not only need to be victims, but that they can also report discrimination as a third party, as a trusted person, as a builder or as a VDAB employee and bring the case to a roll, then they cannot make use of it either. That is why I have the following questions. Can you work on a targeted information campaign? If you want to do that, when would that campaign be planned? How do you want to work on the publication with a larger audience?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u64	My questions, Minister, are the same as those of my colleagues. What's the status? If a notification were to be made today to the competent services, could practical tests already be carried out? Is a KB or ministerial decision already in preparation to further concreteise the tests? When do you expect the first tests to be carried out in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u65	Mr President, my questions are similar to those of my colleagues. I introduced this question following the publication of the latest figures from Unia, which showed an increase of 13% in cases of discrimination in employment in one year. This increase is recorded year by year. Minister, what is the status of the implementation of the mystery calls? Have any effects been observed in recent weeks? Are you considering other measures to curb the spread of discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u66	Mr President, with Articles 30 to 35 of the Law of 15 January 2018, which lays down various provisions on work, we have created a legal basis for implementing mysterycalls. This is an important milestone in the fight against discrimination in the labour market, which this committee has studied very intensively in the past. As a result of these changes, the social inspector presents himself as a customer, a potential customer, an employee or a potential employee to determine whether, on the basis of a legally protected criterion, a company or an employer has discriminated against or is discriminated against by telephone calls. I will not repeat the legal provisions. We have already discussed this in detail. You are very well placed to know what steps need to be taken. Several members of this committee asked about a state of affairs. A directive from the Attorney General is currently in preparation. Two preparatory meetings have already been held for this purpose. The directive should be finally adopted by mid-June 2018, i.e. within a few days. As soon as the magistrate is ready, the procedure can begin. The magistrates also receive specific training on the subject of "discrimination." Performing a mystery call also requires a specific methodology that the social inspectors have not applied today. It supports the special detection method and specific training is necessary. Unia and the federal police will support the inspectors and provide them with the necessary information and learning material on technical competences. According to current planning, the first files on mysterycalls will be launched in the summer. In summary, mysterycalls could, strictly legally speaking, be carried out from 1 April 2018. However, the preparatory actions necessary to carry out mysterycalls in a qualitative manner, such as the necessary training of inspectors and the preparation of the new flow, which will arise between Justice and the social inspection, take time. From 1 July onwards, mystery calls can be performed in practice. I can still tell you that there are currently 14 cases of discrimination in the labour market by the inspectors of the Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws. For these files, no mystery calls were used. There will be no additional information campaign as we are convinced that the intended effect will also be achieved. Currently, there are files that are already considered sufficient to serve as the first test cases in the framework of mysterycalls. These are companies that would have violated the legislation on discrimination on several occasions. I would also specifically like to say that I have sent a request for an opinion to the National Labour Council on my draft royal decree which will trigger a positive action. I would like to refer this to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, because I am convinced that this can also have an important impact on the employment rate of employment groups. In this context, I am thinking not only of people with a migration background, but also of disabled people, young people, women, and others. This Royal Decree creates greater legal certainty for employers who want to come forward with a positive action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u67	Mr Minister, I understand that no practical tests have yet been carried out because they have not yet been carried out. I expect the first practical tests to take place from 1 July. I did not get an answer to my question as to how the data mining and data matching will happen exactly. I assume that this is part of the training that the inspectors and magistrates will receive. I am, as you know, in favour of practical tests, but I am not in favour of the way you have introduced them now. I will follow this up, because I hope you will not make us happy with a dead sparrow. If the measure enters into force from 1 July, we will question you in due course. I hope, as Mr Lanjri said, that you will also give it some publicity, because the problem is very real. Those who do not even know how to prevent themselves will certainly not make use of the resources you are introducing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Since the practical tests have not yet been carried out, we have to wait for their start and take some additional measures. You spoke of mysterycalls and spoke of telephone calls, but I suppose you missed that, because the mysterycalls are obviously not limited to telephone calls. They also include writing job applications, participating in job interviews and the like, i.e. the wide range of possibilities and ways to carry out practical tests. I quote that because I think it is appropriate to correct this in the report. You say you're not planning a campaign for a while. Minister, what I hear on the ground is that there is a great deal of confusion or confusion. For one piece, this may indeed have something to do with the fact that they are not yet there. If you say you'd rather start first, then so be it. However, a minimum of information is needed, first and foremost through the social inspection website. Thus, the information on how to lodge a complaint is also disseminated. Unia can also play a role in disseminating information. We should then have a look at it in the autumn, but I think it will be necessary to give a little more publicity on how people can complain if they are faced with discrimination. They need to know who they can report to to ensure that everything is done correctly. There is no point in adopting a good measure for which you, I and others have fought for years, if it turns out that no one knows. On the ground, I can even see people and political parties arguing for the introduction of mysterycalls, which has actually already been done. That is the fog that some try to spout. It is important that there is clear information from the government. People need to know how to report a complaint and they need to know that they are further involved. I think it is necessary for you to do so. If there is any additional need for campaigns, then we can look at that. A minimum of information seems really necessary to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Everything has begun with the famous resolution. I'm glad they're working on it now. We will continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic914x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers and for your information. Like my colleagues, I encourage you to step up the promotion of the mystery call measure, but also to present us with a better plan with other measures, because this is an important issue.
