ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u2	Mr President, I would like to announce the tabling of amendments which I request to be referred to the Council of State. The first relates to the draft law introducing the Code of Companies and Associations and introducing various provisions (No. 3119). The amendment seeks to clarify the legal situation of cooperative societies in a particular set of provisions. We wish to have the opinion of the Council of State on it. The second amendment, to be tabled by Mrs Onkelinx, concerns the draft law establishing the Brussels International Business Court (No. 3072).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u3	If I understand you correctly, Mr Laaouej, one amendment concerns the first draft on our agenda. A second amendment concerns the second item on our agenda and it is Mrs Onkelinx who is responsible for presenting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u4	Mr President, we know how much justice is experiencing an unprecedented austerity cure and how this government has undermined access to justice. The state of the buildings and the problem of the judiciary are staggering. While there is this austerity cure, this government comes with a project creating a business court for multinational companies that some have called the "caviar court". It seems to us to be a scandal in terms of what people are experiencing. The judiciary itself has offended itself in all its components and, first and foremost, the Court of Cassation. An appeal to the Court is provided for in the draft which the Court regrets itself. We therefore ask that this unacceptable draft be re-examined by the Council of State, and in particular this amendment relating to the Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u5	Mr President, on behalf of our group, I would like to ask that our amendments to the draft law on the new Code of Companies and Associations and various provisions be sent to the Council of State. The argument is actually very simple. We have noticed that in the various debates on the draft law some points still need further reflection. We ask the Council of State's reflection very specifically on a separate code of conduct for cooperatives. We also ask that our amendments on better CO2 balance and gender distribution be reviewed by the Council of State. Hence our question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u6	Mrs Almaci, there is some uncertainty as to which amendments are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u7	We will submit the whole package immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u8	We hadn't seen them yet, but we couldn't. I assume that those Members who have tabled an amendment and ask for the opinion of the Council of State have the required number of Members, namely 50. I also note that there is no urgency with regard to the drafts cited, both the first and the second. I assume that we can therefore easily ask for the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u9	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I propose to you on the agenda - this afternoon, write down the following point: . the draft law laying down various provisions on civil law and simplifying the provisions of the Civil Code and the Judicial Code on incompetence, and of the Law of 17 March 2013 reforming the rules on incompetence and establishing a new protection status consistent with human dignity, 3303/1 to 10. the bill (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke cs) amending the Code of Justice in order to grant associations a right of appeal in defence of collective interests, No. 466/1. The draft law (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Nahima Lanjri and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Raf Terwingen) amending the Civil Code as regards the appointment of a guardian, Nos. 794/1 and 2. the bill (Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the Legal Code as regards maintenance contributions, No. 2904/1 to 3. the bill (Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the Civil Code as regards the maintenance costs of children, No. 2905/1 to 3 - from Thursday, to write down the following points: . the draft law amending provisions relating to science policy, integrated police and defence, No. 3406/1 to 3. the draft law ratifying the royal decrees adopted pursuant to the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, No. 3407/1 to 3. the motion for a resolution (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Sarah Schlitz and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) to reposition Belgium in the climate debate, 3416/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I propose to include you in the agenda - this afternoon the following point: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, the proposed law (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke et al.) amending the Judicial Code with a view to granting associations the right to institute a collective action, No. 466/1. the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq and Nahima Lanjri and MM. Servais Verherstraeten and Raf Terwingen) amending the Civil Code with regard to the appointment of a guardian, Nos. 794/1 and 2. Bill (Ms. Carina Van Cauter) amending the Judicial Code with regard to maintenance contributions, Nos. 2904/1 to 3. the proposed law (Ms. Carina Van Cauter) amending the Civil Code with regard to the maintenance of children, Nos. 2905/1 to 3 - Thursday the following points: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, the bill confirming the royal decrees made under the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, Nos. 3407/1 to 3. the motion for a resolution (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, MM. Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet and Sarah Schlitz and Véronique Caprasse) to reposition Belgium in the climate debate, Nos. 3416/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u10	Colleagues, I would remind you of the commitments made. The first speaker, Mr. Senesael, will have ten minutes of speaking time, the next speakers being five minutes. Then the government's response and the replies will come. Those who have not brought an inquiry may speak after the replies for five minutes. That's what was agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, your government has been pursuing a climate emergency policy for four years. Just look at your austerity policy that attacks the rails to convince yourself. While road transport is one of the main sources of greenhouse gas production, the Michel government has chosen to save three billion on rail. How can we imagine that people will drop their individual cars as the government disinvests in the punctuality and quality of trains? For me and for our group, we must definitely break with such decisions, which are simply incompatible with the scientific findings of the IPCC. This is not the only example that illustrates the fact that the federal government is lagging behind on the climate. We all remember that just 48 hours after the climate march on 2 December, Belgium voted against the European directives on energy efficiency and clean energy. Of the 28 EU countries, only two countries, Belgium and the Czech Republic, voted against the Energy Efficiency Directive. It is unfortunate to see our country stand out as one of the most backward European countries in terms of climate. And this happened again at COP24. For months, many European governments have said that the European Union needs to increase its ambitions to meet the commitments made in the Paris Agreement. At COP24, this ambitious coalition of countries expanded further, but Belgium did not join them when an interparliamentary resolution had already been voted on 25 October calling on Belgium to join the coalition of ambitious countries. This was once again a dead letter to Katowice. Again, the government was unable to bring Belgium into the European lead. As Prime Minister, you had a duty to bring the Regions together to prevent our isolation on the European and global stage. The consequence of your inaction is the deterioration of our country's image. And this continues! No later than today, we learn from the voice of Jean-Pascal van Ypersele that Mrs Marghem was absent during the final negotiation in Katowice. With regard to your balance sheet after four years of power, how can we still give you our trust when you say that climate is now your priority? While you have not cared about it for four years, this theme would be a priority for you for the last four months of the legislature? Allow me to express the greatest doubts. However, the chaos caused by your government must not prevent our Parliament from relaying the demands of the population, particularly those expressed by the 75,000 marchers for the climate. Prime Minister, this is the third debate on this subject in which we have been participating since the march of December 2nd. While a very large parliamentary majority supports a more ambitious climate policy, I regret to note that our country continues to carry the donkey cap on the European stage. It is now time to take strong initiatives and clarify the position of the federal government. That is why, Prime Minister, I ask you to take a very clear position. Does your government support an upward revision of the European targets to achieve a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030? If so, will you amend the 2019 budget in line with this new objective, in particular to invest in rail, to break with your austerity policy that runs counter to the climate emergency?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you today, not the Prime Minister – in any case, first of all. The planet is burning. And, for four years, the majority looked elsewhere. However, at the committee meeting this morning, things began to change. We consider that, behind this change, a point of inflection is emerging – dare I say: a point of no return? Ladies and gentlemen, climate is the cornerstone of all policies. No immigration policy without resolving the climate issue. No sustainable economic policy without resolving the climate issue. No social policy without resolving the climate issue. For just over four years, we have missed out on this fundamental paradigm in terms of the policy of the twenty-first century. Belgium has come to the brink of nations and has been lagging behind both at European and global level. We were the laughing stock of other countries that, for a long time, saw us take the lead in climate negotiations. Today, I repeat, it seems to me that we can consider that things are beginning to change. I wanted to begin my speech by thanking you, including the colleagues of the minority majority, but who nevertheless had the courage this morning to adopt in committee the resolution tabled by the environmentalists. This is an important moment for this Parliament because the resolution, as drafted, is not just a resolution. It is engaging and deals with three points. First, the federal government will formally request that Belgium join the ambitious climate countries. What, for the time being, was blocked by Flanders will have to be released within the framework of the Concertation Committee which will be held tomorrow, I believe. Why? Because, unless I am mistaken, no party objected to the vote on the resolution this morning. There have been abstentions, of course, but I would like to look Mr De Roover right in the eye with regard to the responsibility which will be that of his party in the hours ahead of the Conciliation Committee. Colleagues, look at the situation, look at the whole of Parliament and all the parties that make up this Parliament today. If you prevent Belgium from joining what is now the position of the Federal Parliament expressed in committee tomorrow, you will be responsible to future generations for this failure, not for Belgium as a state, but for generations that now govern Belgium (including Flanders), to face the climate challenge. That is why I am addressing you and asking you to be consistent with the vote of abstention that you held in committee earlier and, with this vote of abstention, not to block the situation in tomorrow's conciliation committee. That's where it's going to be. If you stay on abstaining, things are possible. You still have questions about how we can do it. All right, but today what we are setting, what all the other parliamentarians and other parties want to tell you, is that we have to determine what we want to achieve at European level. This target, other countries have already signed it, and the committee this morning said: minimum minus 55% CO2 in 2030 and minimum minus 95% CO2 in 2050. I want to be very precise, Mr De Roover, this minimum of less than 95% in 2050, you have already accepted it! Mr Wollants, you were here in the gallery last week and you pointed at the MR by saying: "Remember! In committee, Mr. Thiéry had a much weaker motion than the one we finally adopted." Isn't that right? This minus 95%, Mr.De Roover, commits you far more strongly than the least 55% in 2030. I would therefore not understand why, consistently, what you accepted for the 2050 deadline, you would refuse it for the 2030 deadline. I therefore ask you to act within your party so that, tomorrow, the N-VA does not block the country – it has already been done for a long time! – but the responsibility we all have for future generations!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u13	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday evening, we were discussing the climate again, with a view to trying to put Belgium on the path of ambition at COP24 in Katowice. We have discussed at length this need for a message of hope and a strong message for future generations. This morning, in the committees, the representatives of the current majority voted on a motion for a resolution to improve our country's climate objectives, when it was co-signed by many opposition political groups. We signed it. In addition, your Minister of Energy has also supported it, and has even committed himself to bringing it to the concertation committee tomorrow. I therefore welcome, Prime Minister, this shift in influence in your government, which has now been on the bright side of climate history. In any case, Parliament urges you to carry out this action. The path of ambition, Prime Minister, is what you regularly defend in this rostrum. You mention it, and you remind us of it incessantly. Today, we adopted a resolution in committee calling on the federal government to plead with the ad hoc bodies for Belgium to join the coalition of the most ambitious countries in terms of climate objectives, i.e. reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The main objective of this resolution is to advocate at European level for a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 and 95% by 2050. This is really an important moment and we support it. As part of the presentation to the European Commission of the National Energy-Climate Plan for 2030, we would like the plan to be quickly adapted. We can talk about it. The minister said that "it was complementary, so that it defines a trajectory and measures in line with the interparliamentary resolution adopted on 25 October 2018." Let's remember all of us. It was a single text for all Parliaments. All this is obviously positive. But we often feel that a good resolution is not enough. It must be followed by concrete acts and facts. It is therefore now essential to put in place a genuine action plan at the federal level so that each of the bodies in that country can provide itself with the means to achieve the objectives that have been set. It is good to set targets, but we still need to adopt the appropriate means to achieve these sustainable and sustainable climate change for our people, for families, in the areas of energy, housing and mobility. If we look at the resolution of October 2018, we will notice that a number of things were mentioned in some fifty specific items. In this resolution, we wanted the National Bank of Belgium, in particular, to be able, together with the Federal Bureau of the Plan, to produce a comprehensive report on the medium- and long-term effects of climate change on our economy in order to raise political and economic awareness of the issue. We did indeed want the citizen to be able to adhere to this policy and to demand that all measures taken (legislative or regulatory) could benefit from a climate impact assessment. Mr Prime Minister, these measures, in my view, will enable us to enter into a new paradigm called for by the voices of more than 75,000 people who walked on the streets of Brussels on 2 December. These people witnessed this widely and many of them belonged to the new generation. I believe that we must, in this sense, be attentive to social justice in order to ensure that the weight of the decisions that are taken is properly distributed. But they will be an opportunity to move towards a more just world and not to deepen inequalities that remain unbearable to as many people as possible. We'll have to keep an eye out. Prime Minister, the equation will be complex, but it is the challenge that the planet and the people are facing. It is certainly not unrealizable. It is up to us, you, to rise to the challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u14	Colleagues, the most powerful speech of COP24 was given by Greta Thunberg, this 15-year-old Swedish. She gave a powerful speech in which she put all the world's leaders in the face of their responsibilities. She first pointed out the main reason for inaction in the face of climate disruption. She said: "Our civilization is sacrificed to allow a very small number of people to continue to earn a lot of money. Our biosphere is sacrificed so that the rich of countries like mine can live in luxury." She added: "It is the suffering of the greatest number that pays the luxury of the smallest number". She also perfectly summarized the blockages in the solutions by saying: "Even though the only reasonable thing to do is to pull the emergency brake, the only thing I hear you put forward is still the same bad ideas that put us in the current mess. Even if solutions cannot be found in the current system. Perhaps we need to change the system?" She finished her speech by saying that "this necessary change is happening. Whether you like it or not, real power belongs to the people." Indeed, Prime Minister, warming is not an issue that only occupies the scientists of the climate, nor is it just a story of complex model, long-term projection. The warming of the earth is not a fake news nor the alarmism of the left, climate change is a fact. If we want to control the effects of this climate change, the experts have calculated that we will have to multiply our climate ambitions by five. It's not the usual business ass that's gonna take us there. No, as the IPCC says, this requires a radical and rapid transformation in all areas of our society. These radical changes, people are imposing them on you by putting pressure on you, by mobilizing more and more massively. On Sunday, December 2, 2018, more than 75,000 people participated in the largest climate event in Belgium. Prime Minister, on several occasions you have repeated that you have heard the strong signal from the public. As a result of your government's reshuffle, you have again announced that you will make the climate one of your three priorities for the rest of the legislature. But we must move from speech to action, as these demonstrators demanded. Last week, I had already bet that Belgium could soon win the prize for the great gap between words and deeds. It must be noted that since then you have struggled to win this prize from the big gap. Belgium had already been abstained in the vote on the European Renewable Energy Directive and the vote against the Energy Efficiency Directive. Next, it was learned that at COP24, Belgium did not want to join the High Ambition Coalition, a group of about 30 countries that want to strengthen climate ambitions and investments. Finally, we learn that the future energy-climate plan to be communicated by Belgium to the European Commission at the end of this year contains, I quote, "a few innovations and few new measures, a blur between objectives and actions and few measures linked to a timetable." Prime Minister, this noon, a gathering was held, not in front of Parliament – since it is in a neutral zone, where it is forbidden to protest – but a little in retreat, under police protection, in order not to approach what is normally the temple of democracy. I heard these protesters advocate systemic change. My questions relate to this issue, Prime Minister. It is not business as usual that will allow us to achieve climate goals. You have announced an ambitious strategy and strong choices. What new measures are you proposing? What public investments will you plan to support these measures? Do you persist in your idea of introducing a carbon tax? It is against such a deeply unjust and inefficient taxation that yellow vests are shown in France and Belgium. Finally, is it not time to recognize the collapse of the ETS (Emission Trading System), the famous permits to pollute, and to replace it with a binding approach with mandatory standards, which set sector-by-sector maximum emissions, to reduce them by 55% or 60% by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this morning it was very clear that a large majority in Parliament wants to set a much higher target for climate policy ambition. We must stop describing a lack of ambition as realism, something that some in this hemisphere do. The reality is that scientists around the world have been working for about two and a half years to write a report that examines whether and how we can limit global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees Celsius. Their conclusion was that it's possible, but we have to take action now. If we show the same ambition as in previous years, we will not get there. The consequences will be disastrous. This generation will have to make it happen. Otherwise, we will have to bear the consequences for the future of our planet, our children and our grandchildren. Colleagues, we need to stop looking at the others. Katowice showed very clearly that the European Union is weakened if some Member States are not ambitious, if they do not want to play a leading role in climate policy. That was Belgium once again has done by refusing to join the High Ambition Coalition. Madam Secretary, I agree, it was Flanders that blocked this. By adopting this resolution in committee this morning, hopefully, by a large majority in this plenary session too, you will now have something in your hands to go further. I hope that you will be able to convince all your colleagues from the regions and the Communities of this. Prime Minister, I heard you last week, during our climate debate, not much specific announcements. All you said was that you wanted to look at taxation as a lever, as a tool for mobility and strong energy choices. Prime Minister, that is one thing, but I fear you did not understand what those 75 000 people said on the street on 2 December. It was not only an ambitious climate policy that was advocated, but also, above all, a socially just climate policy. There will be no such policy if you allow the market to play and impose more taxes here and there. In the end, they are always the same ones who suffer from it. It must be about a policy with active control, from the government, through regulation. Let's start designing products differently, colleagues. Let us organize our mobility differently. This means that we will also have to invest in public transport, in De Lijn, in TEC, in SNCB. Let us also see how it can be affordable for everyone to choose the most sustainable option. By focusing only on economic and tax matters, which also the colleagues of N-VA do, we will not get there. Mr Prime Minister, you wanted to wait and see if the 55% would be on the Conciliation Committee tomorrow. I understand from the Minister this morning, following the resolution, that there is no doubt that this will actually be on the agenda. This is in the resolution. Prime Minister, whatever government there will be tomorrow, your mini-government or any other government or government in current affairs or the government of the future, we will need to show greater ambition for climate policy. I hope that the resolution voted on this morning, as well as the many initiatives taken by Members here in Parliament, will not be part of a country once again receiving the Fossil of Day award.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed had, in recent weeks and days and on several occasions, an opportunity to discuss this climate ambition. I want to repeat once again, as others have done, that we must be proud to live in a country in which 75,000 citizens have mobilized to send a clear, strong and hopeful message for the future of the planet about stronger ambitions on the climate floor. A few days ago, in the context of the debate here in Parliament, I also received this message from various banks, both from the majority and from the opposition, and certainly from the younger generation, who expressed the hope of showing greater ambition in climate terms and taking greater account of the crucial need for the future. An important point on which everyone or almost everyone here in the assembly agrees is the fact that our country has supported the Paris agreements. That is a first important step. A few years ago, on behalf of Belgium, I was also present at the One Planet Summit after the Paris agreements to show our political goals and commitments. However, everyone here in the assembly also knows that in our country and in our institutional model there is a division of powers in terms of climate policy. Part of it lies with the Federal Parliament and the Federal Council of Ministers. A large part and many tools and levers lie with the Länder, which have a lot of powers in this area, which they can use if they so wish and want to make that choice. Ladies and gentlemen, that once again gives me the opportunity to improve information on the latest directive. It wasn't the federal government's choice to make the support impossible. It was the result of the impossibility of reaching an agreement within the inter-federal framework. But what matters, and I want to stress this again here, is that this directive will apply to us. It will have to be transposed at home. We will ensure, within the scope of federal responsibilities, which is quite limited on this subject, that we do our work so that this directive can really be implemented. Finally, last week, well before – it should be noted – the interesting and useful debates this morning in committee, Belgium, within the Benelux framework, supported an important declaration. This is the Talanoa Declaration which puts us in the extremely ambitious group of countries with this long-term objective of carbon neutrality, which is in line with what was undoubtedly mentioned in committee this morning in terms of ambition. I now turn to some of the points that have been proposed. Firstly, the debate that took place at the committee meeting this morning is most likely a result of the positive and constructive debate that we held in plenary last Wednesday. Our exchange of views has led to an evolution in the various positions, not only at government level, but also at the level of Members of Parliament. I confirm that resolution is another strong signal to the federal government. I therefore confirm that we will make every effort to defend that resolution at European and international level. That means that we support that position with the federal government. Tomorrow, Wednesday, a meeting of the Consultative Committee is scheduled. We will then seize the opportunity to have an open conversation with our colleagues from the state governments. Quite specifically, if we set more ambitious targets at European and international level, then I think that we in Belgium too should be coherent at federal level, but also in the Länder. So, in my view, that offers an opportunity to move in the direction of my statements last week. I proposed that we approve our climate plan as soon as possible. There is a deadline because we must present our interfederal climate strategy at European level by the end of this year. We shall therefore do so; I express that hope and wish. The federal government will propose this in the Conciliation Committee. Let's send our climate plan, the National Energy-Climate Plan, before December 31. But let's decide! This will be the purpose of the proposal which will be presented to the Conciliation Committee. Let us also decide to strengthen this Plan immediately. Let us immediately get to work to see what credible and quantified measures are possible in order to make an additional effort and to continue the debate in Parliament in this context. A number of additional points. I respect the parliamentary debate, but the picture that this government has not done anything for the climate for four years is, in my view, not in line with reality. I would nevertheless like to give some concrete examples. First, the fact that we chose to resolve this issue of burden sharing (which was not simple because it was impossible for years) in order to identify the share of each federal and federated entity was extremely important. Let us acknowledge that, for years, it has not been possible to have an agreement in this country in terms of burden sharing. This was a difficult, heated and intense discussion, but an agreement was finally reached. Secondly, with regard to renewable energy, it is mainly offshore wind that is at stake in the federal framework. Admit that, here too, we have taken decisions that will allow, by 2030, to double capacity, the equivalent of four nuclear reactors by 2030. It is an extremely strong signal that has been sent, and it is, above all, measures that have been taken to reduce, in comparison with the previous situation, the impact on consumers' bills. This was an extremely important issue to take into account the question of the end of the month, in connection with the end of the world, which also meets the legitimate social ambitions that have been expressed. Another important and crucial point is the following. One of the priorities in my October declaration was the investment strategy. Our investment proposal has two main challenges: mobility and energy. Both are directly linked to our climate ambition. This is not just about words, communication or marketing, but about actions. As far as SNCB is concerned, there has been an increase in the number of passengers and in recent years there has been an increase in the number of passengers. This seems positive to me. Finally, as far as SNCB is concerned, everyone must acknowledge here that when we took up our duties, the funds to finance the work of the ER were empty. An additional EUR 1 billion was injected for the RER, but also to strengthen connections to the capital in the north of the country, towards Brussels. The work of the RER was finally able to resume as they were blocked – Mr Cheron, I know your determination in this matter – for a very long time. It is also an important point. We want to continue with an investment strategy on the subject. Let me give another example: the green bonds, the use of financial mechanisms to achieve a structural impact on climate policy. We are the second European country, one of the first to make this choice internationally, with an impact of EUR 4.5 billion. That is a very concrete effect. This is a very strong encouragement to take greater account of the climate and to take decisions in this area. I could add other measures, such as the increase in biofuels. I could also add the management of storage and demand for which the regulations that have been taken are often cited as examples in other European countries. Finally, I could mention the question of the circular economy that was already discussed last week. I repeat that conviction. This is a real opportunity to support the competitive capacity of our companies, better managing the issue of materials and ensuring that a virtuous approach can be stimulated. I also take into account the very important debates which have been conducted but which, unfortunately, have not yet been concluded in terms of obsolescence. Perhaps the future will allow it. It is also a fact on which we are certainly ready to work and move forward. Two more important points. We have our institutional model in Belgium. Over the last four years, this government has chosen not to have a new institutional crisis, but to focus on socio-economic reforms and to engage in social engagement. The relationship between the Länder and the federal government is, of course, a structural challenge in terms of the climate in Belgium. I welcome the interesting slope proposed by the various Energy Ministers in the Länder and at federal level to set up an inter-federal agency, not with the aim of creating an additional structure, but to make cooperation with and coordination between the federal level and the Länder more efficient and optimized. This is perhaps also an opportunity that the Consultative Committee can look into in future with Parliament and the Länder. We also welcome the proposal made by one of the regional governments to consider, within the Consultation Committee, the possibility of introducing Belgium's candidacy for COP26. It would be an expression of a strong ambition that would reflect the call heard from the tens of thousands of citizens who walked in peace and respect in Brussels. I am very proud to live in a country where 75,000 citizens have mobilized for the climate. It is 70,000 more than those who, in violence, have mobilized against the effective management of migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u17	Prime Minister, I listened very carefully to your speech. But rail cuts are three billion euros. It's not the PS who says it, it's the Court of Auditors. Under your government, the ER's work has been blocked for three years. These are truths and realities. Prime Minister, COP24 has just closed its doors. The least we can say is that Belgium will not have taken advantage of this conference to get out of the retrograde position it has displayed for several months on climate issues. I am hurting my Belgium when I see that our country refuses European directives to reduce energy consumption and increase clean energy. But I take note of your positive commitment to the application of these directives to us. I am hurting my Belgium when I see that the majority of Parliament is calling for a stronger and faster climate, but that your government is still lagging behind, even though the tone of your speech has been more positive in the last few days. I am hurting my Belgium when 75 000 people protest for the climate but there is no systematic and positive will to bring about concrete and practical solutions. I am hurting my Belgium when I see that we refuse to finance the rail properly. I hear you tell us today that you are open to changing climate ambitions. On the other hand, I didn't hear you say you were going to amend the 2019 budget. So you clearly refuse to give new means to act for the climate. That is why our group is tabling a motion which clearly asks that our country step out of its backward position to join the European countries' leading climate group. This motion also asks you to review the 2019 budget to be consistent with this increase in ambitions, and to stop austerity policies that attack the rail. I table this motion with the Chair.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u18	Prime Minister, two points of your speech have caught my attention. On the one hand, at the beginning and end of your intervention, you referred to the 75,000 demonstrators. I just want to say one thing: they're not going to let you go! They were there on the 2nd of December. They are still there today, in smaller groups, around the street of the Law. I think I am not mistaken in saying that they will still be there as long as the measures are not taken. Of course, and as I myself pointed out in my speech, the resolution that was adopted this morning is interesting. It is even necessary to set a course. But what is at stake is, of course, the courage in the measures to be taken to achieve the objectives set out in this resolution. As you said, and from this point of view you are right, it concerns the federal government as well as the different regional governments, and even the communal executive. It is known that 60% of measures to combat climate change can be taken at the municipal level. My first point was to stress the fact that those people who walked in Brussels peacefully, as you said, will not let you down. The second point, and I like to stress it, is that you have had to show that, in fact, Europe has been able to take a position despite Belgium's negative vote. Fortunately, Europe still exists in this kind of situation! It is a discourse that goes beyond the climate issue, even though, as I said, the climate issue is central. I would like to point out that countries such as Belgium are going wrong, in this case, as in the last two votes pointed out by our colleague Senesael earlier in the gallery, both on energy efficiency and on renewable energy. These votes were very bad votes in the head of Belgium, but Europe was able to force Belgium to go beyond its vote. Indeed, as you said, Belgium will have to apply what has been decided at European level. This is our vision of Europe. Our demand now is for Belgium to regain its place in the positive momentum that Europe can bring. To be in the back, to be braked, to be blocked, it only lasted too long! If we want to provide a positive response and project to Europeans - not just Belgians but Europe as a whole - it is necessary for Belgium to regain its place in the cockpit of the European Union, particularly in the field of energy and climate. If the Minister of Defence listens with one ear, that of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I think he will pay attention to the message I have delivered here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u19	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understood your tone correctly, it's really time to start and move to the higher speed in terms of climate. We've done some things, it's true, but we have to do more and better. It is therefore time to change certain behaviours. COP24 is over. We weren't on the date. There is no need to go back because we have mentioned it sufficiently. With regard to the interparliamentary resolution of 25 October and all the items programmed, we were also not decisively involved in the actions. Prime Minister, this morning's resolution, when adopted in plenary, is a new challenge to government and Parliament. The challenge will be to be at the meeting of the climate and the planet, with the implementation of the amendment I tabled this morning on the means to be provided for this new policy. It is necessary to make sustainable and sustainable decisions by families. We must be at the rendezvous of these people, like the 75,000 demonstrators who walked on December 2nd. This appointment is called mobility, energy, housing. I think there are many decisions to make. We must live up to these challenges, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u20	Prime Minister, you are proud to have seen 75,000 climate protesters march in Belgium. I would remind you that these demonstrators were running against your passivity, against the passivity of your government and the Belgian authorities. Indeed, you do nothing or practically nothing. And when you act, it's sometimes even worse, like when you cut down on SNCB's staffing. It should be recalled that, under your government, CO2 emissions have not fallen less rapidly; they have started to rise again, Prime Minister! The easy alibi is institutional. I'd still like to understand. All the parties here - apart from the PTB - have always supported regionalisations and all state reforms. Now you see that this is a problem. Indeed, regionalization is a source of blockade and a source of division of the people. Indeed, it is always easy to say that nothing can be done on one point because it is the responsibility of another level. We know the technique and, for the climate, you also use it. Your record is catastrophic! The best example is that of SNCB. If there is a lever that you have as a federal power, since you say the rest is for the Regions, it was the SNCB. You have reduced its allocation by three billion and you have decided on insignificant investments compared to the plan previously planned, even though it is true that the previous governments had already attacked it. What did you do in return? You used an alibi climate to increase fuel taxes, especially the diesel ratchet system that is as ineffective as it is antisocial. You can see it with the yellow vest movement. You also quote the National Pact for Strategic Investments. What is it? That's all the power in private. In fact, we received two representatives who came to present him to the House - a leader of the Voka and a leader of the FEB! It was quite exemplary! This plan does indeed involve giving full power to the private sector at the management and funding levels. It is the orientation towards the needs of the private sector and not to the needs of the population or to the needs of the planet. The fundamental problem of this or these governments is that all environmental policy is market-based. We trust the market. The market will solve everything but, in fact, the market did not work! In conclusion, Prime Minister, I quote once again from Greta Thunberg, the fifteen-year-old Swedish woman at COP24: "The necessary change will happen. It will happen whether you like it or not. The real power belongs to the people and it is the people who will change you."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u21	Prime Minister, I welcome your enthusiasm, I welcome your commitment, I am pleased that you are defending your higher climate ambition, but it is too late. After four years, your government has finally shown some climate ambition. For four years we have heard you say nothing about this and nothing has changed, but now you have come to say that you have a higher ambition. Your commitment just now does not reflect at all the actions of your government over the past four years. Prime Minister, we have, even in recent weeks, voted against a number of European directives that are more energy-efficient and involve a number of renewable energy issues. We expect you and the government, now and in the future, to take effective action, but not just words, in formulating vague ambitions. That is why, Prime Minister, we are also tabling a motion, which I will hand over to the President in a moment, asking for it to be put into practice. Again, it's more than five to twelve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u22	Colleagues, following the inquiries, any member who wishes to do so will be able to speak for a maximum of five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u23	Mr President, I will not need five minutes. I was grateful to the committee this morning for the broad support that our resolution received from the majority colleagues. But I am especially grateful to all those who have been putting the pressure on this theme for a long time and who have been very disappointed over the past four years. They were also very disappointed with Katowice's results and are now asking for a change of course. This morning, the committee made that commitment. The Minister has also indicated that she will take our resolution to conciliation tomorrow. I have heard from the Prime Minister that he too has made that commitment. The motion that Mr Nollet has just tabled takes back the text of our resolution. After four and a half years, this is finally a unique opportunity not only to save our face internationally but also to assume our historical responsibility for the generations after us. The call we are calling for today with this resolution is a question of cooperation. Grandparents and children left together in the parade in Brussels. We saw that companies and civil society have been united for years, for example in an organisation like The Shift. The sense of urgency that lives with them has been absent from this House for a very long time. I am therefore pleased that a switch has taken place this morning, and I would very much like it to be translated not only into words and resolutions but also into deeds. In this respect, Prime Minister, I would like to reassure you. There is indeed a large majority in Flanders for an ambitious climate policy. It is not because the Flemish government is blocking climate policy that there would not be a majority in favour of the population, businesses and civil society. I therefore expect you to make the voice of that majority available at the conciliation table tomorrow and to indicate that this issue is widely shared across the various regions. This is not a Community theme. This is the question to what extent politics wants to translate this theme into policy at regional, regional and federal level. It is not because the Flemish Government wants to remain deaf that we cannot go any further. The voice of citizens must be translated into policy. That too is working together. Our citizens, our businesses and civil society are already doing it, and they are now expecting this from politics. The Flemings want this, no matter who's blocking it. Let the words follow action now. Let us seize the opportunity to make this a success story for our economy. We know that EUR 1 billion is spent every day in Europe on energy. Every day! Imagine that we would not have to pay that amount to foreign dictatorial powers but could reinvest in the European economy, as well as in our economy. What opportunities could that bring? I would therefore ask you to look to the future during these debates and these consultations, to look to what we need to achieve flourishing companies and a thriving society. A society in which our agriculture does not moan under the drought. A society in which our companies and the most vulnerable among us do not have to deal with the impact of climate change over and over again. Mr Prime Minister, bearing in mind the letters of two weeks ago, the next generations will be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps each of us is concerned about the climate. And everyone knows that it hasn't been five to twelve in that area in a long time. Each of us wants the objectives of the Treaty of Paris to be achieved, as this is clearly stated in the interparliamentary climate resolution which approved not only this Parliament but all the parliaments of our country. But the clock is ticking and we all know by now that we will not achieve the objectives set out in the Paris Convention on CO2 reduction. 75 000 people came to the streets for more climate ambition, but the Katowice Summit showed that, unfortunately, Belgium does not belong to the group of more ambitious countries. Colleagues, CD&V cannot ignore all these signals. That is why we agreed this morning to strengthen our objectives and make them more ambitious. This is an important first step, but steps still need to be taken. All objectives must now be translated into concrete actions. However, we cannot do that alone, for that reason, we must work with the regions, with families and with companies. Converting the objectives into concrete actions will take a lot of courage and will require broad support. Without support, it won't work. Everyone must come along and each of us will have to make efforts to adapt his and her behavior. And we must be honest: we will not save the climate with hollow slogans. We will also have to be honest about the cost. This too is a matter of concern to families and businesses, and we must take these concerns to heart. We at CD&V want to continue to take responsibility and put our shoulders under an ambitious and concrete climate and energy plan. We want to do this, because it's for our children and our grandchildren. We give you a reliable partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the interparliamentary climate resolution, we have resisted signs. If the Ecolo Group states that the most ambitious text across Europe is the text that is adopted in this Chamber, which makes CO2 emissions the target of 95 per cent, then there is no doubt that we are making progress. The strengthening of the objectives, as stated in the Interparliamentary Climate Resolution and with which we have opposed beacons, was subject to very important conditions. For example, the Court has ruled that interim objectives should be formulated on the basis of an environmental impact report and a socio-economic impact analysis. What happened today? What is the difference in the new text? The new text makes the impact analysis unnecessary! What the MR has fought so hard for in the interparliamentary climate talks is now being deleted. Colleagues, a climate policy with a reduction in CO2 emissions is done by taking measures, not by discussing the percentage. This is only done when the measures are being implemented. The Prime Minister has not unjustly cited a number of measures approved by the previous government. I am referring, for example, to the measure relating to the 4 gigawatt to offshore windmills or the green bonds issued by former Minister Van Overtveldt, in cooperation with Minister Marghem. The fact that a debate is now taking place here on the subject of.55 %, while additional measures should not be discussed, frightens me. Indeed, I have hardly heard the Prime Minister say how we will achieve this objective. Mr de Lamotte proposed earlier that the necessary resources should be set against the objectives set out in the resolution. Mrs Dierick has already indicated that investment will have to be made. But once there is an amendment to the motion for a resolution to that effect, it is rejected. We want more ambition, but we do not want additional resources. What does the Minister say when it comes to that? It states that the government sets the objectives, but that the Regions will have to implement them. That's what this is about. Colleagues, it is a story that we all have to tackle together. It is not merely a matter of stating that the federal level sets the objectives and transfers responsibility and costs to the regions. We are not cooperating on such a policy, on this kind of federalism. So we abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution. We believe, after all, that, when setting higher objectives, which we supported in the interparliamentary resolution, this must be done on an informed basis. In the debate it is argued that such a policy will improve socio-economically, but we do not dare to calculate it, we do not dare to make an impact analysis, because we fear that this will go wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference between the interparliamentary resolution and what has been adopted today is that realism has disappeared. We no longer need an impact analysis; only the figures count and the others have to do it. We're not going in that story. Madam Secretary, you have said that whoever says "A" must also say "B." You say "A" and you expect the Regions to say "B." That kite won't fly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say to this House that my colleague Wollants' remarks do not correspond to what was said this morning. Mr Wollants, I'm sorry to say that you've tampered with reality. It is always a little too bad to have to repeat in plenary what has been said in committee. So I repeat exactly what I said this morning so that everyone can enjoy it. First, there was a question of socio-economic impact assessment in relation to the ambitious commitments we had to make or not. This impact assessment is still required. On the other hand - and that is what you did not want to hear this morning, Mr Wollants - we are extremely sensitive, as several colleagues have said, to the call of the 75,000 people who walked on the street and who called for a rapid movement for the climate. I was one of them, as were many colleagues in the assembly. We can only congratulate ourselves on that. Mr. Nollet, you said that these 75,000 people will not forget us and will not let us go. Indeed, we are aware of this and that is why we are starting from the principle that we must move forward. Secondly, in the meantime, we have received the IPCC analysis, which showed us, although we can still discuss up to 1 or 2 per cent, that it is high time to move forward with figures that needed to be revised upwards by 2030-2050. This is the most ambitious approach. Thirdly, in Katowice, some additional elements have been put on the table and oblige us to be even more ambitious. That is why we are taking on our responsibilities now. Mr Wollants, you did not want to hear it this morning in committee, but the truth is there. That is what we have taken as our position together. Of course, we regret that you abstained, which clearly means that your ambition is not in line with ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u27	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Daniel Senesael, Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Laurent Devin and reads as follows: The Chamber, Mr Daniel Senesael, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Michel de Lamotte and Mr Marco Van Hees and Mrs Karin Temmerman and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government - support a tightening up of European targets to reduce European greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 emissions; - finalise the Integrated National Energy Climate Plan (NEKP) in line with the strengthening of the European targets to reduce European greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 and 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 emissions; - adapt the 2019 budget in line with those strengthened objectives, in particular to put an end to the savings policy that undermines the railways." A first motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Daniel Senesael, Ms. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr. Laurent Devin and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Daniel Senesael, Jean-Marc Nollet, Michel de Lamotte and Marco Van Hees and Ms. Karin Temmerman and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - support an upward revision of the European targets to achieve a 55% reduction in European emissions by 2030 and 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 emissions; - finalise the National Integrated Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) in line with the upward revision of the European targets to achieve a 55% reduction in European emissions by 2030 and 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 emissions; - to amend the 2019 budget in line with this increase in ambitions in order in particular to stop austerity policies that attack the rail." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Georges Gilkinet and reads as follows: The Chamber, Mr Daniel Senesael, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Michel de Lamotte and Mr Marco Van Hees and Mrs Karin Temmerman and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government - to advocate to the ad hoc bodies and to the meetings devoted to them: 1. that Belgium should join the coalition of those countries that advocate an immediate increase in the European greenhouse gas reduction targets by 2030; 2. that Belgium, at European level, would advocate a target for greenhouse gas reductions of at least 55% by 2030 and at least 95% by 2050, compared to 1990 emissions; - also call for a rapid adaptation of the 2030 National Energy Climate Plan (NEKP) so as to: 1. define, in accordance with the interparliamentary climate resolution adopted by the relevant Parliaments, a trajectory and measures; 2. it is compatible with the mechanisms for reviewing the level of ambition provided for in the Paris Agreement, so that the NEFP can be adapted once the European targets for 2030 and 2050 have been revised." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Jean-Marc Nollet, Ms. Meyrem Almaci, MM. Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet and read as follows: The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Daniel Senesael, Jean-Marc Nollet, Michel de Lamotte and Marco Van Hees and Ms. Karin Temmerman and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government - to plead in the ad hoc bodies and at meetings devoted to them: 1. for Belgium to join the coalition of countries calling for an immediate increase in the European greenhouse gas reduction targets by 2030; 2. for Belgium to advocate at European level for a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 % by 2030 and by at least 95 % by 2050 compared to 1990 emissions; - to advocate for the rapid adaptation of the National Energy-Climate Plan 2030 (PNEC) in such a way that it 1. define a path and measures in line with the inter-parliamentary resolution on the climate adopted by each parliament concerned; 2. be compatible with the mechanisms for revising the level of ambition provided for in the Paris Agreement in such a way that, once the 2030 and 2050 European targets have been revised, the PNEC is adapted." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karin Temmerman and reads as follows: The Chamber, Mr Daniel Senesael, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Michel de Lamotte and Mr Marco Van Hees and Mrs Karin Temmerman and the Prime Minister's reply, calls on the Government At European level: 1. Implement the Interparliamentary Climate Resolution of 10 October 2018 on this issue and join the coalition of European Member States calling for a tightening of the European 2030 target to at least 55% emission reduction; 2. Explicitly support the European Commission's long-term vision of 28 November 2018 to make the European economy climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. In Belgium: 1. Develop and submit to Parliament a special law on inter-federal climate management which sets out the path towards zero emissions by 2050; 2. Adopt a more ambitious version of the National Energy and Climate Plan in the Consultation Committee so that it can be delivered to the European Commission by 31/12; 3. Reconfirm the core exit by 2025 at the latest and include the legally established exit calendar in the national energy and climate plan; 4. Express a declaration of commitment to ensure that the overall energy bill of the most vulnerable families is not further increased and that all future climate measures ensure fair burden-sharing, so that the strongest shoulders bear the greatest burden and ensure that the revenues and benefits of an ambitious climate policy can be spread across the population; 5. To reduce VAT on electricity from 21% to 6%; 6. To take an exemplary role as a government by working on a thorough energy efficiency of government buildings and by adopting a circular purchasing policy." A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karin Temmerman and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the questionings of Messrs. Daniel Senesael, Jean-Marc Nollet, Michel de Lamotte and Marco Van Hees and Ms. Karin Temmerman and the Prime Minister's response, asks the government At European level: 1. To implement on this point the inter-parliamentary resolution on the climate of 10 October 2018 and to join the coalition of EU Member States calling for the strengthening of the 2030 European target of a reduction of emissions by at least 55%; 2. To explicitly support the long-term vision formulated by the European Commission on 28 December 2018, which sets the objective of a climate-neutral European economy by 2050 at the latest. In Belgium: 1. Develop and submit to Parliament a special law on climate management defining the path towards zero emissions by 2050; 2. To approve to the Concerted Committee a more ambitious version of the National Energy-Climate Plan, so that it can be presented before 31 December to the European Commission; 3. To reconfirm the release of nuclear energy by 2025 at the latest and to include the nuclear release schedule set out in the National Energy-Climate Plan; 4. To make an explicit commitment to end the increase in the total energy bill of the most vulnerable households and to ensure, in all future climate measures, that the burden is shared equitably so that the heavier burdens are borne by the strongest shoulders and to ensure, in addition, that the product and benefits arising from an ambitious climate policy can benefit the entire population; 5. Reduce the rate of VAT on electricity from 21 % to 6 %; 6. To set an example as a state by working towards maximum energy efficiency in public buildings and implementing a circular purchasing policy." The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u28	I am going back to what was agreed in the Conference of Presidents. The first interrogator, Mr Calvo, has a maximum of twenty minutes; the others, ten minutes. The government has forty minutes, but it does not have to take all this time to provide the answers. After the Government's reply, speaking time is five minutes for the replies and five minutes for those who wish to join.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, our group is pleased that the climate is so central, at last, I would say. Let's face it, a government of failings can hardly save the planet. So if we really want to achieve all the ambitions for which there has just been a very broad consensus and for which you have expressed your support, then we must also have a serious debate on the political situation. I believe that the current political situation is unsustainable. One of our colleagues, mostly absent here, motivated us last Friday to conduct today's debate very thoroughly and, above all, here in the Chamber. Mr De Wever is, of course, absent today. Although today, with all media interest, it seems almost like a television studio, contempt for our parliamentary democracy prevails. We were able to hear that disdain from him on Friday. Bart De Wever said: "One," by which he means you, Prime Minister, "is now in all openness my puppet. You really need to come and ask me. It's really from Antwerp that I'll do something like that." (Mr Calvo, like a Roman emperor, makes the thumb up-thumb down-sight) Colleagues of N-VA, we do not live in an empire, but in a parliamentary democracy. If Mr De Wever wishes to talk about the future of the current government, I invite him here in Parliament, because for the time being he is only a Member of Parliament, let us keep it that way, especially one of the 150 Members of Parliament. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group regards such statements, declarations of war, as an invitation to take charge. We feel called upon to take the lead in Parliament's lap. After all, Parliament will have to take the lead in getting out of the impasse. That is not a reproach, it is simple mathematics: a climate coalition with a two-thirds majority offers a lot of opportunities, while with a minority government of one in three there is very little possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we have shown this in the last two weeks. Twice this Parliament has taken the liberty of deciding things. Twice, ladies and gentlemen, to the annoyance of the N-VA and the Flemish Interest, this parliamentary freedom has brought about progress. Colleagues of the N-VA, that frustrates you, because you were hoping that sabotage would lead to a total standstill. But I tell you, we are not waiting for you, we are not just watching the pyromaniacs organize the chaos in this country. We have done this here in Parliament first with the migration pact and this morning with the climate objectives. People notice it, people get nervous about it. 4.5 years the N-VA was raised with the idea that a thumb up or a thumb down from Antwerp determines everything. Well, Parliament has now twice raised a firm middle finger. We have said that we are moving forward, that we are going to realise our ambitions. Colleagues, why did we do that? We have done so because there is a great deal of support for this outside. No group can claim the monopoly to speak on behalf of the people. No group can do that. Not us, but not the N-VA either. Ladies and gentlemen, outside there is a silent majority asking this Parliament for six more months to decide. It is these 75 000 people who have come to the streets for the climate. 75 000, which is a multiple of Theo Francken's fan club last Sunday. It is people who do not break down anything, who leave benches and chairs in the city, who travel through Brussels and leave the streets cleaner than when they arrived, who do not break down but build something. Prime Minister, it is all those people who are working in our country, including last Sunday. When about 100 hooligans set our capital on stilts, there were real football enthusiasts all over the country working as referee, as a steward, as a volunteer in the cafeteria, because they want to take care of each other, because they want this country to run. Prime Minister, these people don't always come out on the street. They don't yell, but they deserve to be heard. Our appeal to you and to colleagues is to mean something for this tacit majority in the next six months, instead of following the example of the N-VA as a political class, and to make politics a source of irritation, frustration, colère and despair, with this Parliament as a source of hope and perspective. But, Prime Minister, there must be a great deal of change. We can't do that with a government of business endings. We cannot do that with the policy of the past four and a half years. As much as we want to work together, as sincere as our message is, our outstretched hand is not a naive outstretched hand, it is not a blank cheque. It is a question for you to fundamentally change this policy on a number of points. Not only in terms of climate: we, ecologists, care about the planet, but we care about people just as well. We think the future is very important, what happens tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, but what is decided in this country today for people who are having a hard time worries us equally and concerns us equally. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we shall initially vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. I would like to stress that first of all. That motion of recommendation asks you to say and clarify, without reservation, here in this gallery that you are prepared to change your policy on a number of points. Climate policy, in line with the resolution we will be voting on. But not only the resolution, but also concrete plans. Take, for example, the national climate and energy action plan, where the level of ambition should be higher. The mobility policy before us, ladies and gentlemen, is not the breakthrough we need to achieve. That is a first point on which we demand a clear commitment from you, otherwise cooperation will not succeed. A second point is the work deal. I understand that Kris Peeters has not yet completed his homework on the degressivity of unemployment benefits. Mr Peeters, don't rush. You should not put yourself at the desk to push people into poverty even more. You just have to say, "I'm free of that N-VA carcan. I am freed from colleagues who think that an empty stomach helps people to apply, so I just don't do that." That is a second point on which we ask you to be fearfully clear and to change your policy. A third point, that eternal promise. Colleague Verherstraeten, Rerum Novrum ten years ago. Yves Leterme said: "I have two election promises: Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde and the raising of benefits to the poverty line." We solved Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde, even without them: they couldn't solve that either, where they also ran away from the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u30	But that second election promise, Mr Verherstraeten, has still not been implemented. That is the third point on which we ask this minority to make a clear statement. If you don't, it won't work together. A fourth point is an encouragement to Mrs De Block. Mrs. De Block, don't apologize if you want to be cordial and human. Know that a lot of people support you when you decide to delete the asylum quotas. Know that a lot of people, including commuters and bus drivers in Brussels, actually want you to organise and solve the crisis shelter instead of organising it as Theo Francken did. You've started out well as Secretary of State ad interim, but you'll be scared off at once. You thought I must be harsh. That is the fourth point in which we are calling for a firm stance. You will then find an ally in us, because it is not possible for people to be left to their fate in our capital in this way. Prime Minister, we are expressing our demands here openly, not in an Atoma paper, not at a meeting table on which you apparently only wanted to sit with the N-VA this weekend. I honestly don't understand that. You have heard a number of other groups: Mrs Kitir, Mr Laaouej, Mrs Fonck, the constructive people of this Half-Round. You invited them once for a non-binding conversation and afterwards you went camping at the N-VA for an entire weekend. I don't understand. Hence our openness, our demands, our desires, our ambitions. You may have noticed the differences with the demands of the N-VA colleagues. The differences are fairly clear. This makes the choice very clear for the Prime Minister, but also for the Flemish Liberals and the Flemish Christian Democrats. Either you choose to continue this N-VA policy with a party that doesn't really want to do policy, but is already in campaign mode. Either you choose to achieve a number of breakthroughs with a coalition of the willing in this Parliament, things that should actually be close to what liberals and Christian Democrats want to do with this country over the next six months. Hence the choice we propose to you. We say it much nicer than last Friday at The Appointment. You don't have to be our puppet at all, we can work together in a respectful way, but you have to make a choice and you have to make that choice today. Prime Minister, our group believes that this situation is unsustainable. Either you are looking for a way to work with us or with others. That cooperation must be sincere and more than a non-binding tea party. Or you could go to the King. You can accept the outstretched hand of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking ecologists to really change your policy. After all, we are not just going to break down your policy, we are not going to make peace with a number of climate crumbs. We really want to change things and really mean something to this country over the next six months. So the choice is yours. Either you grasp that outstretched hand or you oblige us to support the motion of censure announced by colleagues. However, it does not have to come that far for us. For us this is not a motion to send you away and to organize even more uncertainty, it comes because this current policy deserves a vote of no confidence. The way in which you, MR, Open Vld and CD&V, have done politics lately, deserves a vote of no confidence. So there is a choice, for cooperation or to go to the King and get into ongoing business. We do not want a government of still things, we want a Parliament of important things. You must make that choice with us, and you must do so today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon I had the impression that I had arrived in the year 1453. Then what happened? In 1453, the Turks stood in front of Constantinople. Islam besieged the capital of Christianity, Constantinople, nowadays called wrongly Istanbul. What were the leaders, the priests and the nobles of Constantinople debating when the Turks stood at the gates? That was about the family of angels. You know the story. That is also what we have just done, as a result of the Climate Action Plan. We have saved the world quickly, and we are not even able to put our own house in order. That is what we will do in this debate, in which we will talk about all kinds of legal and technical matters, such as the question of whether or not the government is legitimate, whether it should move on to current matters or be better brought down. However, today we should be talking about what the crisis finally started, namely the Marrakesh Pact, on which your servant questioned here a month and a week ago alone the Prime Minister, after which the N-VA saw the light a few weeks later, jumped into the cart of the protest and, rightly, committed her cooperation with the government to our protest against the Marrakesh Pact, for which I also thank the N-VA. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something that has apparently been completely forgotten in the media, but not in public opinion, both of which are different things nowadays. Tomorrow, in New York, the famous Marrakech Pact, on which it was all about, will be approved, perhaps also, Mr Prime Minister, by our country, by our ambassador. That is what the debate must ultimately be about, because you cannot and must not continue to ignore the protest against the Marrakesh Pact, in particular, against mass immigration, which is, of course, about the multicultural culture that you have forced on the people for so long. Last Sunday, it was mentioned here by Mr Calvo, who with his troops could hardly mobilise 1 000 men in the Maximilian Park, including illegals, almost 10 000 people have come to Brussels to argue here, despite a ban that existed until the day before the demonstration and despite intimidation, insults and descriptions such as 'brown march'. Of course, Parliament, followed by mainstream media, will like to compromise the demonstration with a number of riots that have been there. The demonstration is classified as hooliganism, extreme right-wing and irrelevant. Of course, that's easy. You know, however, that it is not right. The protest against the Marrakech Pact and against mass migration is supported by large sections of the population. You are also afraid to go to the electorate, because you realise that if there are elections now, they will be a referendum on the Marrakesh Pact, on mass migration, on your migration policy and on Theo Francken's migration policy. That policy was a policy that was less strict than the policies in the countries that are today opposed to the Marrakesh Pact. I am thinking of Italy, Austria, Hungary and the United States. Prime Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to return to the famous march against Marrakesh. Of course, I don't approve of the violence and the riots. Let that be said clearly. I reject any form of violence. However, I also reject any form of injustice. Everyone in the city of Brussels can apparently argue with the approval of PS mayors and prime ministers, from the PKK on Sharia for Belgium to illegal immigrants. However, when citizens rise up against mass migration, multiculture and Islamisation and therefore reject the Marrakech Pact, their demonstration is banned and stigmatized. It is then provoked, by throwing out that it is a brown march and that the participants are all fascists and related. We are then surprised that, despite all the prohibitions, ten thousand protesters show up. It is therefore surprising that, after the provocations of the police have done their job, there are unfortunately also riots at the end of the manifestation. However, may I point out that the riots are largely your responsibility and the responsibility of the PS mayor and Prime Minister of Brussels, who uses the police as his personal private militia, to provoke protesters? I heard it on the news yesterday. An agent was filmed secretly and eventually admitted what it was really about. He said the police should always stand aside, but when those protesters came, she had to knock on it. He admitted that "they" want as many people as possible in prison and as many arrests as possible. I am once again suing the policy of double standards and two weights in the chair. When Moroccan immigrant football supporters wounded 22 police officers after the World Cup, looted more than 20 stores and smashed and set fire to several police cars and cars, there were no arrests. Zero! None! When right-wing, identity, nationalist protesters enter the streets, there can be a maximum of violence used by the police and there are over 90 arrests. That's the difference in this country. The regime's darlings, Moroccan rioters, are allowed everything in Brussels, but Flemings who stand up for their own identity and culture are allowed very little. But we already knew that. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the protest against the Pact is just the tip of the iceberg. Today is about much more than the failure of the government. It is about the bankruptcy of multiculture and open border policy. It is about the crisis of the dictatorial European institutions, which decide above the heads of the people in the European Commission and its associates. It is also about the rejection of international organisations such as the United Nations, which consider themselves to be some sort of non-legitimate, non-democratic world government, and who are trying to push their open borders policy, their multicultural, globalising world view down the throat of the citizen. It is about the contradiction between the nation state on the one hand and the sovereignty of the nation states on the other, the UN-EU world government on the other; the difference between nationalism and identity, and globalism and multiculturality on the other. I read a remarkable interview from you last weekend, Mr. Geens. You symbolized the spirit of Marrakesh when you said: I am sure that the great challenge for humanity is to acquire the new reality of a globalising world, so that our old instincts change. Our group instinct, you called it, must gradually transform into a world citizenship and so now it comes, entirely in the vein of the Marrakech Pact, the people must be raised to be world citizens. That is, of course, what this is all about, Mr Geens, in your interview in De Standaard: people must be brought up to be world citizens, open to multiculture, to mass immigration, they must take over the globalising world. That may be the objective of a number of politicians, but it is not the objective of the man in the street, who has had enough of your elitist bullshit, of your almost painful way of indoctrinating people and telling them what to do or not. The political elite, Mr Geens, to which you belong, behaves like political ghost riders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u32	You still have a minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u33	You keep driving at 150 kilometers an hour, against the will of the people. The regime must realise that, even if any form of protest can be made with the matrak, water cannon and tear gas, the citizen cannot remain silent and certainly does not do so in the voting booth. Prime Minister, I advise you to put an end to it, rather today than tomorrow! Tomorrow, the Marrakech Pact will be approved or rejected by our government in New York. I think you should take credit for yourself. You must listen to what lives among the people. You must go to the King today to offer your resignation, so that this brutalized suicide pact is ultimately about this; that is what the crisis is not going to be approved in New York tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me take you back in time. What have we seen in the last four years of the bickering government MR, Open Vld, CD&V and N-VA? The retirement age has risen to 67 years, people have to work longer for less pensions. The electricity bill has been increased without us even having the assurance that this winter will keep the light on. You have asked for an extra contribution from the people, but not from the great abilities. The lives of a lot of people have been made harder by all these bill increases, an index jump and a stricter wage bill. In short, it was a four-year period of social degradation and rising inequality. Prime Minister, you chose a minority government a week ago, with only 30% support in Parliament, after N-VA left the government. What's left is chaos, your chaos. And it's still chaos. We've given you a week to discuss. You have mainly consulted with the right-wing parties, but nothing has changed. We have still not received a declaration of government, yet no plan, and no proposal has yet been made. Mr Prime Minister, last week Parliament adopted a motion asking for a clear plan to be presented and for Parliament's confidence to be called upon to do so. What's your answer to that? Will you just ignore that? Will you really take a majority decision in this House next to you? After four years of social degradation, you no longer have a majority today. Then the question is very simple. Will you continue that policy or not? The budget before us today is a continuation of that policy. We cannot approve them at all. The budget provides for a reduction in the benefits of jobseekers. Half the job seekers are already living in poverty. The present budget provides for a reduction in the minimum wage of young people, thereby reducing their rights. The budget makes it impossible for people with a heavy occupation to slow down from the age of 55. The budget does not contain any additional contributions from the major assets. This social breakdown has to stop. It is time for change, time for social policy. We therefore call for the social breakdown to stop and for the shift to be reversed, including by a VAT reduction on electricity from 21% to 6%, by a reduction in the hospital bill through the abolition of supplements, by a real margin of pay through a relaxation of the law, because it is high time that workers were also entitled to their share of economic growth, by a reduction in the retirement age to 65 years, by making workable work truly negotiable and by introducing an added value tax. Such a policy would once again provide security for the people, security for the cessation of social degradation, security for an increase in their wages and security for the reduction in their invoices. Prime Minister, our party has been very clear from day one: you cannot count on our support if it is intended to continue social degradation. We therefore ask you once again to be clear and to explain to us in detail what your plan is. As Prime Minister of an amended government, Parliament has asked you what you will do. For the moment, you have not answered that question and I find it somewhat hallucinating. I therefore ask you for a clear answer today. Are you proposing a plan and asking for the House's confidence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular, colleagues from the MR, the CD&V and the Open Vld, nine days ago, we called on you, Prime Minister, to change course. We met. We have shown a lot of openness. We have tabled our proposals. We have clearly placed the general interest ahead of small political games. Last Wednesday, your answer here in Parliament first and foremost was to thank the N-VA, to congratulate you for your excellent cooperation. Logically, you'll tell me when it comes to a marriage. But what marriage and at what price? From the beginning, your ally has made life difficult for you, maintaining relations with ancient collabos, questioning the values of human rights, refusing to take into account to their right the most serious perils that threaten humanity and especially climate, even questioning multilateralism, which alone makes it possible to deal with it. You have also made the choice sometimes of brutal, harsh measures, considering regularly, for example, that the sick and the disabled were first of all a very heavy burden, too heavy for the State. The fruit of your marriage is the accentuation of fear in our fellow citizens, the fear of social downgrading, the fear of losing what they have, the fear of the other and the foreigner. This fear is legitimate and must be heard. In times of profound change, citizens need to be reassured about their future. By playing on fears and having a hidden agenda, you and your N-VA allies have caused a lot of damage and you haven't been able to reassure those who needed it. There's been a lot of anicoches in your wedding. Your partner has made you suffer a lot of humiliation. Despite that, you held on, until he decided he had enough. And he started a divorce procedure of rare violence. Who can still believe that all this has not been carefully calculated, from the beginning, with incredible cynicism? This cynical calculation is accompanied by a theme – migration – and a pretext – the Pact. In short, the N-VA is seeking only one goal: its personal profit and, to do so, the sabotage of Belgium. To this end, an abhorrent campaign of false and manipulative images and slogans, with harsh and violent words, has been launched. Prime Minister, to tell you the truth, all this did not prevent you from continuing your reconciliation efforts to avoid divorce, even after the N-VA left the marital home. This weekend again, you were trying to save your marriage. But your efforts have received as the only answer a proposal to be reduced to a state of puppetry. It is never before seen: a government party that dares to announce such a will! When there is no more respect for a prime minister, there is no more respect for Belgium. Also this weekend, a former N-VA Secretary of State decided to support a demonstration of the far right, which consisted of a march spilling hatred and violence. And it's not over, since the N-VA has made your secret garden public: the famous Atoma notebook. It has disclosed the secret on which your couple has been able to live during all these years: that is, article 195 of the Constitution. The Community could have been put in the fridge, you said, but it was because the N-VA had obtained from you the sesame which gives access to the revision of the Constitution, according to a procedure still unknown – but unequivocal – on the part of the party which wanted to impose the harm of Belgium and the independence of Flanders. Prime Minister, your marriage to the N-VA has led to many injustices, increased fears and divorce – I said – of rare violence. The CDH wants to prevent this from leading, in the coming months, to a paralysis that would further penalise our fellow citizens. We also want to ensure that this does not lead to the confederalism so much desired by the N-VA. We ask for a change of course, in order to bring solutions for all Belgians. Indeed, several construction sites cannot wait. Our fellow citizens and businesses would not understand that they are simply put in the fridge in the coming months. We have already talked at length about the fight against global warming, but this is not the only concern of many Belgians, who are also worried about their future and their end of the month, for their health care, for their pensions and for the pace of their end of their careers. With regard to electricity (both for security and supply, but also in terms of energy and cost), we had reduced VAT to 6%, but you have increased it. There are also health, police and justice professionals, who, under pressure, no longer have the means to properly deliver the services they are responsible for. There are emergencies that cannot wait and answers that are expected by the citizen. For your part, on the side of your minority government, this remains the big blur. What is the program of your new government, Michel II? If we asked you to come and explain your project, it is because you owe transparency and clarity, not only to the opposition, but also to the general public. First and foremost, it is a matter of respect. Prime Minister, my questions are very simple: are you ready, yes or no, to come forward with proposals to break with the N-VA and begin the change of course demanded by the citizens? We have tabled proposals, we have put them on the table, we are putting them back here through a motion of recommendation, whether on purchasing power, health, pensions, justice, the police, energy, climate, mobility or the investment pact, and I am going through it. Are you prepared, yes or no, to close the opening that you have made to confederalism by accepting that article 195 of the Constitution be subject to revision? Are you prepared, yes or no, to choose not hatred, not fear, not violence, but rather a policy of humanity, justice, social equity and cooperation? These questions are simplistic. I ask you once again, not for me, nor for the opposition or the parliamentarians, but for the citizens, to be able to answer them very clearly. Today, it's up to you to make the choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, before speaking to you, I think it is to our fellow citizens. I am thinking first of all of our fellow citizens because of your failures a large part of their concerns and, in particular, of expensive life. While you were tearing yourself up with the N-VA with your "one day, they are good and the next day, bad", our fellow citizens witnessed a very sad spectacle. Your policy has been summed up, in recent weeks, but already long before that, in a very bad film, a film whose spectators (our fellow citizens) are losing. The days pass and your slurry gets worse. The problem is, it's not just you. No! The sad reality is that you are taking the whole country hostage. Because, in this crisis, there's someone in charge. This person in charge is you and what's left of your government. It is you, let's say, who led the country into this impasse, that of a minority government incapable of taking the necessary decisions under such circumstances. You, who, after a marriage of four and a half years (i.e. more than 1,500 days), a government with the N-VA, allowed this separatist party to impose its outrages, its offenses against your office and your authority. He was already doing so because of his participation in your majority. He continues outside, reducing you, no more or less, to the status of what he himself calls a puppet. No democrat can rejoice at this situation in which one can observe a political party being allowed to trample on our institutions while insulting a prime minister. You have also been, it must be recalled, their support for more than 1,500 days: 1,500 days of government during which they imposed a social policy of rare brutality, a government of battling taxes on consumption on an unprecedented scale, attacks on pensions of rare violence and cuts in the health care that our fellow citizens suffer every day. Of course I do not forget the index jumps and the disinvestment in the rail with a delay in the realization of the Walloon RER that is entirely attributable to you. As I said and said again, the lack of solutions to reduce the overflight of Brussels also shows how scorned Francophone interests have been. [[All this is already very serious.]] But what is even more so is the impunity enjoyed by some N-VA ministers. This N-VA you have allowed to tarnish our democracy, because they have spoken and they have taken contemptuous and despicable attitudes against some of our fellow citizens because of their descent, against lawyers, against magistrates, academics, the media and also non-governmental organizations. As a result, you are at the head of a government that has caused wounds and tears: democratic wounds and social tears. You had to be the custodian of the preservation of our democratic values. You did the opposite. You let the N-VA degrade them with impunity, allowing them to grow a sense of impunity, not to say invincibility. From this, you were of a rare complacency gradually becoming complicity. It is therefore up to us, in this Parliament, from week to week, to remind ourselves that democracy is something that is not reducible to the outrages of the N-VA. That is, of course, why we were appalled to hear you at this rostrum on Wednesday, 12 December, beginning with a thank-you statement addressed to the N-VA. You have, in short, moved from Swedish to Stockholm syndrome. The more they assaulted you, the more they insulted you, and the more you openly allegianced them. You are not the only one in your party to have done so, even though some seem to be slowly aware of the extent of your impasse. But as far as you're concerned, Mr. Michel, it's simply unheard of. While you were consulting or pretending to consult with democratic opposition parties to hear about our country's social, economic and climate emergencies, you were sending a new submission message to the N-VA. This is totally unacceptable to us. It is unacceptable to note that you are still continuing your negotiations with this party, which reveal in the open the terms of a secret notebook where you see their project threatening the integrity of our country. I am talking about their willingness to revise the Constitution. You said you put the community in the fridge. Well, the community is, on the contrary, what has sealed these four years during your government agreement and your political dependence. An agreement sealed in a notebook that to be secret is no less revealing. So tell us in this rostrum, Prime Minister, have you, yes or no, exchanged with the N-VA the constitution of your government for a secret agreement contained, says the N-VA, in an Atoma notebook? Tell us at this rostrum if you have re-created a political space to allow some to continue pushing the country towards division. What we are given to read and hear about this is unacceptable and it is up to you to deny it. Prime Minister, it is just as unacceptable that you have not yet been heard about your willingness to break with the brutal social policy of your right-wing government. Your ride has been going on for days and we see nothing concrete against expensive living, the price of electricity, the price of fuel at the pump, health care, environmental challenges. We do not see anything at this stage! Nothing, because you've continued to negotiate with the N-VA and no one's fooled. Since you do not do this, we will tell you the priorities, the demands to give hope to the people, the concrete measures our fellow citizens expect. Lower VAT to 6% on electricity, reduce excise taxes that penalise workers who, on a daily basis, have to go to work, give back hope to workers by returning to your decision to raise the retirement age to 67! The 65-year-old pension is what the representatives of millions of workers and the workers themselves are asking for. Hear this message, Mr. Michel! Guarantee for a full career a minimum pension of 1,500 euros! Fight real insecurity by bringing the lowest social benefits to at least 110 per cent of the poverty line. On this subject, give back to SNCB the 3 billion you took from it because the public service is also the wealth of households! Fold the health care budget in which you cut more than $2 billion by reducing the growth standard to 3%! Make it go from 1.5% to 3%, which is what we are asking you very specifically. This will help lower the price of certain medicines and reduce the health care bill of many of our fellow citizens. Also send a clear message to the workers by ensuring a real margin of wage progression and returning to your new projects concerning pre-pensions, salary scales and, of course, the degressiveness of unemployment benefits! Make legal aid free and strengthen the resources made available to the police through greater recruitment of police officers! There are 3,700 missing police officers. This, Prime Minister, would meet social, societal emergencies! That is what would allow you to mark a policy of rupture! So, Prime Minister, show us, show us that you are not just trying to save the face of your minority government. Show us today your true determination. Ask for confidence on the basis of a real program of government, social recovery and environmental emergency. Act in accordance with the Constitution and what all the jurists and especially the most eminent of them say. Mr Michel, the time is not up to pride. It's time for lucidity. You created this situation. Meet the expectations of the population and respond clearly and unambiguously to the concrete and specific priorities we set for you. Otherwise you will have no confidence or support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, I must say that I was quite surprised when I saw today's agenda. Last week, Parliament voted a resolution calling for a vote of confidence today. To my astonishment, the agenda does not at all foresee this request for a vote of confidence. You would have even told the MR's office – I suppose many of them were present today – that this request for a vote of confidence would be treated as a "dine of assholes". Is that it? It's still crazy! One Prime Minister, who has only 52 Members in this House, believes that asking for trust is a "dine of assholes". Basically, all the people who believe a little in the existence of democracy are jerks. That's really what you explained, and I guess at the MR's office everyone said, "Charles, you're right. He's really an asshole's dinner. We're not going to play in this game." That's amazing! We still expected very logically that you would come here to ask for trust. You only have 52 deputies. That seemed obvious to us. Let me clarify it in Dutch. This is a game where everyone around the table is being silly. There's one who's silly, that's Prime Minister Michel, and everyone around here is actually laughing in his face. It's an asshole's dinner. In this way I explain to our Dutch-speaking comrades what is the concept of cons of dinner. So you'll have learned something here today. It's important to translate. Mr Prime Minister, you seem to think that asking for a vote of confidence in Parliament would be a better dinner. I find that a bit strange, because personally I see such a vote more as an expression of democracy. So the signal is really negative after all. I see the theater game is continuing. The theater room continues. The show must go on . Now there is a new piece, namely: making the population believe that the N-VA and the MR are really not in agreement anymore. This is the new play. We're trying to make it look like N-VA and MR really don't agree with each other. So the game goes on. N-VAs, you must now do something difficult: you must try to make the Flemish people believe that you do not agree with the budget that you have approved. That is really difficult, because you have agreed to the 2019 budget in committee. Your own minister, Mr Van Overtveldt, made it up with his cabinet, but you must now believe that you are not in favour of the budget you have drawn up and approved. The theater continues. The show must go on . You don't give a shit about the world, there's no problem! People are being mocked when, ladies and gentlemen, this government is dead! There is no one who believes in the existence of this government! We're really giving a shit about people. There are 150 people here in the room, we know this government is dead. The only debate is when we're going to hand over the resignation to the King and here we're still having debates on the 2019 budget. It's an incredible show! How to put intellectual energy in there. I wondered how to do it, Mr. President, to make a ten-minute speech. It's really lamentable. The vote of distrust was expressed on Friday in the streets of Liège, Antwerp, Ghent and Brussels. Hundreds of companies were closed due to a strike. Hundreds of pickets were occupied not only by trade unionists but also by yellow vests. The yellow jackets, they were all there and wondered what the political world is doing. Come on! Friday's signal was: how can I still live with 1 430 euros per month? You can't do that, can you? I can't live like this. The signal was also: I'm tired, I'm busted, I'm 56 years old, I work in construction and I have to work for up to 60 years. After all, according to Mr Bacquelaine, no one can stop working before 60 years. Do you not hear that signal, ladies and gentlemen? Where are you? You are currently discussing "wie de zwartepiet mag krijgen", to whom the fault lies that this government – as everyone knows – will stop in the hours or days to come. It's not serious. And you are astonished by the disgust of people with regard to the political fact! I will make it clear that for four and a half years you have been quite in agreement with each other. Stop giving us a showtime. All right? You agreed to vote for the pension at 67. Colleagues of the N-VA, you say that what is happening now is undemocratic. Well, what was democratically raising the retirement age to 67 years, when that was not in your own programme? No one in Belgium has agreed to a retirement age of 67 years, but you had no problem approving it anyway. How does the people's voice resound about working up to 67 years? The people are against it. You didn't even dare to include that in your program! I could still have understood if in your program it was stipulated: "We, the N-VA, we want the pension at 67." I could have understood it, but you didn't even mention it! You're ashamed of that, you're using tricks. Who voted for the index jump? Nobody. That wasn't in your program either. It even said "never an index jump" in your program. You even said, "We're never gonna make an index jump." There was no problem. At that time, no one in the former majority said that there was a democracy problem because this index leap was not in any program and was still being implemented. You don't have any problems with that. The problem is the current situation, the loss of power. That's what interests you! Mr Van Overtveldt is no longer working on the government budget for 2019 but on his own budget. His own budget, 94 000 euros in the pocket, he will not forget. Well, that's a good thing to say. That's what he's doing. This ex-N-VA minister says that he has worked hard here after all. What, then, is this an argument? "I've worked hard." A minister's argument! "I still have the right to have this 100,000 euro bonus! I've worked hard." You can imagine the hundreds of thousands of workers who don't have those bonuses. Didn't they work hard? Colleagues, this is really not serious. You're playing a little political game that doesn't grow up. I'm going to be to the point. It's hard to hear the truth, but I'm saying out loud what everybody thinks out there. This government is dead. You have to tell him to Charles Michel. Tell him, Mr. Peeters! Frankly, we have to stop. Someone has to tell him. He is the only one here in Belgium who did not understand that this government was dead. You have to tell him now. You have to tell him honestly: "Charles, it's over! The adventure is over!" I think it's time to say it. To tell you honestly, I do not expect much from the minister's answer earlier because I think she will disappoint us. I've been talking about 67 years. He's not going to come back to this. The index jump. He's not coming back. Investments in the railway. He's not going back to it either. Prime Minister, we were wondering where you were. You're not going to go back on all those antisocial decisions you've made, because it's in your DNA to make the workers pay and not make the rich pay. It's in your DNA! That is why your answer will be disappointing earlier. That is why your government cannot continue. The PTB wants to be very clear about this. A motion of distrust will be introduced. We will support it, because we believe that you no longer have any legitimacy to continue to lead. You're going to tell me it's going to be routine business. I'm telling you clearly. We prefer day-to-day business to right-wing business. That's for sure! Yes, we do not want to give you a mandate to decide that unemployment benefits will be degressive faster at €1,011 per month. We won't give you that mandate. Yes, day-to-day business will not allow you to apply this right-wing policy. We do not want to give you credit today to be able to vote, for example, the end of time credits and these budgetary savings. We don't want to. Routine business will block you on these points. Similarly, we would be interested to know whether the first budgetary steps for the F-35 are planned. We're gonna block this. Mistrust, mistrust, mistrust! Yes, day-to-day business is better than right-wing business. That is why, Prime Minister, in the minutes and hours that will come, these motions will be tabled. We will support them. This will not prevent, contrary to what you say in the press, still voting on social measures. If we want to vote for the wellness liaison envelope, we will vote for it here in Parliament! Now, I'm telling you, you'll have our vote. If you want to vote for the 21 % to 6 % VAT reduction on electricity, I tell you, we will vote in favour. You will find a majority for this in this Parliament! So, no, day-to-day affairs will not prevent us, if Parliament actually takes up its initiative, from voting on such measures. Stop blackmailing and say, "Without me, it's chaos"! It was with you that this was chaos. It's important, Mr. President. You still have to tell him! Finally, Prime Minister, I think it's time to drop the curtain. We're not gonna see each other again for a few weeks to continue the show. We have other things to do in the political and democratic life of our country. Yes, you deserve a mistrust and I hope it will be voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, my group's position is well known, and I explained it last week. First of all, you should have asked for trust. You have not done so and that follows, secondly, despite the fact that some members of your government seem to be unaware that you are already in business. That means that your dream team from 2014, which had quickly become a bickering cabinet, is now a sort of disintegrated war coalition. People are actually wondering why. Some run away from the government, so your government is in on-going business. People are wondering why. The refugee pact, about which very little has been heard here in the assembly, except when I myself spoke about it, was approved yesterday at the General Assembly of the United Nations. The migration pact will be voted on tomorrow. They then form part of the international legal order, despite the Marrakesh flight of one party. That soft law is here, so you've achieved nothing. You could've reached business, but you should've shot into action two years earlier. The population is looking at this divorce with increasing amazement. The two partners set their house on fire. They are setting the budget on fire. One is in favour of the country's prosperity, and that is much better without a budget, which is apparently the new strength of change now. Where are we going now? My group is not afraid of elections. On the contrary, we have two chances instead of one, so why should we be against it? However, we must be aware that this does not really change anything. Because there's no one who believes there's going to be a federal government before the state elections at the end of May, is there? Surely there is no one who believes that these negotiations are going to start in a serious way before the end of May? And if it's the end of May, how many more days do we have to add? 541, as in 2010? That was, by the way, the longest non-Community formation in Belgian history. Should we add 138 days as in 2014? If there are elections now, there will be no government at miracle tomorrow, that is quite clear. Elections or no elections, Michel II stays in business. The political power game that everyone sees here today may well lead to a collective impoverishment. My group would like to give a very specific warning about this. There are three important files that the divided war coalition cannot deal with. We are heading towards a hard Brexit and Belgium is the third largest exporter to the United Kingdom after Ireland and the Netherlands. Colleagues of the N-VA, 90% of these exports are Flemish. It could be in danger right now. At the beginning of January, a new interprofessional agreement should normally be reached. That will be very difficult without a budget. The third dangerous point is that many people have difficulty making ends meet. Just look at the demonstrations of the yellow hoops, listen to what those people are saying. They're having a hard time making ends meet. There should normally be a wage agreement in January, but if there is no budget and there will be elections, it will not really be resolved. My group would therefore like to warn very strongly of this collective impoverishment which threatens to be caused by the political power play played by the four parties of the divided coalition of war. Mr Prime Minister, you have, of course, begun an impossible task. You come to Parliament and seek responsible representatives of the people. Instead, you will find participation, the parties that are here from their headquarters, not only from Antwerp but from all headquarters, thumb up or thumb down gestures. That's what you'll find here. You will find parties who all reason for their own electoral interests. They are looking at how to score at the elections, now or in May 2019, but they are not concerned with the prosperity of citizens. A poll should not determine what is happening here in the Chamber, but common sense. Mrs Wouters and I, therefore, call on the representatives of the people to be representatives of the people instead of party slaves. Do it! Dare it! Responsible representatives of the people are not representatives of the people who, by order of their party, add chaos to the chaos that already exists. We cannot allow this chaos or evolve into a collective impoverishment. The three points I have just mentioned are important for the prosperity of all. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister, what your plans are for those three points. Depending on your answer, my group will consider its attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u39	Mr President, Prime Minister, your silence with regard to us since last Wednesday is challenging. We had started discussions which I would not say were promising, but which had not been completed. As often for four and a half years, you have been violently reminded of the order since Antwerp and you have, no doubt, during this weekend, tried to save what could be from this bad marriage with the N-VA. In any case, you did not give the signal to this Parliament that you were going to respond positively to the vote which was put on Wednesday last with the point of order which asked you to come and present us with a new commitment as head of government and ask us for confidence. As long as it still exists, even for a few minutes, this government is no longer the Michel I government; it is no longer composed in the same way. We can hope that it is no longer quite the same in terms of projects. You have suggested, but in a somewhat hesitant way, developments on the issue of migration, with the Covenant; on the issue of the climate with commitments that I will return to; on the reception of migrants, although there, Mrs De Block quickly went back under pressure. Prime Minister, you now need to clarify the game. You cannot at the same time, as another not so distant head of state would say, pursue the same projects, those we have criticized for their social, societal, budgetary or environmental impact, and rely on our support. The large gap is not sustainable constitutionally, morally and politically. The demand for trust is not only logical but also inescapable, or you must draw all the consequences. However, you insist on this adventure with the N-VA when, as a reminder, you committed yourself not to do so. You said, "Never with the N-VA!" And in politics, you have reminded him regularly, it's something important. You insisted on the fact that the signals, which are not new, were clear in terms of retrogression on fundamental rights, in terms of the budget, despite the bleeds applied to our fellow citizens, in terms of diplomatic and international relations. We were gradually shifting to the wrong side of history, in terms of the quality of public service, in the fight against poverty, in terms of climate and energy, even if you are trying to correct the line, and in terms of society as well. Prime Minister, sometimes obstinacy turns blind, as when your party thanks to this rostrum or in the media, the N-VA for these four years and again, last Monday, says: "If it was to be done again, why not start again with this party?" Prime Minister, what do you have to tell us? How has your thinking evolved since last Wednesday? What is your choice? You're not going to keep walking us around like this. We're not too serious yet, but you've been walking around Belgium and all the Belgians for three weeks. Prime Minister, there are emergencies. We are the last political generation to be able to prevent the warming of our planet by more than 1.5 or 2 degrees. We must act for the climate, as you did for the Migration Pact. With this morning's vote in the Committee on Public Health, you have an obligation to produce results. We need to raise the level of ambition. In view of these ambitions, means must be found and results must be sought. There's an emergency! We must fight poverty and insecurity, and against the social drop-out that is evident in our country, in terms of income distribution. Where is the commitment you made in 2014 to raise social benefits up to the poverty risk line? Do you really think that accelerating the degression of unemployment benefits will improve the labour market in Belgium? Will you, on the contrary, finally act for a fair tax that will contribute the highest income to the efforts that are necessary to face us, so that these high incomes will finance these social commitments? Prime Minister, there are emergencies. A little humanity, please! It is not acceptable that in 2018, families, men, women, children are sleeping on the street because, politically, a Secretary of State decided that he would not accept them! We are in the capital of Europe and we must be worthy of this status. What are your responses to these emergencies? We reach out to you, not naively, but you know our priorities. We ask you, Prime Minister, to clarify your intentions and either accept a request for confidence in this Parliament, with a few priorities that you would have to put before us, or to draw the conclusions and go to the King. Otherwise, if you don't clarify, there will be no other choice. Together with our colleagues, we will have to vote for mistrust. This will be the day-to-day business until May 26th. And whatever your desperate efforts to make believe something else, it will be your own and entire responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u40	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you no longer have the opportunity to save time. You no longer have the opportunity to escape an essential choice. You have breached the constitutional rules too much to be able to escape today from the necessary response that you must give to Parliament to the notice addressed to you last week. You have violated the constitutional rules because, when a government loses its majority by withdrawing one of its partners, the practice is that the Prime Minister goes to the King's house to present his government's resignation. You did not, considering that you were in continuity and that there was no break between your government with the N-VA and a government without the N-VA. You had the hope, no doubt after unrevealed arrangements, of being able to pursue cahin-caha with the episodic support of the N-VA, especially on the budget. You have thus exposed yourself to the blackmailing of the N-VA even more brilliant, to blackmail even more contemptuous than anything you had suffered until then. You are now pretending that you can continue your journey by having only 52 Members of Parliament in this House to follow your government action. This does not stand up to any serious analysis. This does not stand up to any serious political reality. A minority government in our Belgian parliamentary system either demise or try to find another majority. But today, you don't have it. So you have to take two initiatives if you want to save the institutions because, today, it's no longer a question of whether you're just pursuing an erratic journey that is personal to you. Today, it is a question of whether you will preserve the credibility of the institutions where a party particularly wants to bring this country into the institutional runal to better justify its confederalist projects. So you have two initiatives to announce, Prime Minister, if you want to escape any form of censorship. First, it is a sense of responsibility to say that you are asking for a postponement of the vote on the budget, the time to allow another assessment and to determine if other political choices can be made, because, do not be mistaken, not a party today outside your majority government will accept a budget that you have drawn up with the N-VA that has its accents, priorities and failures. Secondly, and I want to be very clear on this point, and I say this particularly to the only French-speaking party in this Bric-à-brac coalition, I invite you, and this can be done at the initiative of the parliamentary groups, to take the initiative of an agreement to refuse any revision of the Constitution that would lead to the institutional ordeal that the N-VA calls for. On this issue, Prime Minister, I also expect you to make a clear statement. Close the door to the revision of section 195! Say it openly! Close the door to the revision of any article that would make our institutions evolve towards confederalism! Let us conclude an agreement between parties that have a sense of responsibility to consider that an institutional halt is still needed for very long years. In fact, there may be time to evaluate the successive reforms of the State, which have led – it must be said – to many improglios and incoherences. It would be much wiser to express this will, and you will find partners ready to take on this essential choice. These are the two answers you must give to this rostrum today. First of all, it is the budgetary halt; in other words, the refusal to put the budget you have defended to the vote. Indeed, if you ask for this vote, you will be beaten, no matter what happens. Then I want to talk about the institutional stop. It is under these conditions that you will have preserved our institutions and that you will still be able to correct several errors for which you are responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time in history that our country has faced serious political difficulties. It is probably new due to certain factors and peculiarities that characterize it. It is important for everyone to measure the course that has been followed in recent days, to see where we are and to know what is possible and perhaps even desirable in the coming days and months. The debate on the Migration Pact has generated major political tensions in this Parliament and also in the Council of Ministers. Noting the permanent blockage within the latter, I have chosen to ask Parliament to express itself in order to send a message which, in my view, reflects the values that our country wants to bring to the international stage and which are rooted in our history, in accordance with the role and responsibility that this country and its leaders – whatever the political formations to which they belonged – have played in key moments at the international level: the founding of the European Union, the creation of the United Nations, the Declaration of Human Rights. Whenever it comes to addressing the global challenges we faced, our country has brought its values of cooperation to bear for the sake of efficiency. On Saturday 8 December, at the Council of Ministers, we found that the disagreement within this coalition was final. So I took note of a resignation with my colleagues. In accordance with Parliament's resolution, I had to represent our country fully at the United Nations Conference in Morocco. I wanted to do that, of course, with the full capacity to engage our country. That is why we very quickly took the decision to appoint two State Secretarys of State as Minister in order to be able to guarantee the principle of parity in the Council of Ministers. That was my first statement on Saturday night, and I confirmed it on Sunday. I said immediately that I was aware, I am and will remain aware that this situation meant that there was a need for thorough and substantial consultation, a dialogue, a discussion with Parliament. And as early as Tuesday, within a few hours of my return from Morocco, where I represented what Parliament, two-thirds, had asked me and which was supported by the government at the cost of breaking up a coalition, I undertook the various contacts to see how it was possible in sobriety, calm, respect and dignity to envisage the political diagnosis of a situation and to see what consequences could and should be drawn. I have therefore made a number of contacts, including in the last few days, with a number of training courses, I want to give, Mr Maingain, a clear first answer to one of your questions, in particular. In the context of these contacts, I found - at the beginning of a budget discussed during the summer and tabled in October, deliberate and supported in committee - that there were unacceptable new conditions at the risk of launching the country into the confederal forward flight and that also posed the risk of launching the country towards early federal elections. I'll come back. We did not accept these unacceptable conditions issued by a party that was once part of the coalition. They are unacceptable and the line is drawn. That is why we have taken the decision to submit to Parliament the provisional twelfths, a provisional budget in order to guarantee the continuity of the State and, at the beginning of this budget page, the provisional twelfths, to write throughout the coming weeks and months, the decisions necessary to meet the legitimate aspirations and expectations of our citizens in the various fields: economic, social and environmental. Climate change has been mentioned and I will return to it. Here, Mr. Maingain, I think I give two clear answers to two of your messages: no confederal adventure and a budget page to be written at the start of provisional twelfths if you decide, because the vote will belong to your assembly. In the light of the different interpretations and the different political sensitivities, I try, as far as possible, to make an objective and neutral determination of the situation. An objective diagnosis, to be able, as far as possible, as a government, and I hope, as a Parliament, so all of you, to make the right choice and to assume the responsibilities in the next few hours or days. I remain convinced that, faced with this complex political situation, there are three potential choices for us. The first choice, which some prefer, is to organise early elections. The choice of early elections – there may sometimes be a lack of precision in this matter – is that of anticipating only federal elections. The European and regional elections are fixed and cannot change. I think, and I take it with my eyes in front of this House and in front of our fellow citizens, that the flight forward towards federal elections in a few decades – forty days, by hypothesis – would represent a virtually absolute certainty of immobilism throughout 2019. There is also enough political experience in this assembly on all the benches of the left, right and center to measure that the political reality of our country, our electoral system, the stakes of coalitions will make extremely complex, if not impossible, the formation of a new full-function federal government before the elections of May 2019 and probably before the formation of regional governments following these same elections. There is therefore a high probability of being in a situation of immobilism throughout 2019, with all the consequences of impoverishment for our country and for our fellow citizens and all the consequences in terms of image. That's not the wish I'm expressing. I understood that others made this choice, had other steps. I explain with rational arguments why this choice is not wise in the interests of our country and our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also the Constitution. In the event of political difficulties such as today, the Constitution also offers another opportunity to find a solution and to regain stability and clarity, namely the possibility of forming a new majority and a new coalition, which is, of course, Parliament's responsibility and choice. Each of the 150 members of this assembly, which expresses the representation of our country and our population, has the capacity to obtain a majority in order to install, before the elections if they are held in May 2019, a majority on the basis of a programme with, therefore, a responsibility, trust and ability to carry out the work. Again, I note that if this were Parliament's choice, it goes without saying that each and every one of us should submit to that choice. But we also know the political reality and the extreme difficulty of achieving such a result within a reasonable period of time for those who wish to do so, with of course the freedom for everyone to initiate initiatives that would make it possible to move towards this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, there is another possibility, a third choice, a third way. I know, of course, that this choice has no tradition in Belgium, although it is a tradition in thirteen other European countries. I also know that this third choice in our country necessarily means that the time limit for such a decision-making process must be limited. That is de facto the case, with the next elections ahead. And also through the dissolution of the chambers which is scheduled for 16 or 17 April. Nothing must be changed in the Constitution. This would be a time-limited method of decision-making for a few months and, I think, would bring with it a number of advantages in comparison with the other two scenarios I have described, which have many disadvantages for our citizens and for our country. This third choice is the idea of cooperation between the government, which does not have the majority in this House, and Parliament. And more specifically, the positive forces, the forces of goodwill that decide to roll back their sleeves in order to try to meet in the coming months some challenges in a spirit of openness, in a spirit of bridge builder because this is, more than ever, the issue in the interest of our country. I would like to look at three questions with you and see how it is possible to answer those three fundamental questions. I would like to look at these three fundamental questions not only with you, Members of Parliament, but certainly with our fellow citizens, with our eleven million fellow citizens, who want strong answers from their political representatives to their daily expectations. The first point I would like to raise is the question "What for?" What should we devote our energy and commitment to if such a choice were to be made? I would like to answer this question by bearing in mind a meeting I had a few days ago, for three and thirty hours, with seven representatives of the yellow vests, Belgians who, for some, work and who, for others, seek a job. All of them are very legitimate – some have said on almost every bench – concerned about the very fundamental question of hope for themselves and for those they love, for their children, for their loved ones. They are concerned about the anxieties associated with the payment of bills at the end of the month. Their concerns are related to the planet in which we live and to the prospects on this subject. A first important question: pour quoi faire? What could be the roadmap and what are the strong and new opening accents that one can try to integrate into such reasoning? Firstly, the purchasing power and socio-economic commitments. I would like to look with you at some concrete measures. First point: the question is: do we want to ensure that the tax shift, in its strengthening of purchasing power for 2019, can indeed be realized, realized and confirmed? Very concretely, for low- and medium-wages, this amounts to an additional €36 per month, in addition to the previous increases that had been decided. Mr Vuye and some other speakers were right to make comments on another important issue relating to purchasing power. Again in relation to the issue of purchasing power, there is the question of wage bargaining, which is to take place within the framework of the interprofessional agreement from January onwards. I want to be very precise. We had an important, substantial meeting on Saturday morning, with important substantive elements, with the Group of Ten and the representatives of employers and employees. At this important meeting we noted that the Group of Ten, the social partners, had a very strong message to the government and perhaps also to Parliament. They want to start a negotiation with the aim of an interprofessional agreement for greater security, social stability, strengthening the purchasing power of those who work and all this taking into account the challenge of the competitiveness of companies. That's a strong signal! There is also enough experience in this assembly to know that it is very important to send out a very strong signal from Parliament and the government on the welfare envelope if we are to achieve results. The welfare envelope is crucial for the support of those receiving benefits. It is also a strong signal in the fight against poverty, particularly for the lowest benefits. Indeed, we plead and propose to take the hand that has been strained by a few to consider that this social envelope must be dedicated to 100% – this represents an amount of 354 million euros for 2019, 716 million euros for 2020. For us, these are macroeconomic figures in a budget – for pensioners, for people receiving allowances. This will improve purchasing power as of 2019, and it will help to change the course of things for many people in our country. That's what this is about. In recent months we have also heard the call for us to be aware that purchasing power is a question of income and of invoices that people have to pay. That is why we believe that it is necessary to start a discussion on this issue and to take a decision, if a majority in Parliament would like to do so. I am thinking in particular of invoices which, indeed, have increased for a number of reasons. I have heard on many benches - although sometimes there are nuances on the modalities of possible measures - that the question of energy prices and energy bills should be taken into account in order to send a message to our citizens. I am indeed in favour of dealing with this issue. During the contacts I had, some have actually argued in favour of reductions in VAT on electricity. Others argued for a more direct impact on invoices through federal contributions. Still others argued that "fund"-type mechanisms could be implemented to further target the impact of decisions taken on people who receive allowances or who receive low and low wages. Here's another subject I want to open with you! Do we have the will to make an effort to be bridge builders, to achieve a goal that is widely shared (I have seen) and to find the formula that constitutes a consensus for a majority in order to go ahead, too, and to show this signal of understanding to our fellow citizens, with a very direct impact? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that with the reimbursement of some medicines or benefits for many citizens in our country, healthcare is a crucial challenge and can have a major impact on their daily lives. We have in this country a health system, which is the result of decades of work, starting from the social partners and starting from the politicians of the various benches in this House. Do we also want to open up this subject and look at what are, by taking into consideration, by listening to a number of messages sent, the concrete, quick, perceptible answers by our fellow citizens that can be sent on this subject? There is another important challenge. I have said that we want to give every opportunity to social dialogue on the wage margin, while taking into account the competitiveness of companies. Another important issue is the labour market. Over the last few months, we have been faced with a shortage of labour. The fundamental question here is how we can provide a correct answer to this without slowing down our growth, our economy and our prosperity. There may be different opinions here about the best solution. Our proposal is to ensure that dialogue with the social partners and consultations with Parliament are conducted to the maximum. We have indeed adopted a number of guidelines on this subject, and I believe that the situation should allow the social partners and Parliament to see how decisions can be taken by respecting social consultation and by respecting, of course, the wish of a majority in Parliament. I make the same point on two other subjects: the question of career ends and the question of landingsbanen, the time credits at the end of a career for which, again, social consultation must be possible. I'm making the same observation for another subject. I am aware that pension reform is important and necessary. As far as the heavy professions are concerned, we have given a mandate to mediators to see how social dialogue can continue. This means that social dialogue and Parliament must be given a key role. I therefore have the impression, with regard to this first point concerning purchasing power and socio-economic development, that I am addressing not a few generalities but a number of proposals, with open arms to our fellow citizens and to those who represent them and who are of good will in this House. Another important point, after socio-economic commitment and purchasing power, is security. Security goes hand in hand with democracy. Security goes hand in hand with the fundamental freedoms of our fellow citizens. In recent years, terror has endangered fundamental values throughout Europe and also in Belgium, as a result of terrorist attacks. Only a few days ago, not that far from here, namely in Strasbourg, there was such a terrorist attack. That is why we believe that we must continue the work to support our security forces. We want to see how we can continue what was done at the beginning of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks which made recommendations, so that this tragedy, this misfortune, is not without consequences and that we emerge stronger, stronger, more free, more determined to defend our fundamental values: those of democracy and the rule of law. Here again, I would like to be a little more specific. For a few weeks now, negotiations have been taking place with the security services, in particular with the police officers, on their status and on the recognition by the public of the work they do on the ground, while monitoring our security every day. This issue of status and, more specifically, of social protection, when our police officers put their physical integrity at risk for our safety, must call for answers, not a postponement of decisions for more than a year. We have a responsibility - I believe deeply - to respond to these police representatives who are waiting for us to assume our responsibilities. When they tell us that they can no longer bear this impression of impunity when acts of violence are committed against them, are we going to stand still or are we going to look at how we can provide new answers? I also wish, far from the caricatures and slogans, for which I absolutely do not choose, to object to the necessary number of recruitments of police officers in all clarity. We have seen a lot of discussion on this subject. We have had controversy and controversy in the debates in Parliament in recent weeks - some saying that there was not enough, others saying that there should be more. Let us be objective in this regard. Let's look at the exact situation. Let us also see how recruitment procedures, which are identified as a barrier to meeting concerns when financial resources are released, can be activated more efficiently and optimally. Another important issue is a sensitive issue in society, particularly migration. I have already noted a number of times that this point leads to difficult and intense political and democratic debates. We want to allow humane reception for those who are recognised as refugees, but we also want to have an efficient policy. Hence our commitment to the migration pact. It is also the direction we want to take, and also the direction given to our ambassador, in line with Parliament's resolution calling on us to ensure that we take into account the position of the other European countries that support the Pact on Migration. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on a third important point we discussed a great deal earlier; I will try not to repeat everything, but I confirm what I said. As far as our climate policy is concerned, there has been a strong signal from many fellow citizens. I heard Mr Nollet right. I heard the call of 65 000 people. I also understand, Mr Nollet, that this call is a lasting call. This means that we do not just have to make strong and enthusiastic statements during a debate in Parliament. We also need action, but if we need action, Mr Nollet, then we also need people who are willing to take responsibility in Parliament, in the government and in the Conciliation Committee. That is a strong conviction, which I would like to share with you all. In fact, as I said earlier and I confirm, I wish on this subject, at the departure of the government and Parliament, reinforced by this resolution, which was widely validated in committee earlier, that there is more than an encouragement, an obligation to mobilize and achieve results in order to be able to be proud of what our country wants to do internationally, to be proud of our lucidity and our ability to hear the citizen signals sent and, again, recently, those of a very large number of experts via the IPCC report. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a fourth point, a fourth important challenge. And that is not a detail for me, but a fundamental commitment, a fundamental choice, which we will all have to make today and tomorrow. We face particularly complex and complex challenges at international and European level. Belgium, our country, is not an island. Whoever thinks that is wrong. Whoever thinks that is a dreamer. The reality is that the situation in our country, for our fellow citizens, our families and our companies, will depend to a large extent on what will happen in a positive and non-positive sense at European and international level. That is the reality. Those who want to deny that do not tell the truth to our fellow citizens. We are facing three delicate challenges today with three potentially serious effects for our country. The first issue is the question of Brexit. It is the question of this decision that has been made. Democracy was expressed through a referendum by the British people. We must respect this choice, which has consequences in Britain and potentially also in our country for tens of thousands of workers. Studies show that Belgium is one of the most potentially affected countries. Some studies show that 70,000 jobs in our country are potentially at risk. While 220,000 more jobs have been created mainly by businesses over the last four years, Brexit can destroy up to 70,000 more jobs. What's the situation? There is no right to be blind or deaf. What is the political situation at European level and in the United Kingdom? The political situation is very simple: there is a high risk of a no deal in the next few days or weeks or of a serious political crisis in the United Kingdom. This will affect our country, our economy, our businesses and thus the poverty in our country, when people lose their jobs and face a loss of purchasing power. That is the reality. Those are the consequences. Is it possible and realistic, faced with such a challenge, to make the choice not to be operational, not to negotiate actively, with the support of Parliament, to defend the interests of our citizens, families and businesses? Again, who will pay the heaviest bill if we are not able to defend our interests? It is, of course, the weakest and weakest citizens who will first pay for the addition of this situation. A second major challenge is the European budget. A few days ago, an important European Council took place on this subject. The European budget also has a direct impact on our country, not in 2020 or 2021, but tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. The European budget can have an impact on our national budget, on our public finances, particularly in view of the demand for our financial contribution to the European budget. This represents several hundred million structural euros in our annual budget. Those who are familiar with the budget for having debated a lot in Parliament know that a few hundred million euros potentially represent significant effects. The money that is mobilised for this purpose is not mobilized for other things. This raises the question of solidarity at European level – it is not a politically neutral debate. In addition, this raises the question of how this financial capacity will be used in Europe. I think, for example, of the implications for farmers. Many people across the country are directly affected by this situation. I think, for example, of the Cohesion Funds for regions in transition in our country, which must be able to count on this support capacity in order to stimulate investment, innovation and competitiveness. Apart from purchasing power, alongside economic and social development, alongside security, alongside climate, mobility and energy, there is also a fourth point that relates to the image of our country with – this is not a detail – the question of representation on the United Nations Security Council. We were elected by a very large majority, and we are not in the minority. On the contrary, a very large majority expressed their confidence in our country. Not just a confidence in a government, but a confidence in our country because of our values, because of our international experience, because of our international credibility. These are the fruits of decades of political, diplomatic, international engagements at all levels: the European level and the level of the United Nations. I have the impression, the conviction, the certainty, that I am in a situation with the support of Parliament, that I can bring our country's values and choices to the international level, because we are part of this small circle of those who have this responsibility to work for peace, for security and development, that is not a detail. It has the merit that everyone measures well the choice that must be made in a few hours or days. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken a little time, and perhaps I have been a little longer than usual, to try to present to you what could be a non-exhaustive, incomplete road map, assuming that a work is carried out in the rolled sleeves to see how we can clarify, improve, strengthen, reinforce a number of the points that I have wanted to open, hands out and open arms to hear the call from the national representation. I told you what to do. To what end? I would now like to tell you how. How can we work so that we can take this path for the benefit of our citizens? I said in my introduction and I repeat that this situation has no tradition in Belgium. I am aware that this means that the agreements and the framework between us must be very clear and stable. We must avoid misunderstandings about what these new forms of cooperation, which I believe are necessary, mean in practical terms. I repeat what I said a few minutes ago: it would be for a limited period, a few months, until mid-April 2019. Until we enter the dissolution of the chambers, which changes the situation with the departure of the election campaign. The principles of such cooperation could be as follows. That is a proposal I want to make. It is not to be taken or left behind, but it is a means of nurturing dialogue and discussion between us. Legislative work is mainly carried out through legislative proposals, thus parliamentary initiatives. That's the first point. As far as bills are concerned, let us distinguish between those already before Parliament. Some already are. For these, it seems to me that they must be able to be withdrawn, sometimes amended according to the choice of Parliament; some of them could be voted on and supported, if Parliament chose to do so. Future bills, if any, could be submitted systematically, for example, to the Conference of Presidents in order to ensure, through consensus, that this unusual and unprecedented situation is taken into account and thus to guarantee to Parliament, unambiguously, the primacy in the choice of work to be undertaken. Another possibility is that consideration can be expressed in deliberate votes in the plenary of the House. I want to show, for those of good will, that there are ways in which cooperation can be achieved. The third important point, in line with my strong European and international conviction, is the strong signal with regard to the European and international position of Belgium. There can be no doubt about that. It was not our intention, but the result of the circumstances We have, however, demonstrated with the resolutions on the migration pact and the climate that cooperation with a mandate from Parliament is possible and might even send a stronger signal at European and international level. It is my proposal that whenever our country has to take a position at European and international level, we should work with a mandate from Parliament, from the committee responsible, for example the Foreign Affairs Committee or the Advisory Committee on European Affairs and, if necessary, from the plenary. One more point. I have spoken to you about international positions, legislation and, of course, royal orders. Indeed, in a number of situations, the law gives the government the ability to make deliberate royal decrees in the Council of Ministers. A government that does not have a majority in Parliament must be careful, as I said at the outset. Therefore, he cannot take these royal orders without an examination of the House. Here too, there are possibilities, in particular a possibility in terms of procedure. Thus, to be precise, a first reading could take place in the Council of Ministers, followed by an opinion of the Council of State, after which this first reading and this opinion are sent to Parliament for validation. The entry into force is therefore not possible without Parliament's consent on the royal decrees throughout this period, limited in time until April 2018. What I have just said shows that we have heard perfectly well this demand for cooperation which must respect the primacy of Parliament in a situation such as this. There can be no doubt about that. I am aware that the political situation is not classical. I am aware that my speech is neither classical nor classical in the history of our country's statements. I have tried to deliver a message with a strong personal conviction, but also on behalf of my three coalition partners. I have also tried to prove that we are facing an exceptional situation today. In my opinion, an exceptional situation also requires an exceptional approach, an exceptional respect for each other and exceptional courage to take responsibility. We all have responsibilities. I appreciate the government's responsibility in this particular situation. Everyone spoke on the subject. But I also appreciate Parliament's responsibility, which has the capacity to activate instruments that make the narrow but practical path that I have tried to draw with you possible or impossible. I do realize that this government does not have the confidence of the House, does not have a parliamentary majority. We know that, each and every one of us. Let's not pretend we don't know. We know that there is no confidence in the House today. The question is: do we want to work, with our hands stretched, to build that trust? A roadmap is proposed. A method is possible. There is a political will to show respect, not only between us, but also towards our fellow citizens, for the men and women of our country who expect responsibility more than anything. I believe that is the question raised today. I'm a good measure of the particular moment. I'm a good measure of responsibility. I make a very concrete appeal, not a superficial call, not a call for form. I would like to make a very specific appeal to sit around the table as soon as possible, immediately if one so wishes. Let us sit around the table and deal with these few points which are not exhaustive, which are not to be taken or left. But these few points on the substance, on the draft, on the method can allow us, if we wish, each and every one of us to form, with those who want to do so, a coalition of goodwill, with an active, committed Parliament and a government that must shoulder its responsibilities. (Applause from the MR, CD&V and Open Vld)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u42	Mr Laaouej asked for the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u43	Mr. Chairman, we have just heard this long statement from the Prime Minister, who was not punctuated by the tabling of a motion of confidence. It's his choice. In these circumstances, you will understand that we are asking for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u44	Colleagues, I think we should respect the traditions of the house and respond to Mr Laaouej's request for suspension. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u45	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume the sitting. The Prime Minister is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u47	The Constitution provides that when the government asks for the floor, it is the Prime Minister who speaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity, and I thank you, to speak in this rostrum and to tell you what my conviction was, to tell you also what my appeal was. I have expressed this call with deep sincerity and conviction in the interests of our citizens, in the interests of our institutions, in the interests of our country. Mr President, I have had the opportunity to make my proposal and to launch my appeal in this Chamber. I believe it was a fair and convincing appeal and a fair and convincing proposal, in the interests of our country, in the interests of our citizens. I must note that this appeal did not convince. I understood during this suspension of sitting that this appeal was not heard, at this stage in any case. I must therefore respect it and take note of this situation. I therefore take the decision to submit my resignation and my intention is to go to the King immediately. (Applause from the MR, CD&V and Open Vld benches)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u49	(The Prime Minister greets all present members of the government and leaves the hemisphere.)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, if I have heard the Prime Minister correctly, now is the decision to suspend the sitting and immediately convene the Conference of Presidents. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u51	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-18-54-plenair-ip263x.u52	Colleagues, we have heard the Prime Minister's communication. We are waiting for the King's reaction. Pending the decision of the Conference of Presidents which has just taken place, I can inform you that tomorrow's sitting will be cancelled and that the next day's sitting, Thursday 20 December, will be held at 2.15 p.m., with an agenda which will be adopted by the Conference of Presidents tomorrow morning, perhaps by noon. A well-established part of that agenda is the Finance Act with provisional twelfths, which needs to be adopted. In view of this, and assuming that the King has signed, I can already tell you that the Finance Committee will meet tomorrow afternoon at 2.15 p.m. So much for what we had to say. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 December 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, December 20, 2018 at 2:15 p.m.
