ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u1	Minister, rape, sexual harassment, intimidation, some NGOs have been in turmoil since the first revelations concerning Oxfam, several of whose employees are accused of having resorted to local prostitutes during a mission to Haiti after the earthquake in 2010. In mid-February, the NGO Médecins Sans Frontières also decided to publish the results of its internal investigations into cases of harassment and sexual violence. In a press release, MSF revealed that of 146 complaints or alerts received in 2017 by the management of the organization, which has some 40,000 employees worldwide, 40 cases were identified as cases of abuse or harassment of all kinds following an internal investigation. Of those 40 cases, twenty were cases of harassment or sexual abuse, including rape. In three years, the ICRC has identified 21 staff members who have been dismissed for recourse to a tariffed sex or who have resigned after an internal investigation has been initiated. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. What was your department's reaction to the disclosure of this information? Is there currently a more comprehensive and long-term reflection that is being conducted in this direction by Enabel or the staff of the NGOs approved by your SPF? Is the sector involved in this reflection?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u2	Since this is a question with Mrs Bellens's, I will answer in Dutch and French. Let me begin by repeating what I said in plenary on 19 February. The misconduct of Oxfam UK employees is reprehensible. It is about sexual abuse of the most vulnerable girls and women who are looking for food and protection in a humanitarian catastrophe. The facts were committed by a fellow countryman who was employed by Oxfam UK in Haiti. Oxfam UK is not a partner organisation of Belgian Development Cooperation. Oxfam Solidarity, Oxfam World Stores and Oxfam Magasins du Monde are. In the period 2008-2010 Oxfam Solidarity received funds for an intervention in Haiti, then no longer. For Chad Oxfam Solidarity did not receive funds from the federal development budget. I do not know if the fellow countryman Roland Van Hauwermeiren has ever worked for a Belgian NGO. My services do not have that information. The Royal Decree of 11 April 2016 on non-governmental cooperation provides in Article 42 that the accountability and control of the grant must comply with the principles of integrity, transparency and learning processes. The principle of integrity implies that the subsidised organisation takes the necessary measures against fraud and corruption and, should they occur, puts an end to it. The principle of transparency implies that the subsidised organisation reports any problems to the administration. The principle of the learning process implies that any problems should be discussed and an improvement plan implemented. My administration is engaged in a continuous dialogue with all the actors of non-governmental cooperation who receive subsidies. In addition, accountability is done through written reports, which are checked. Every five years, non-governmental cooperation actors shall be subject to an external review of their management capacity in the context of their recognition. In the 2015-2016 review, staff policy was also checked. Among other things, it was examined whether a person of trust in integrity was identified within the organisations. At that time, I deleted some 20 NGOs because of a lack of management capacity. A year and a half ago, I strengthened the integrity obligation towards NGOs. An ethical code, transparency about possible errors, an internal sanction mechanism and the lodging of a complaint in criminal offences is the minimum I expect from any organisation that works with Belgian public money. My immediate reaction was to ask my administration, with regard to the organisations in question, to take stock of the programmes financed from the budgets of Belgian Development Cooperation. At the same time, I met with Oxfam officials to take stock of the follow-up. This meeting resulted in a joint decision to conduct an audit of the three Oxfam structures funded by Belgian Cooperation. The first recommendations of this audit will be available at the end of April. The administration has created a task force "Integrity and Risk Management of Corruption". The work started in January 2018, in tempore non suspecto and brings together representatives of all relevant actors, both civil society organisations and institutional actors - DGD, Enabel, BIO and my firm. The objective is to develop an integrity action plan with, at the key, the development of a charter and the provision of good practice models. The action plan has two components: one focused on financial fraud and the other focused on unacceptable behaviour. Such a mechanism must lead to the identification and immediate action as soon as fraud or deviant behaviour is detected. DGD is also participating in a new donor working group, initiated by the UK agency Defit, which focuses on sexual exploitation and abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u3	I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u4	Minister, the seizure by Israel last summer of solar panels in a school in Abu Nwar and the destruction of another school in Jubbet al-Dhib, two localities in Palestine, has still not been compensated, despite repeated requests from Belgium for damage caused to these two projects co-financed by the West Bank Protection Consortium, in which our country is integrated. The Consortium has therefore undertaken a joint approach with the Hebrew State. Your colleague, Foreign Minister Didier Reynders, assures us that instructions have been sent to our ambassador in Tel Aviv, demanding that the Israeli authorities "replace unconditionally" the confiscated solar panels and pay financial compensation for the funds invested by the Consortium. Minister, what is the status of this procedure? At the beginning of February you told me, in your answer to an oral question, that you were going to inquire about the request for compensation following the further destruction of the Abu Nwar school, near Jerusalem, on 4 February. Where are we on this more specific point?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u5	Mrs Grovonius, I refer to an answer given in the Committee on External Relations of 7 March 2018 in which the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, answered a question from Mr Benoit Hellings on this subject. The situation has not changed since then. Belgium's military cooperation programme in area C of the Palestinian territories takes place, in large part, in an informal partnership with several European countries called the West Bank Protection Consortium. The other members are Denmark, Spain, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Sweden and the Delegation of the European Union. The primary objective of this partnership is to ensure coordination and coherence of projects in Area C so as to best meet the needs. At the end of last year, for the first time and at the initiative of Belgium, the members of the Consortium agreed to jointly address a protest and a request for compensation for the destruction of a project financed by certain members of the group, including Belgium. To date, the Israeli authorities have not responded to this request. In the oral contacts that took place on this subject, they justify this attitude by reading the law giving precedence to the Oslo agreements signed by the Israeli and Palestinian parties over the provisions of international humanitarian law in the Geneva conventions. According to this reading, the Oslo agreements have placed zone C under the exclusive control of the Israeli authorities, so they have the right to establish a regulation requiring the obtaining of a building permit for any construction in the area. In this respect, the members of the Consortium argue that the Oslo agreements do not alter Israel's obligations as an occupying Power, including the obligation to administer the area for the benefit of the local population and the obligation not to subject humanitarian assistance to any conditions, except for compelling military reasons. On 4 February, the Israeli authorities effectively demolished two prefabricated units housing classes planned to accommodate 26 Palestinian schoolchildren in the Abu Nwar community. In this case, and contrary to what some media have reported, there was no Belgian funding for the project. Not all Consortium projects are funded by all members. However, they are generally presented on-site collectively as the Consortium's projects. The project therefore bore the logo of all the members of the Consortium, including the Belgian Cooperation, which explains the confusion. However, we intend to show solidarity with our European partners, as they were with us when the demolitions involved projects co-financed by the Belgian Cooperation. This incident was the subject of a collective condemnation by the European Union through a communiqué from the European Union delegation in Jerusalem. We are now focusing on the introduction of a new collective demand for compensation, within the framework of the West Bank Protection Consortium. That is why our Ambassador in Tel Aviv joined France's request with other member countries of the Consortium. This second joint approach of the Consortium is an important step towards the systematization of the group's protest action and the demand for collective compensation addressed to the Israeli authorities. This is a step forward that can be clearly put to the credit of our diplomatic efforts since last summer. Let me turn to the attached question from Mr. Van der Maelen. The recommendations of the Advisory Council on Policy Coherence for Development exceed my powers, and even the powers of the federal government. These recommendations focus on trade, investment and public procurement. Belgium is a pioneer in the rights of the Palestinian population in zone C. Belgium defends at European level the view that the destruction of humanitarian infrastructure projects in Palestinian territory is illegal and a violation of humanitarian law. Our country has repeatedly condemned the destruction and fought for common European action. Recently, our position has been strengthened. Our country actively participated in two démarches together with the other partners of the Westbank Consortium, where for the first time a collective application for reconstruction or compensation was submitted to the Israeli government. Belgium supports the so-called differentiation policy, which makes a distinction between the State of Israel and the Israeli settlements in occupied Palestinian territory. That differentiation policy is included in UN Security Council Resolution 3234 of 2016. Four concrete EU measures, each supported by our country, concreteise this differentiation policy. Firstly, the territorial clause in all European agreements with Israel. Secondly, there are the guidelines on the taking into account of Israeli entities located in the occupied territories by grant or financial instruments. Thirdly, the awareness of businesses and citizens with regard to participation in economic activities in the settlements is being addressed. Finally, there is the Commission's interpretative communication on the indication of origin of goods from the territories occupied by Israel since 1967. The Belgian Government is not in favour of boycotting products from Israel, not even in the context of that differentiation policy. This is in line with the November 2016 parliamentary resolution. Belgium does, however, support labelling with the origin of the products from Israel's occupied territories. Our country has actively defended this at European level. Former so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Minister of Foreign Affairs' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. These measures were taken unanimously by the European Council. However, there is no similar consensus in the European Council on the issue of Israeli settlement policy. I can only establish that, as can you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u6	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I am well aware of the difficulties, the obstacles and the differences in interpretation that you have indicated, including with regard to the rules of international law, which should not, however, give rise to such a broad spectrum of interpretations. This always leads me to the same conclusion: diplomacy may have reached its limits. Finally, if we are to achieve lasting peace for all in the region, we will probably need to strengthen our positions vis-à-vis the Israeli State and the Israeli Government, including with regard to the policy of differentiation. As far as product labelling is concerned, we know that this is not working today. Products from the colonies are still on the Belgian market. I recently interviewed Minister Peeters. Customs does not have the capacity to secure 100% of the origin of the products. There are real problems in this area. I believe that we will not be able to resolve them if we do not deepen this policy of differentiation. I understand that there are brakes at European level. As I have often said, we have been forerunners on some issues, and we have been able to move forward. We see it with this Consortium. I hope that the latter will be able to be a forerunner with regard to possible economic sanctions against the State of Israel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u7	Questions Nos 23780 and 23949 by Mrs Pehlivan are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u8	Minister, the UN Security Council finally unanimously adopted, on 24 February 2018, a resolution calling "without delay" for a one-month humanitarian ceasefire in Syria, while more than 500 civilians, including about 100 children, were killed in seven days of Syrian regime strikes on the rebel fief of Eastern Ghouta. The aim is "to enable the regular delivery of humanitarian aid, services and medical evacuation of the most serious sick and injured". On 27 February 2018, instead of a total truce for 30 days, Russia chose a daily truce of several hours, thus "ordering" the Syrian regime to establish a five-hour daily truce of bombings to allow humanitarian workers to work. The context has evolved since my question was tabled on February 27, 2018. Since this weekend, France, England and the United States have bombed strategic chemical weapons sites. Minister, in terms of humanitarian aid, what follow-up is being given to this Security Council resolution by the international community? What is the status of Belgium's humanitarian aid budgets in this chaotic context? Moreover, it would appear that a European conference on Syria will be held in the coming days. Could you give me some information about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u9	According to humanitarian organizations, resolution 2401 is not respected. Fighting in eastern Ghouta, Afrin, part of Idlib and Damascus, including the suburbs, continues. The seat has not been lifted. The delivery of humanitarian assistance is extremely dangerous and is severely hampered. Too few humanitarian convoys have reached only one third of those in need. In addition, most of the medical supplies were confiscated by the Syrian authorities. No emergency medical evacuations were performed. The obligations under international humanitarian law are unquestionably violated. Civilians and civilian infrastructure are not protected from random attacks. For 2018, Belgium has already released €25 million for humanitarian aid to the Syrian region. Belgium is funding the programmes of ICRC, UNHCR, WFP, FAO and UNRWA. Interventions include food, education, protection of refugees and internally displaced persons, basic necessities, medical assistance and support to mine victims. Belgium is also contributing humanitarian funds to Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Turkey. In addition to the 25 million allocated for the Syrian region in 2018, Belgium contributes to global humanitarian funds (CERF, SFERA, IRA) for a total of 20.5 million euros and to the general resources of several international humanitarian organisations, such as ICRC, UNHCR, WFP, UNRRA and OCHA, all active in the region, for a total of 30 million euros. The Brussels conference on the future of Syria and the region will be held on 24 and 25 April and will be chaired by High Commissioner Federica Mogherini and the United Nations Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura. I can already tell you that I will attend, but I cannot give you any more details on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. Your presence at the conference is already good news in itself. Like some, I feared that it would not focus sufficiently on humanitarian assistance to further address the issue of reconstruction. But, in all likelihood, in the light of recent events, this will not be the case. I will come back to you later so that you can give me an account of this event.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u11	Joined Questions No 24028 by Mr Crusnière and No 24035 by Mrs Van Hoof are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u12	Deputy Prime Minister, on 9 April this year began a week of negotiations at the United Nations Human Rights Council on the drafting of a Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Peasants. In the event of adoption, the text will then be submitted for formal approval to the UN Member States at the next General Assembly in September 2018. Let us remember that 70% of the food produced on our planet comes from peasant agriculture. However, 80 per cent of the world's hungry are rural farmers. Industrial production, monocultures, the development of agrofuels, speculation on land or biopiracy lead to the grabbing of the land and natural resources of rural workers, fishermen, shepherds, forest dwellers, and thus to the disappearance of their way of life and livelihoods. It is in this context that the idea of an official declaration has emerged in the peasant trade unions and other associations, which has now been discussed in the United Nations cenacles. It speaks of rights to land, seeds, decent income and food sovereignty. The draft text under discussion innovates by highlighting the concept of common goods: forests, grasslands, rivers, fishing areas, on which rural communities depend for their food identity and survival. For the first time, international law would therefore protect the "common" as a collective institution of self-management established by the United Nations. While the States of Africa, Asia and Latin America support the project, Western countries are not very enthusiastic. The United States and Britain rejected this initiative. The countries of the European Union – apart from Portugal last year – abstained during the votes at the previous preparatory meetings. Belgium's role is crucial since our country is still sitting on the Human Rights Council this year. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what position have you taken with your colleague Mr Reynders in view of the UN discussions held in Geneva in April 2018? What is your view on the idea of sacrificing in a universal text the rights of peasants and in particular the concept of "common"? Is the promotion of equality between women and men, supported by this draft text in rural areas, not in line with your SheDecides initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u13	Mr Hellings, as you have said, the issues that fall within the purview of the United Nations Human Rights Council are dealt with by my colleague Reynders. In this sense, the examination of the Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Peasants is not my responsibility. It might be useful to consider the scope of international law in terms of common property. However, the Belgian position on this subject is further examined at European level. Of course, any initiative to advance the discussion on gender equality is positive. The SheDecides project, which addresses the right to sexual and reproductive health, will strengthen the empowerment of rural women. I would also point out that gender equality and the empowerment of women are cross-cutting themes of the strategic note "Agriculture and food security in Belgian cooperation". The fight against gender inequality has been shown to be one of the best ways to promote food security and reduce rural poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u14	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. It is, of course, Mr Reynders who has the political responsibility to negotiate within the United Nations with a view to a possible joint declaration. Nevertheless, you are also responsible for the coherence of development policies. You must ensure that the government defends the same project. As you have indicated, the strategic note "Agriculture and food security in Belgian Cooperation" supports the promotion of family farming. Anyway, that's what you're announcing. Now we have to see how to implement it. We know that this is a difficult task, particularly because the interests of multinational companies active in the agri-food sector are important. Beyond humanitarian and environmental objectives, and for reasons of efficiency, Belgium must be the voice of this peasant agriculture that feeds the planet. We have a unique opportunity to enlist the massive support of the countries of the South, as well as of the North, for sacralizing this concept of "common". The commons are rivers, fields, and forests in which rural populations have lived for hundreds of generations. If we could consecrate this concept, we could have an international legal instrument which would, of course, give way to agrobusiness and Big Business in general, but which would remind us of the primordial character of the "common". Today, priority must be given to these rural lifestyles that favour natural spaces, not to the benefit of a few multinationals. This is not only a matter of coherence, but also a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u15	I welcome the large number of people who are at the top. We may be more numerous – I assure you – but many committees are meeting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u16	Mr Minister, the Prime Minister and yourself, during a three-day official visit to Senegal, signed a new comprehensive cooperation agreement with the Senegalese authorities at the end of February. This new roadmap sets out the priorities for bilateral cooperation for the next five years (2018-2022). It aims to promote local and sustainable entrepreneurship, sexual and reproductive rights, and training. This agreement must have an estimated budget of EUR 40 million, some 13 million less than the amount granted for the previous programme, which covered the years 2010-2015. That is an important amount, Mr Minister, and I would therefore like to ask you about it. How do you explain such a budget decline in a country where poverty remains a major challenge? Access to health and food sovereignty also remain two topics that are highly dependent on development cooperation in that country. So what about these two major themes at the level of our cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u17	Madam, I would first like to correct a point on the context of your question. The convention signed during my mission is the new general convention that has yet to be ratified and will replace the 2015 convention. This convention is one of the consequences of Enabel's reform. It provides a framework for government cooperation in the coming years and sets out the new cycle on the preparation of a cooperation programme. As for the new cooperation programme 2018-2022, it is still being developed. Discussions were held with the Senegalese authorities on the common priorities: the development of sustainable entrepreneurship, decent employment, sexual and reproductive health and skills building. Access to health will remain a priority of the future programme, but from another perspective: sexual and reproductive health. In addition, the programme will address the issue of food sovereignty from the perspective of economic development, which is complemented by the action of other actors in Senegal, such as non-governmental actors and BIO. The budget allocation will indeed be smaller for this new programme. As I have already stated on several occasions, I would like to emphasize the results and the impact to be achieved, on quality rather than quantity, on the leverage that cooperation can bring, for example with the private sector. This is another way of doing business in Senegal today, compared to the privileged way before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u18	Minister, we are not going to be angry about the last question; however, I think that you are looking for me a little... In short, food sovereignty will be considered under the new axis of economic development. In this regard, we have already had many discussions, as well as the potential leverage of the private sector that remains to be demonstrated in the countries discussed today. I'm still very sceptical about the approach you're taking. In my view, food sovereignty must first and foremost be considered in the context of what Mr Hellings has developed in his previous question, namely, local, peasant agriculture, the one that really feeds the planet and the one that, most of the time, is the most beneficial to women. I have noted that this programme is still under negotiation. We'll probably have a chance to talk about it again. On the other hand, I did not hear you on the budgetary aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u19	As far as the budgetary aspects are concerned, I said that the envelope would be less important for this programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u20	Yes, indeed, but your answer remains evasive. There will be a reduction in the budget, which is not right for me either, since the needs in this country are still enormous. Unfortunately, we will not leave on a positive note. Cooperation should not be treated as a variable of budgetary adjustment, and I regret to note that this is too often the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-17-54-commissie-ic864x.u21	Question No 24813 by Mr. Van der Maelen has been further developed. Question No 24921 by Mr Crusnière is transformed into a written question.
