ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are resuming the session with a series of questions in the field of energy. I propose that this last session of the legislature be restarted with good resolutions: short questions in due course, answers also in a reasonable time and a reply that closes the point. That is what is provided for in the resolution of oral questions. What matters to Parliament is to have good answers to the questions that have been asked, quality rather than length matters. We start with questions that are attached, even though not all the authors are present because of the difficulties of traffic this morning. I don't know if anyone's gonna join us again. Excuse me? Yes, Mr. Nollet, the trains were on time and the bikes too, I assume, although some train lines are more complicated than others. Mr Nollet, you can address your first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u2	Mr President, first of all, would it be possible to ask the services to try to remove this noise nuisance? I'm very sensitive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u3	Indeed, there is a problem of strident noise. Is it possible to remedy this? Mr. Nollet, would you like to change your seat? Would you like to occupy a place on the left, for example? I say that at random, rather than staying in the center... [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u4	Mr President, I had a second comment: Mrs Lalieux called me yesterday to ask me to move the attached questions, which is no problem for me, since it would only arrive at about eleven o'clock. I thought she told you about it with a good friendship in your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u5	As long as we can start the special climate committee at 12 noon, I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u6	That's my goal, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u7	In this case, since there is a consensus, of which I thank you, we turn to item 4. Mr Nollet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Commission des réservations nucléaires (CPN) has sent you a text aimed at strengthening the legislative framework for nuclear provisions. Engie indicated that she did not like the content of the text. Since then, this text has been blocked and direct negotiations have begun with Engie, who refuses, in particular, to have to commit more on the guarantee on the future amounts of the costs of nuclear waste management and decommissioning of plants. At the beginning of July, you told me that you had questioned the CPN about Engie's remarks and were still waiting for her return. I assume that since then you have received the reaction of the CPN. What do they say? Can we have a copy of their remarks? I do not hide from you being surprised and worried about the turn of events which lead to the narrowing of the text of the CPN and to the emptying of elements which would disturb Engie, whereas in answer to my question No. 26418 you told me that it might be appropriate to further strengthen the text as transmitted by the CPN. Today, the opposite direction is taken. Why such a turnaround? I stress this question because you have read like me the alarm cry of an ex-responsible of Engie, negotiator of the Bianca plan, who in the columns of La Libre Belgique clearly presented how Engie wanted to get rid of the slate of nuclear power. He also put forward two proposals on which I would like to return more precisely than in plenary, asking you to position yourself clearly on each of them: the first proposal envisages requiring ONDRAF to calculate the worst of the scenarios in terms of nuclear waste management; the second to adopt very quickly a law which prevents Engie from lowering Electrabel's own funds below the estimated amount of this worst case scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u9	Thank you, Mr Nollet, for the first brief question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u10	Mr President, you will be pleased because my answer is also succinct. Mr Nollet, in our discussion at the beginning of July, I told you that I asked the Committee on Nuclear Supplies about Engie's remarks on the proposal to strengthen the legislative framework. The CPN obviously advised me not to change the proposed text, which had been ordered by the CPN from a law firm. I then tabled the proposal to amend the Act of 11 April 2003, made by the CPN, without any amendment, on the table of the Council of Ministers of 26 July 2018 where it was approved at first reading. It was requested that before the second reading, any amendments that might strengthen the text should be made. The Council of Ministers has therefore clearly positioned itself for the strengthening of the law and even the proposal for a law made by the CPN between the first and second readings. For the moment, we are still in the post-first reading stage, as the text is still under consideration in the Council of State. Upon receipt of the opinion, it will be discussed in a working group. Secondly, you know the procedure: when the course of second reading and amendments has passed, I will come back to Parliament, whether or not accompanied by a convention as was done in 2003. Through this journey, you can realize the determination of our government and of mine in particular, which you know, to strengthen the prudential control of the legislative framework to verify the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies and thus secure the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u11	Minister, I congratulate you on the conciseness of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u12	Mr. Chair, her answer is so concise that the minister did not answer the last part of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u14	No! The content is very specific and I thank the minister for her answer to the first part of my question. But I also asked that it take a position on the proposal to require ONDRAF to calculate the worst case scenario in terms of nuclear waste management and on the proposal to adopt very quickly a mechanism to prevent Engie from lowering Electrabel's own funds below the estimated amount of this worst case scenario. On these aspects, the minister does not say anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u15	Mr President, you are telling me to answer and not add anything. I'm following your instructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u16	Yes, you have to answer in reasonable time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u17	I answered in full. Moreover, Mr Nollet is well aware of my views on these issues since this is not the first time he has asked me. I have replied to him every time that the solution would be found in the law and that I did not have to position myself personally or even functionally on options presented by a member of this Parliament knowing that my text continues to evolve through the work I have just described the chronology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u18	I regret that the minister does not take into account these elements, not put forward by a member of Parliament – they are relayed here – but come from an Engie negotiator, who was left out of the negotiations, but who drew your attention to the risks in progress. For the rest, Madam Minister, I take note of the fact that you sent the text of the CPN as it was to the Council of State after having had it approved by the government – "as I noted in your reply – and that you reserve the possibility of amending the text between first reading and second reading to strengthen it. This is a bit strange because usually a text is presented to the Council of State when it is clear about its content. It is then amended in the light of any comments made by the Council of State, which are of a legal nature. In this case, you are already announcing a substantive change. Problems will inevitably arise if you amend the text at second reading without taking into account the remarks made by the Council of State. I draw your attention to the potential legal weakness of this set-up. In the event that you change something, you will probably appeal to Parliament. That would be better, because the text would have to be strengthened. I hope that then you will take into consideration the two points on which you cannot position yourself at the moment, although they may be able to consolidate the mechanism proposed by the CPN. Your inclusion in a convention can lead to a number of interpretations, which I will not do for the time being, because I am waiting to read the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u19	I would like to point out to Mr de Lamotte, who has just joined us, that we have not yet dealt with the issues included in the first three points, because we are waiting for Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u20	Madam Minister, at our exchange of 23 May on the purchase by Elia of additional shares in 50Hertz and in view of the risk that this purchase would be passed on to the Belgian consumer's invoice, you informed us of the request for investigation that you had made to the regulator on 26 April. During our exchange on 6 June, you informed us that the CREG had received the requested documents from Elia on 22 May as well as some of the answers to the questions asked. You also stated that new questions had been asked and that additional documents had been requested. In answer to my later question No. 26414, you stated to me that, I quote: "CREG gave Elia until 15 June 2018 to provide an answer to the CREG. As of 2 July 2018, CREG had still not received the requested information from Elia. In so doing, CREG informed me that it intended to initiate the administrative fine procedure against Elias because of the latter's failure to provide the requested information. The lack of information prevents the CREG from exercising this control properly and from answering this question. I will not fail to keep you informed of the status of the proceedings in question and also to keep you informed." Minister, having received no information since then, I come back to you. Did CREG have to impose an administrative fine? What is the amount of the fine? Has Elia now submitted the necessary information? What are the findings of CREG in its monitoring mission? What conclusions do you draw from these findings and what are you going to put in place? Can you now guarantee that this buyback will have no impact on Belgian consumers' bills?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u21	Mr Member, after several exchanges between Elia and CREG, the latter informed me by letter dated 6 September 2018 – the day after your question – that it had received the information of Elia useful for its examination in connection with the acquisition in March 2018 of an additional 20% in Eurogrid International, which is the 100% shareholder of 50Hertz. After analysing the information provided by Elia, CREG is of the opinion that the proposal by Elia, which is to charge for its unregulated activities the financing costs linked to the recently issued EUR 1 billion loan, would constitute a cross-subsidy between regulated and unregulated activities to the detriment of the Belgian consumer. Elia contests this view for her part. Elia's response to the latest findings and criticisms of CREG is expected. In the context of this acquisition, I think it is useful to inform you that during the summer, Elia brought an action for annulment against a provision of the tariff methodology 2020-2023 recently approved by CREG on the valuation of the financing of unregulated activities. Judgment is expected by the end of this year or the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers. For CREG, we're facing a crusader subside. I suppose you'll be paying particular attention to that. If, at the end of the exchanges with Elia, it should turn out that the position of the CREG is that of the cross-subsidy, there will be room for intervention to avoid this having an impact on the consumer's bill. I ask you to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u23	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, during our previous discussions, and in particular on June 6, you were telling us that the Chair of the LWG was very soon to provide you with a report in which the LWG would make proposals on the priorities to be granted. In answer to my question No 26413, you told me at the beginning of July that this report had still not been sent to you. I hope that this report requested in 2014 has since arrived at you. So I'll come back with my questions. Have you received this report? If so, can you give us a copy and give us an oral outline? Can you inform us of your follow-up to the recommendations contained therein? If not, what is the final timetable for the submission of this interim report? What deadline did you set for the LWG to submit this report to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u24	Mr President, Mr President, my administration is telling me that it is making progress on all the various important nuclear issues with the ambition of reaching a conclusion before the end of this term: nuclear supplies; long-term solution for the management of our most dangerous nuclear waste; improvement of the interfaces between ONDRAF and AFCN; improvement of the legal framework for small nuclear operators and the sustainability of research in Belgium through a project like MYRRHA. Three themes were identified as priorities. I already told you. I repeat: 1. establishing a legal framework for provisioning for operators or similar companies not covered by the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants; 2. voluntary or involuntary cessation of nuclear activities; 3. work towards the establishment of a coordinated law on the management of radioactive waste. In view of the current situation, I have given priority to making very significant progress on nuclear supplies and on the MYRRHA file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u25	Minister, I note that you have still not received this requested report in 2014 and that you are not answering my question as to what is the schedule you have set for the LWG. I understand that you have set priorities, that these priorities are part of the framework of the report, but I have not received an answer to my question about the timetable you have set. Could you bring me a supplementary element?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u26	As I said, the end of the legislature. It's a panel of things. We've already had the opportunity to talk about it a lot. I am moving forward on various issues according to the requirements and needs of the moment in order to be able to have the necessary expertise on the issues that I must deal with as a matter of priority. We hope to be able to close this before the end of the legislature, knowing that we are not there yet. This therefore continues, but the administration is mobilized on matters that I consider important at certain times, and it is not plethoric. I told you precisely: this is the nuclear supply file and the MYRRHA file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u27	Not only is the administration not plethora, but also your government has taken a series of fiscal restraints that obviously have an impact on different administrations, including this one. It is not unrelated to the reduced capacity of the administration that we find ourselves today in a situation where this report requested in 2014 will never arrive. When you say "end of parliament," I know what that means. I know what this also means in relation to parliamentary control, and even more so in relation to your ability to draw something from it, for the policies you should be pursuing. This is all the more true given that we know that an appointment is already set in October 2018, and that you are particularly attentive to it, not to say otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u28	On 4 May 2018, you wrote to ONDRAF asking them to send you a final and reworked version of the document entitled "National policy for the long-term management of high-level radioactive waste and long-lived radioactive waste". I would like to know the ONDRAF's response and receive, as in previous stages, a copy of the response and its appendices. I would also like to know if the file has already been forwarded to the AFCN. In addition, what are the next steps and what is the planned timetable for these steps? In our previous discussions, I asked you whether you were going, as appropriate, to carry out an environmental impact assessment of the draft national policy on the management of radioactive waste. I also asked you when and in what form the public consultation on this project would be organised. You told me that you were waiting for the ONDRAF's response and its proposals before you, in your turn, took a concrete position while insisting on the fact that, on principle, you were very supportive of anything that could strengthen a broad societal base. I hope that since then, the ONDRAF has had time to position itself and that it is clearly in your direction, even if, I say again, the decision on this matter belongs to you anyway. Can you also tell me what is happening on this part of the file and the ONDRAF response?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u29	Mr President, as far as the draft national policy on the geological storage of radioactive waste is concerned, I am not going to repeat the whole past here and to recall our many exchanges on this subject. I refer you to the proceedings of this committee. I would remind you that for the reasons I have already mentioned in this committee, Minister Peeters and I believe that the AFCN is indispensable, and we have no choice. On the other hand, there is a need for a broad societal base. These two reasons, among others, have prompted us to ask ONDRAF for a new proposal for a national policy which would first be developed in stages; secondly, it is limited to the principle of geological storage without indicating the host rock at this stage. This is what AFCN advocated in its opinion on the 2010 Waste Plan and reiterated in 2015 on the national programme. The ONDRAF responded to the letter that Minister Peeters and I sent to him. I'm referring you to our exchanges for its content. Their answer includes the document "on its own" and the draft royal decree requested, which we lacked. I am currently working with my colleague from the Economy to organize the request for advice to the AFCN, which is expected to be completed shortly. This is the continuation of the procedure. Finally, for the question on SEA (Strategic Environmental Assessment), the ONDRAF's answer is not very clear. It merely refers to the opinion of the SEA Committee. I would remind you, however, that ONDRAF is the author of the proposal. I am looking at possible options to move forward in accordance with the legal and regulatory framework. This is important for this type of decision, which must be a basis for a multi-step process. I have said this on several occasions: of course I remain in favour of anything that can strengthen a broad societal base, and therefore to carry out such a survey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u30	Minister, two things. First, I note that you received the answer. Would we be able to receive a copy? We had received a copy of the previous exchanges. I see you're acquiescing, but it would be nice to say so, so that it can be acted upon. We had received the previous exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u31	You're a formalist. The answer is 'yes'. It's amazing; it looks like we're getting married every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u32	Thank you, Madam Minister. On the second part of your answer, I agree with you, even if I do not have the last letter. On the basis of what we have so far, the ONDRAF's response is unclear about the SEA. It's your responsibility, and you're analyzing the situation to see what you're going to do with it. I can only refer you to the legal opinion that your administration requested on this matter. This opinion is clear on both elements. One, a new assessment of environmental incidents needs to be organized. Two, public consultation is necessary anyway, since it is not even mentioned in the ONDRAF mail. I do not think there is a need to relaunch long studies, while the ONDRAF's response is unclear. On the other hand, the legal study that you and your firm had previously commissioned, which I had access to, is very clear. I believe that your decision on this matter should no longer be postponed. We need to be clear. I shall come back to this matter in the next committee, so that you have been able to take your decision. I assume that fifteen days or a month will be enough for you, since all the elements are in your possession, including the above-mentioned legal study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u33	Madam Minister, I have already told you of my greatest concern about the organization by Engie of the insolvency of Electrabel, of which we saw a new concrete trace through the payment of a dividend in kind of more than EUR 1.6 billion, which is difficult to explain in terms of the balance sheet and the results of the company. In response to my oral question, you announced that you had granted SYNATOM an eight-day period to demonstrate that Electrabel offered sufficient guarantees to meet its borrower obligations and its legal obligations as a debtor of nuclear provisions related to the application of the "polluter pays" principle. I am asking you today about the reply sent by SYNATOM to your letter of 17 May. During our exchange on 6 June, you indicated to us that, apart from the positive response to the governance measure relating to independent directors, you could not find in this letter of reply or response indicating that further actions were being carried out by SYNATOM. Above all, you informed us of SYNATOM's response to the Committee on Nuclear Supplies for information and opinion. I interrogated you on the 4th of July. You then informed me that you had not yet received a response from the CPN. I assume that since then this opinion has come to your attention. I would therefore like to read it and receive a copy of it. I would also like you to be able to communicate to us the conclusions and recommendations you have taken, as well as the actions you intend to take so as not to remain with SYNATOM's unsatisfactory response, in your words. Minister, how are you going to look for these guarantees that you asked SYNATOM and, behind this subsidiary, Electrabel and Engie and that they did not give you in the reply dated May 24th?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u34	Mr President, I obviously confirm that I have received the answer from the Committee on Nuclear Supplies on 10 July, as I had already informed you earlier. I'll give it to you. As regards compliance with the provisions of the Act of 11 April 2003, the Commission finds that the information provided by SYNATOM is correct. Nevertheless, she drew my attention to some observations. First of all, the first person responsible for ensuring the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions is the provisioning company. Second, a rating and debt ratio are indicators of financial health, but do not provide financial guarantees per se. Finally, a rating is an ex post appraisal. The CPN also reminded me of the importance of the notification of ex ante information, as foreseen in its proposal to adapt the Act of 11 April 2003 currently under consideration by the Council of State. With regard to the independent directors to be installed on the board of directors of the nuclear supply company, the CPN drew my attention to a practice in the banking sector which requires the assessment of candidates as to their fit and proper character, that is, an assessment of their independence and their ability to perform that function. I refer you to the BNB Governance Manual of September 2017. Finally, I would like to remind you that I have tabled the proposal to adapt the law of 11 April 2003 on the government table and the decision taken by the Council of Ministers as set out in a previous reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and especially for the copy of the NPC's response. I will take the time to analyze this answer. I have the information you gave me orally and I will come back to it if necessary later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u36	Mr.President, Madam Minister, at the end of March your government announced that it had instructed you to table a draft bill reforming the system of degression of offshore overload at the Council of Ministers on May 31, 2018. What is the status of this project? Have you respected this timing? If not, when did you file or when do you intend to file such a text? The newspaper Le Soir of 6 August states that you would have turned back and that your government would no longer want to review the mechanism which Europe is criticising. Do you confirm this information and, if so, how do you justify it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u37	Mr President, honourable Member, before the summer holidays, we received a letter from the European Commission containing additional questions concerning the degression of offshore overload. We are working with CREG to answer these questions. We have contacted the Commission and are still in contact with it to deal with this issue. Our objective remains to defend the capacity system that you know, including a maximum beyond which some companies no longer pay electricity, knowing that the European Commission, on the other hand, finds it difficult to say again. We answer his questions and we continue the work without being able to prejudge, at this stage, the content of the Commission's decision or the timing of this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u38	Minister, can I summarize the situation as follows? The case is blocked because as long as it is in the hands of Europe, you can't move forward anyway, since the analysis is not finished on its side. Is it correct to present things like this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u39	You can say "locked," but it's an inevitable blockage. We have to go under the caudine forks of the European Competition Administration. I'll be out in a few weeks. The case's been on for a long time, and you know it. We are still discussing this issue with the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u40	But on the substance, at this stage, at the moment we are talking, you do not confirm that you have turned back on the mechanism that has been deposited?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u41	No. What has been written in the press goes beyond the framework in which we operate. I defend the Belgian system, I answer the Commission's questions and I exchange them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u43	Mr.President, Minister, your government announced in October 2017 that it had obtained an agreement on a guaranteed price of €79 per MWh for 16 years for the Seamade and Northwester 2 offshore parks. As Le Soir writes on August 6, everything seemed to be settled. Except that ten months later the royal decree approving this new support scheme had still not been published in the Monitor. What's the status of this case? The project promoters are beginning to become very impatient. Why was the text not passed on second reading before 21 July? When do you expect this text to enter into force? How are your contacts with Europe on this subject? What time limit will they put back their green or red light? Can you guarantee that despite your delays, the projects will end in time, i.e. in 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u44	Mr President, honourable Member, as you certainly know, a support scheme must be approved by decision of the European Commission before it enters into force. It is in this sense that the Council of Ministers of 27 April 2018 approved the text of the draft royal decree at first reading. It had also decided that such approval should be obtained by the European Commission before publishing the text. In the meantime, the scheme had been pre-notified to the Commission. After receiving the opinion of the Council of State, the Council of Ministers of 6 August 2018 approved the draft royal decree at second reading, adding a clause allowing the publication of the royal decree by maintaining a reservation on its entry into force, subject to the approval of the European Commission. This also responded to a request from the Council of State and allowed the process to be speeded up. Finally, you will certainly have noticed, this royal decree was signed by the Head of State on 17 August 2018 and published in the Belgian Moniteur on 27 August 2018. The scheme will enter into force after approval by the European Commission and the publication of a notification of such approval to the Belgian Monitor. In the meantime, having completed its informal notification process, the scheme has been formally notified to the Commission and is in the process of being completed. At present, there is no evidence that wind farms cannot be built and operated in 2020, as all the elements are combined to move in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u45	There is no indication that they could not!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u46	You think things the way you want them to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u47	I think that's going to happen. Let's be positive!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u48	That's right! Did I make a bad sentence? At present, there is no indication that wind farms could not be built and operated in 2020, as all the elements are combined to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u49	There!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u50	Madam Minister, La Libre of 27 July tells us that in your draft bill to further secure nuclear supplies as sent to the Council of State, you do not solve the problem of the availability of provisions, linked in particular to the guarantee to be required of Engie on the amounts borrowed. Madam Minister, why not settle this in the law, as many of the actors ask, especially the former Engie official who participated in the negotiations on the plan called Bianca at the time? How and when will you solve this problem and avoid any risk? Do you confirm that you will comply with Engie's requirement to deal with this problem only in the context of an agreement between the Belgian Government and the nuclear operator? Why make such a choice which risks quickly bringing the bill back to the Belgian State and therefore to the citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u51	Mr President, the Committee on Nuclear Supplies (CPN) made a proposal to amend the Act of 11 April 2003 because the framework put in place at the time did not seem adequate to enable it to exercise prudential control sufficiently effectively. It should be remembered that in 2003 the law was accompanied by a convention that was published in parliamentary documents. This text proposed by the CPN was submitted to and approved by the Government on 26 July. Since then, it has been under consideration in the Council of State and I await its opinion in order to refer it to a working group. Parliament will then decide, once we have made the necessary adjustments, including any adjustments that might result from a strengthening and possibly a second move to the Council of State, as I am in favour. You're saying I'm in line with Engie's requirement. I don't comply with anyone's demand, you should know! Whether or not there will be a convention based on the state of the government's thinking on the process that is still aimed at strengthening the 2003 legislative framework in this case in two stages. The aim is, of course, that the polluter pays principle be applied and that the consumer does not have to settle anything at the end of the financial provision for the treatment of nuclear waste in a few years' time. The file is large and very complex, on the understanding that dismantling will only take place from 2040 onwards and will continue until the final closure, around 2120. We must therefore be able to imagine this whole journey and be able to finance it with a sufficiently strict framework and money today that will have to be sufficient when we need it to carry out the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u52	Mr President, you can already act on my parliamentary question in 2121.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u53	You'll still be a parliamentarian! You're sure of yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u54	If you're still a minister, I'll still be a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u55	That's what I was saying. It's the 25th volume.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u56	I asked Mr. Cheron to see how to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u57	It'll be a novel!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u58	More seriously, behind your reply, we note that at this stage, in the text as it is sent to the Council of State, you do not solve the problem of availability. You solve a whole series of other problems
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u59	The powers of the NPC are strengthened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u60	Not least.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u61	It's important!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u62	I didn't say otherwise. I'm saying you're not fixing the availability problem. You are strengthening the powers of the CPN, it is necessary, in particular, for the ex ante training you have just mentioned. But here, there's a dimension that's not in the text and it's challenging. You leave a door open saying "maybe second reading" and we will return, if necessary, to the Council of State a second time. But it is on the bottom that I intervene here. By not strengthening the guarantees on availability problems, you are taking the risk that this will ultimately fall on the citizens. I will pay particular attention – and that will not surprise you – to the content of the final text that you will be presenting to Parliament so that this problem of availability is also addressed in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u63	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, following the announced departure of Ms. Fauconnier from the position of Chair of the Steering Committee of the CREG, a replacement procedure was initiated. In La Libre Belgique on 5 September, you announced that your chief of staff had applied. The day before, De Standaard wrote that she denied being a candidate for such a position. Who's telling the truth? Furthermore, in La Libre Belgique, you also state that you will have your say at the end of the process and that there would probably be some room for manoeuvre among the candidates selected by the Selor. What exactly do you mean? How did you organize things about this? What are the timetable and methodology for this? What about the other Executive Committee positions? Overall, minister, do you not think that, if it is confirmed that your chief of staff is a candidate, it would be necessary for you to withdraw from any participation in the decision? De Standaard suggests that, anyway, the games are made and that the position is already assigned to the MR, probably to your chief of staff. What is your reaction to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u64	Mr President, honourable Member, with regard to your first question, to be exact, I would say that I answered that she was a candidate. I do not know at what time she has submitted or will submit her application, knowing that at the request of the Selor, I have extended the deadline for the submission of applications until 19 September, i.e. tomorrow. I just wanted to be transparent in answering this journalist's question, as we work together on a daily basis. De Standaard recaptures an article from L'Écho and makes it his honey, with the statements he thinks he must make but everyone is free in this country, free of his choices, free to change his mind or not. It's not a question of truth. In this case, the only truth will be that of the applications posted in fine to the Selor. In fact, I remind you that a royal decree of 13 July 2012 regulates all this in an extremely precise way. Article 2, which is found in Chapter 1, Section 1 of this Order, which refers to the call for applications, provides that "in accordance with the requirements of independence of the Commission and the Royal Decree of 3 May 1999 laying down the rules applicable to the Chairman and to the members of the Management Committee of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission with regard to incompatibilities and conflicts of interest, the description of the function and the profile of competence of the Chairman and the members of the Committee shall be determined as follows: Point 1: for the function of Chairman of the Management Committee, the description of the function and the competency profile shall describe the competences, including in particular with regard to the management of the Commission, in accordance with the third sentence of Article 24(2), paragraph 2, of the Electricity Act." I'll send you back. "Article 3: "A call for applications shall be made by the Minister having the Energy in his powers, hereinafter referred to as the 'Minister', for the office of Chairman of the Management Committee and for that of a member of the Management Committee, whenever a position is vacant." I don't see where I would have a choice, since the law designates me. That's what I did. The call is published in the Moniteur belge. Section 2 deals with selection. Article 4 states that "Candidates shall be submitted to the Selor, the selection office of the federal administration, which shall examine their admissibility. All applications declared admissible shall be forwarded to the Selection Committee of the Selor." Article 5: "A candidate whose application has been declared admissible shall present an oral examination before the Selection Board, starting with a practical case relating to the position to be filled. The purpose of this test is to assess both the specific competencies of the function performed and the skills required to perform the function concerned." Paragraph 2: "The oral examination shall be preceded by computer tests organised by the Selor, the purpose of which is to identify the management and organisational skills of the candidates and their personality." You see that the Selor has his hands on all this along and wide. "As far as the Chairman of the Management Committee is concerned, he is the first interlocutor of the other members of the Management Committee and must, through his previous experience, have managerial capabilities and the competence to lead the management team." Under Article 6, the selection board shall consist of seven members: the managing director of the Selor or his delegate, an external expert in the management of the Francophone linguistic role and an expert in the same qualities of the Dutch-speaking linguistic role, an external expert in the management of human resources of the French-speaking linguistic role and the Dutch-speaking linguistic role, an external expert independent of the French-speaking linguistic role and the Dutch-speaking role having a particular knowledge or experience of the energy markets and who do not perform any function or activity, whether remunerated or not, at the service of the network manager, one of the owners of the network, a producer, a distributor or an intermediary, as defined in Article 2 of the Electricity Act, or an electricity or gas undertaking regulated by the Commission. To arrive at the appointment of the chair and members of the committee, I move to section 8 of the Royal Order of July 13, 2012. I am already addressing a part of the answer that I will give you later. To talk about Article 8, I have to talk about the end of the tests, referred to in Article 7 of this decree: "After the tests, the tests and the comparison of the qualifications and merits of the candidates by the Selor, the candidates are registered either in the 'apte' group or in the 'not fit' group. This entry shall be accompanied by a statement of reasons. Candidates are informed of their registration in one of the groups. This registration shall be sent by the Selor in the form of a list, together with the candidates declared suitable for the position to be filled, to the Minister." I then intervene again, since Article 8 specifies that I must have "a supplementary interview (...) with the candidates of the 'aptes' group in order to compare them with regard to their specific skills, their relational skills and their abilities to lead in relation to the job description and the competency profile relating to the job to be filled". I'm going back to my answers. I pointed out that I had my say: I do not necessarily see how I might not have my say, since Article 8 obliges me to do so and to organise a round of exchanges with the candidates declared, tested and audited by the Selor, in order to make a proposal to the Council of Ministers, as Article 9 provides. It provides that the Minister shall forward a proposal for appointment to the Council of Ministers and that, after the communication of that proposal, the selected candidates shall be appointed for a period of six years to the office of chairman or member of the Committee, etc. I didn't want to say anything other than what the royal decree provides for and obliges me to do. You're asking me how I organized things about that. I'll say it again. I had a notice published to the Belgian Monitor and asked the Selor to initiate the recruitment procedure as provided for in the law. To answer your question, the schedule comes to the Selor and the steps will be carried out in accordance with the procedures of the Selor, whose operation I absolutely do not know. I am absolutely not familiar with such recruitment procedures since I come from an independent professional environment. What about the other Executive Committee positions? You see that when a position is vacant, I have to fill it. It's the royal decree that says it, so that's what I did. When these other positions come to an end, and with the exception of other early resignations, recruitments will be launched. You ask me if it is necessary for me to withdraw from any participation in the decision. If I follow you, because of his position, my Chief of Staff should refrain from being a candidate for this position. Do I have to understand that you want a reform of the legislation in general? If this is the case, it would deprive a firm's collaborator of the possibility of asserting his or her competence simply because he or she has consolidated them through his or her visit to a firm. If it is confirmed that my Chief of Staff has applied or that she will do so - since the deadline falls tomorrow - it will pass like all the other candidates - you can trust me - the computerised examinations as well as the interview with the independent jury constituted, as foreseen by the Royal Decree, by the Selor. Then it will be up to the Minister of Energy - I, in this case, if I am still in office - to hear the selected candidates, which I will do. From Standaard let it be heard that the games are made. Journalists write what they want. For my part, I confirm that the function is open to all. Moreover, we have extended the deadline for the submission of applications. The selection of the winners will be the responsibility of an independent jury. In any event, I will submit a proposal - as I am required by law - to the Council of Ministers, which will finally take its decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u65	Mr President, the situation is very unhealthy. I quickly come to the point, minister, that in twenty-four hours you contradict your chief of staff. Indeed, you state that she is a candidate, even though she did not recognize him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u66	She can change her mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u67	No, it cannot, since at that time, the applications have already been submitted. You're telling me that she "is" in this procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u68	I'm saying she's a candidate. This does not necessarily mean that she has applied. So don't play on words! I see her every day. If I were you, I'd wait for sleep again! - tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u69	Excuse me, but you say in the press, "The trials are ongoing. My Chief of Staff is one of them." It's not "will - will - will, maybe, wait tomorrow", but well "are in progress - is part of it". Your answer today is slightly different.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u70	So you want me to apply for him?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u71	No, because this is a secondary problem compared to the one I wanted to address. If your chief of staff is deemed fit by the Selor, after submitting his candidacy in time, do not fall behind this order. You've got to get out of here. You must withdraw, you must be replaced. It's not because the law says "it's the minister," that it must be you. I assume that you are still sufficiently experienced in public appointments, even from the private sector and the independent world, to know that there is a clear conflict of interest if you have to receive your chief of staff and report to the government what you think. Anyone, even the one who has not done the right, finds that there is a problem in this matter. You've got to get out of here. There must of course be a minister who receives them, it must not be you: there are enough colleagues in the Council of Ministers. That's where the problem lies! I assume that colleagues will not deny me, and even less the president, that in the face of such situations, when the minister has to receive her chief of staff to audition her as well as any other candidates deemed suitable by the Selor, there is a conflict of interest problem. I ask you to withdraw, contrary to what you say in your answer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u72	Mr President, first of all, I will not, but I will make a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u73	Minister, the incident is over, the reply is over and the point is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u74	When I asked you on 23 May about the status of the future capacity compensation mechanism, you said that "the aim is to discuss it before the end of this month in the Council of Ministers and then discuss it with the European Commission". You also stated that, I quote, "the IKWs are currently being organised to discuss the draft which will shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The aim is to be able to visit the European Commission in June." Since this commitment in terms of timetable could not be met, our exchange continued on 4 July. On that occasion, you said: "I can tell you that a meeting of IKW was still taking place today. I hope it will be the last because it is the 13th on this highly complex case. I should therefore be able this week, I hope, to table this draft on the table of the Council of Ministers." I therefore come back to you today, more than a month and a half later, because the question could not be dealt with in July, whether the text has been tabled or even adopted in the Council of Ministers and whether you have been able to go to the Commission. I would also like to know the broad guidelines since you committed yourself to the adoption of this text in May.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u75	Minister, at the Council of Ministers on July 20, the government approved a draft bill on the capacity compensation mechanism. This mechanism must provide guarantees for the construction of new gas-fired power plants in our country. I would like to know what are the broad outlines of the mechanism chosen by the government? What will be the estimated cost to consumers? And knowing that a consultation procedure with the European Commission is under way, how soon can this draft be tabled in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u76	Mr President, Minister, a number of colleagues have already made it clear that the capacity mechanism was one of the important aspects of the federal energy strategy. The preliminary draft has now been approved, so I have a number of questions. Firstly, what are for you the main thrust of the new mechanism? Secondly, it is quite clear that it is vital for the European Commission to approve this matter in order to be able to apply it. As long as there is no clarity, no investor will decide to build new capacity. What is the timetable for the negotiations and talks with the European Commission in this area? Thirdly, in the newspapers there was a specific auction for new capacity, of paying for the construction of a gas plant. The Federal Participation and Investment Company is also mentioned there. She would be commissioned to build those power stations herself. Is this option also linked to technology neutrality? How do you see this option? Do you know of similar examples, where a mechanism was approved by the European Commission for the construction of state power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u77	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, with the beginning of the year, it is also time to take stock of the progress of the federal energy strategy agenda. In particular, it was envisaged that a draft law on the energy standard would be tabled in the Council of Ministers before 20 July. With regard to the preliminary draft of the capacity compensation mechanism originally scheduled for 31 May, it was tabled at the last Council of Ministers before the parliamentary holidays. As far as the energy standard is concerned, I still don't see anything coming on the horizon. You told me, the last time I asked you about the subject, that a proposal to reform the degression and cap on electro-intensive consumers was tabled on the interdepartmental working group table. You added that the negotiations would be long and passionate but that the government would remain in control of its timetable. Now what's the case? Have you at least reached an agreement on the definition of electro-intensivity? Can you give me more details about your calendar, since you say you are in charge of it? With regard to the capacity compensation mechanism, what does the draft law submitted to the Council of Ministers on 20 July provide for? Is it completed or will it require a second reading? When do you think you can submit it to this commission? How long do you expect to be able to launch the first one-off auctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u78	Mr President, on the energy standard, with the agreement of Mr de Lamotte, I would prefer to send him a written answer, because I do not have a specific answer here. It seems that this point has been forgotten in the answers that have been prepared for me. But I know the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u79	In these circumstances, thank you for addressing us without delay, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u80	That's right. With regard to the mechanism chosen by the government to pay for capacity in Belgium, this is the centralized reliability option system. This volume based system is based on the functioning of the market and on the principle of technological neutrality. Capacity providers shall be remunerated for the provision of their capacity through participation in auctions, with the exception of ancillary services and congestion management measures. This reliability option mechanism has been retained, in particular, as it reduces windfall profits and leaves market signals intact. It also limits the need for additional penalties. The auction participants will be all capacity holders who, after being selected at the end of the pre-qualification procedure, wish to participate in the auction. A production capacity holder located in the Belgian adjustment area above a defined capacity threshold shall submit a dossier as part of the pre-qualification procedure. Any holder of the demand and storage area capacity located in the Belgian setting area, above a defined capacity threshold, may submit a dossier as part of the pre-qualification procedure. This pre-qualification procedure and participation in the auction will also be open to capacity holders located outside Belgian territory in accordance with arrangements laid down by the King before the first auction, after the advice of the Commission and the Network Manager. These arrangements will take into account the effective contribution of this capacity to Belgium's security of supply and to agreements concluded between network operators. The foreign capacity directly connected via a single direct cable can participate in the CRM with the same rights and obligations as the national capacity. On the basis of assumptions made at the beginning of 2018, PwC estimated in its study the cost of the facility to be EUR 344.9 million per year, i.e. a range of EUR 10-19 per megawatt/hour for a household. This cost is obtained by deducting from the amounts paid to pay for capacity (EUR 351 million per year) the paybacks. The amount of $344.9 million is not a definitive value. The actual annual cost will be strongly influenced by the parameters actually taken into account, including the clearing price (in T1) and the volume of capacity missing. With respect to the issue of the Federal Equity and Investment Corporation (FIPS), I can say that it will only be used as a future option if it turns out that security of supply in the country is compromised. The specific procedure has not been established, but it is true that the operation of this plant, once built, will be left to a private undertaking, in accordance with the principles of the functioning of the market. This is the emergency procedure that I have used in case I cannot launch the auctions in a comprehensive and broad manner in order to have the necessary capacity to get out of nuclear power. As far as exchanges with the Commission are concerned, we started them in August. We have received a flight of questions, which we are answering. The deadline for responding to this request is until the end of September. I am telling you a few words about the energy standard, and there will be some clarifications in the written answer. For us, and for government members, the energy standard is linked to offshore degression. You know that on offshore degression, we have, for a long time, a dossier with the European Commission. This is indeed the same problem, since the energy standard is influenced by decisions to cover certain costs of electricity generation, in particular offshore electricity, in the price of electricity finally charged either to companies, according to their profile, or to consumers. This is where the "triangulation of the circle" comes in, as I called it, since I was asked, more than a year ago, to try to find a way to balance the three summits of the triangle, namely the state budget, private consumers and electro-intensive industrial consumers. There are several definitions of electro-intensivity. We are, of course, discussing this with Europe. For the moment, since the energy standard is influenced by the three levels of power, we, together with the regional ministers, have asked FORBEG, the association of Belgian regulators, to make proposals on this matter. We're waiting for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u81	Colleagues, are there any lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u82	Mr President, given the technical nature of the case, I shall first read the written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u83	Mr President, Minister, we will look into it in detail and see what the European Commission makes of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u84	When you see the text, you will understand its complexity. We will have a few hours of quite exciting commission!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u85	Madam Minister, I look forward to more information that you are going to give me. On the content, I note that we are still waiting for a number of elements and that for three months things have not come out publicly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u86	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the wake of the exchanges we had in July, Le Soir of 22 August confirms that the estimated cost of storing waste B and C will explode, from 3.2 billion to 8 or 10 billion. Do you find that such a development in costing is normal? Do you not consider that there is a problem to have for a long time underestimated this cost? What hypothesis are you going to use: 10 billion, 8 billion, more than 10 billion? Can you commit yourself to an evaluation of the cost of the worst box, the worst-case scenario, as requested by different well-placed actors? How deep is it in the cost estimates of 8 and over $10 billion? Is there a limit to 400 metres or is the demand of the PSAN to estimate costs at greater depths finally taken into account? What form of reversibility is used in the cost estimates of 8 and over $10 billion? Did you address this issue of re-evaluation of costs during your contacts with the top of Engie? During our exchange on 4 July, you told us that you had formalized a series of questions to ONDRAF at the end of June. Can you give us the list of questions? Have you ever received an answer to these questions? If so, what are they? Can we get them? Will you accept ONDRAF's proposal to work only on an evaluation valid for two years rather than covering a period of five or even seven years? The newspaper L'Écho points out that another major uncertainty still weighs on the final cost, whether or not waste is reprocessed. The newspaper concludes by stating that the current estimates are based on partial reprocessing while a moratorium has been decided and that if such reprocessing does not take place, this will further increase the addition. What hypothesis was used in this respect in the scenario of more than 10 billion and in the scenario of 8 billion? What is your position in terms of parameters to be used on this part of the cost assessment? Here too, are we going to work properly with the worst box?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u87	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Nollet recalled the gap between 3.2 billion and 8 to 10 billion in order to ensure the storage of the most dangerous waste. He also asked a series of very specific questions. I'll only take two. First, what is the cost you are going to bear, minister? What are the baseline scenarios used by ONDRAF in terms of soil types, depths, recoverability and reversibility? Secondly, what is the timetable and the follow-up you will give to this re-evaluation so that it is not the citizen but the waste producers who cover the future costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u88	Madam Minister, this summer some adjusted estimates have been published in the newspapers for a deeper recovery, and thus higher costs. Firstly, the government agreement stated that national policies would be specific to this waste and that the municipalities concerned would be chosen following a wide participatory process. Can you explain the evolution of the cost of storage? Secondly, the SYNATOM Act is also being amended. In what way do you guarantee that the operator will remain responsible for the higher costs that will result from this? What is the state of play in this respect? Thirdly, where are you on the implementation of the passage of the government agreement on B and C waste? What route are you planning? NIRAS' waste plan has already been explained in an initial version in Parliament. That happened even in the previous legislature. Will you reopen this debate? What steps can we expect from you in the coming months? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to answer such questions on several occasions. I understand that the subject is so important, since I am asked several times the same questions. At the same time, this subject is still about a very long term, as I said earlier. I'll talk about costing and pricing. ONDRAF determines the baseline scenario for the long-term management of radioactive waste, applied in the context of the assessment of the costs of waste storage and storage activities. This scenario takes into account the reference programmes of nuclear waste producers. It is based on a series of assumptions and is underlying the financial calculations. It is therefore not univotly linked to a national policy, and it has always been so. I'm making an important incise here. Having a national policy "which is limited to the principle of geological storage" in 2018 does nothing more or more specific in the context of the cost assessment. The ONDRAF suggests the opposite, especially since there will be no fixed national policy, i.e. frozen until its last stage, before 2035-2040. It is an evolutionary process in stages, as you have already understood. As he did in the past, ONDRAF acts in the same way. The fact that national policy is progressing in stages and will not be frozen until 2035-2040 does not prevent ONDRAF from establishing costings that remain, as always, based on realistic and prudent scenario assumptions. There is therefore no urgency to decide quickly on a national policy. The fact of deciding quickly today will not reduce the current time until the final stage is fixed in 2035-2040. The same iterative process will always be set at that time and not before. The ONDRAF has no idea of its programme of activities in this area, between a decision taken in 2018 and 2040, because it follows a route! So he's moving step by step. We cannot demand both that things are not decided urgently, as I often hear, and at the same time insist that the decision be taken quickly. It doesn't make sense. I repeat what I have already explained in July. The Board of Directors of ONDRAF of 29 June validated the general terms of the reference scenario and only became aware – at this stage in the case – of the methods, assumptions and cost estimates. In addition, he mandated the Director General to calculate the fees covering the period 2019-2020. They can therefore act independently of the long iterative process running until 2035-2040. These evaluations will have to be submitted to the next Board of Directors for approval. For the time being, ONDRAF and its Board of Directors have not yet approved costing or pricing. I would remind you that the regulatory and legal framework of ONDRAF provides for a treaty mechanism in the preparation of tariffs and that it alone is manoeuvring, because that is its prerogative. The current treaty period will end on 31 December. For this reason, ONDRAF should consider the period 2019-2020. I have also told you that I have recently met with ONDRAF to find out the progress of its work and to ask him some questions. Last Friday, he provided several answers to my firm. I expect a formal response from him, so that we can analyse it. It seems essential to me that the cost estimates be computable and that they contain the appropriate criteria to ensure that pricing and, more importantly, the means of ONDRAF are sufficient to meet future costs. If additional estimates are to be made, they will need to be progressively refined, but always within a sufficiently prudent framework. This is what European Recommendation 2006/851/Euratom calls for. I've already said it and I'm saying it again. With regard to the legislative context relating to nuclear power provisions, there is in itself no relation to the proposed amendments currently under consideration by the Government. The aim of these measures is to improve the prudential supervision carried out by the CPN with a view to even better guaranteeing the existence, availability and sufficiency of the provisions. There is a coupling, in accordance with the ONDRAF baseline scenario used as the basis for the establishment of nuclear supplies, but only for the cost of radioactive waste. It is the responsibility of the Commission for Nuclear Supplies to exercise prudential control over the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions. The same committee shall review the provisions every three years. The next revision is planned for 2019. In this context, the Commission on Nuclear Supplies informed me, firstly, that it needed adequate information from ONDRAF on the new costing that would be established – and this is under way; secondly, that the approach taken by ONDRAF in its assumptions is more industrial and not technocratic or academic. I have conveyed to ONDRAF these legitimate concerns of the CNP. With regard to your question of reprocessing, I would remind you that, in the absence of a moratorium, it is indeed a request for equal treatment and direct evacuation; this request has been in place since 1998. And I did. In addition, in the last fiscal year, which dates back to 2016, the evaluation of the downstream management costs of the fuel cycle, it was the financial scenario containing the reprocessing - in the sense that it is only used to determine the amount of the provisions - that proved to be the most expensive and used to evaluate the provisions prudently. There is a third sub-question by Mr Wollants and question No 26740 by Mr Nollet, which concerns the progress of the draft national policy on the geological storage of radioactive waste. I would like to repeat it if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u90	Minister, I hear that no later than last Friday, you have had discussions with ONDRAF again and that things are going to become clearer with the September Board of Directors. Once again, I insist that the prudence, which you boast about in your answer, be translated into concrete consideration by the ONDRAF of the worst-case scenario. The worst case scenario is not 400 metres deep but 600 metres deep. This is what AFCN has said in the past: more than 400 metres; it also refers to situations in Switzerland in particular, where we are 800-900 metres away. However, for the time being, in the document to which you refer and which has been validated in the general terms, we are talking about 400 metres. There is therefore a gap that prevents visibility on the costing of the worst-case scenario. I ask you to make a commitment to have the worst scenario quantified, not only on depth but also on reversibility and emergency exits. In short, all the elements pointed out by the AFCN at the time and which today are not reflected in the general principles as mentioned by the previous ONDRAF Board of Directors and which may need to be adapted as a result of your dialogue with the latter. Minister, can you commit to having these elements taken into consideration so that the worst-case scenario is retained? I take an example without the elements I just brought. Between $8 billion and $10 billion, the worst case scenario is $10 billion. The 10 billion, not the 8 billion, must be calculated and taken into account in the fees requested. I assume you agree that public authority and citizens should be protected from the risk of nuclear costs by opting for the 10 billion scenario. Do you agree with this reasoning?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u91	I'm in line with the scenario you call the worst-case scenario. But the worst has no substance and excellence has no summit either! There's always worse and there's always better. Of course, I would prefer to see a scenario of 10 billion, that's clear. But don't forget that there is the conventional perspective, which is regulated by law. We must be able to do this with the operator too. We can talk about any amount, but all this needs to be implemented in practice. In addition to the figures we refer to the figure, there are industrialists, there are technical data, scientific data that I do not know. I wait, and it is for this reason that I have many contacts with ONDRAF, explanations, that I seek as I go. So I'm tending towards a scenario like this and I'm trying to do what it takes to get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u92	I thank you, first of all, for this supplement, which is still important. On the substance, in the House, we do not rely on figures imagined but on figures presented to the board of directors of ONDRAF. The billions haven't fallen from the sky...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u93	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u94	I agree, and I think they are still insufficient in relation to the other elements that I put on the table in our discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u95	The worst is never sure but it is always possible with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u96	I am referring to the indications of the AFCN. This is not the worst one could imagine but the worst seen by the AFCN in 2011 as the minimum to guarantee: 600 meters, reversibility and well-related elements, which must be in sufficient number. I guess you're not going to get in the way of AFCN's requirements. And that requires a change beyond 10 billion. These 10 billion do not integrate these elements. Nevertheless, I take note of the 10 billion option. The legal framework requires that, if there is no agreement with the operator, the government decides. So do not fall behind the fact that there is a need for an Engie agreement on the 10 billion, since in the end you will have the hand. Consensus must not be achieved at any price! I wanted to remind you, knowing that the moment is difficult and that we are not talking about a few thousand euros. But I also know that if we do not provide enough, it will weigh on the citizen, which is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u97	Madam Minister, even if you say that nuclear supplies have nothing to do with ONDRAF, I do not think that the consumer should bear the cost of recycling nuclear waste. It's really not possible. We know how long this will take. We know that multinationals can dissolve a thousand and one subsidiaries. We know how much they will try to escape their responsibilities. I am not going to talk about the worst case scenario, but I think it is important to count large for the public, consumers, the government to be completely covered with regard to this nuclear waste, so that we do not have to pay the bill in a few decades or hundreds of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u98	Madam Minister, it is important that this dossier be crystallised and that it be made clear where and where. There will indeed be a great deal of work to be done to properly assess all the figures and all the scenarios, but we must take them into account. We must indeed ensure that at the end of the journey the right people pay. I believe that it is also your duty to ensure that this is done. I understand from your answer that you are working on that. We will continue to follow up this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u99	Mr President, I would like to clarify the use of the concept of 'worst scenario'. This is my own translation of the technical concept worst case. I would like to say that there is no question of a science fiction scenario. This is about taking into account the most expensive conditions in a realistic scenario. It's just a technical term I'm using. This is not a scenario involving science fiction aspects. I just wanted to make it clear for the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u100	We take note of this technical clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u101	The press informs us that with your colleague Mr. From Backer, you have had the government adopt a policy note on offshore bidding for new wind farms starting in 2020. Can you give us a copy of this note? What additional capacity are you aiming at and by which deadline(s)? Are you, with this new call, to the maximum of the possibilities on the part allocated to Belgium? What principles and framework have you adopted for this appeal? What do you imagine about the deployment of the offshore in parts of the North Sea not specifically attributed to a country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u102	Minister, it was, as Mr Nollet said during the Council of Ministers on 31 August, that the government approved the principles of a call for tenders for new offshore wind farms from 2020. I would like to know the details of the government's decision? What is the new capacity decided by the government? Will new wind turbines require financial support from consumers or is another method being considered? Finally, what places are they envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u103	The Memorandum of Principles on the offshore call for tenders for new wind farms, as well as the Marine Spaces Development Project 2020-2026, foresees several additional areas dedicated to renewable energy production for a total of about 221 km2 north-west of the Belgian North Sea. The goal is to achieve a total capacity of 4 gigawatts by 2030 and to optimize the amount of energy supplied on the grid. This is also the commitment made within the framework of the Energy Pact. The originality of the past is, of course, the desire to minimize the impact on consumers, households and businesses by competing with promoters. At the planning level, the policy note assumes that the new wind farms will be put into operation from 2026 onwards. The new zones dedicated to the production of renewable energy, with a total area of 221 km2 included in the draft plan for the development of marine areas 2020-2026, are the result of the plan of discussions between the various actors and authorities active in the Belgian North Sea. Increasing the area dedicated to the production of renewable energy should not, of course, limit the pursuit of other activities in these marine areas or harm wildlife. These areas dedicated to the production of renewable energy require the use of the Natura 2000 zone of 110 km2 or 50% of the planned area. This requires an environmental impact assessment to assess the impact of renewable energy production in this protected area. Nevertheless, the best thing you can do is to discuss this type of issue in more depth, if I can say so, with my colleague, Secretary of State for the North Sea, Philippe De Backer. What are the principles in this note? The government is opting for a tendering mechanism to achieve the following three-pronged objectives. An additional wind capacity, allowing to reach a total of 4 gigawatts in 2030, a maximum amount of energy delivered on the grid in gigawatts-hour and a minimum cost to the consumer, directly or indirectly. The legislative framework must be adapted in such a way as to allow bidders sufficient freedom to propose the best project economically, meeting the objectives mentioned and respecting environmental and other regulations, depending on what will be revealed by the pre-investigations. The design of the area – turbines, foundations, admitted overcapacity, connection to network infrastructure and others – and the modalities of the call for tenders will be important elements, determined gradually. I come to a possible development in the parts of the North Sea not specifically attributed to a country. As you know, since the establishment of the MOG, the Modular Offshore Grid, the sea-take consisting of a network and a common platform at sea on and linked to the onshore terrestrial electricity grid, will allow us to envisage long-term development, towards a centralized point at sea, for example for connection to a large offshore grid in Europe, in order to transport the renewable energy produced to the consumption centres, via future direct current networks. Discussions on the deployment of offshore renewable energy sources in the North Sea include the North Sea Energy Cooperation, which brings together the various Member States neighbouring the North Sea, such as Holland, Denmark, Great Britain, Belgium of course, France and Germany, to name but a few. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u104	Madam Minister, would we be able to receive a copy of the note that you had adopted in the Council of Ministers? That was the subject of my question. I'm talking about the note as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u105	I'm going to ask my colleague De Backer who – I suppose – will not stand in the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u106	Thank you. Also, with regard to the last part of your reply, were you also referring to the extraterritorial zones of the countries concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u107	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u108	I want to make sure I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u109	The Belgian territorial sea, since it is modular, will be able to connect, through international waters, various offshore parks in the North Sea to bring electricity to our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u110	Beyond the 4 gigawatts you are planning, can we also imagine parks in the international areas of the sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u111	Not Belgian parks in the international area of the sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u112	No, international parks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u113	This is the purpose of the North Seas Energy Cooperation, which is the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u114	For the moment, you do not include it in the Energy Pact figures. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u115	For now, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u116	What about the prospects in terms of power?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u117	I don't know. This is a subject that we could look at, but we are only at the very beginning. I cannot give you a deadline for the implementation of the cooperation agreement we have signed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u118	I will ask you a specific question later on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u119	For now, I'm only talking about the Belgian Federal Sea. We will reach our maximum capacity in terms of infrastructure installation in the Belgian federal territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u120	I will return to a later question on the capabilities in international waters, even though I know that the subject is evolving.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u121	Mr President, Madam Minister, when we read the report of the Strategic Committee, we see that EUR 60 billion of investments would be announced in the field of energy. Nine billion would come from public authorities in the broad sense and 51 billion from the private sector. The 9 billion from the public sector are entirely earmarked for the renovation of public buildings. I would like to know how those 9 billions are broken down between the different levels of power and whether they are only energy-saving works or renovations in the broad sense? With regard to the 51 billion from the private sector, can you communicate to us, if necessary in the form of a written table, the operators concerned and the projects concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u122	Mr President, Madam Member, the Strategic Committee of the National Pact for Strategic Investments included a Working Group on Energy, composed of Ms Sioen, Mr Debergh and Mr Debergh. Van der Maren, Professor Albrecht and Pre Tine Baelmans. It has produced a report which has been published in tabular form, detailing private and public investment. Private investment accounts for the largest share, with EUR 51 billion compared to EUR 9 billion in public investment. A table details precisely the nature of these investments: - In-depth renovation of public buildings. I'm directly concerned. - The electricity mix guaranteeing security of supply, the development of renewable energy and the search for a solution to further reduce the cost of renewable energy. I am concerned and the offshore component is linked to it. - Strengthening the networks. In addition to the Elia plan, smart grids must develop. This is the responsibility of the Regions. - The development of storage. There's the energy transition fund. - The deployment of alternative fuels. It is in relation to taxation, but I am not directly involved in this matter. - And nuclear dismantling and waste management research. There are many projects in this area, on which my colleague, Mr Jan Jambon, should also be asked. In addition, I would like to remind you that this is an interim report. I do not yet have the final report. With my colleague Jambon, we have no control over private investment – but this, as you will understand, is automatically the result of the Energy Pact and all that is necessary to achieve this Energy Pact in terms of smart grids, energy sobriety, energy efficiency, clean fuels, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u123	Madam Minister, thank you. There was a question I asked you. Perhaps you could answer that? The 9 billion of renovations you mentioned, are they only for federal buildings or can they concern the different levels of power (regions, communities, provinces, municipalities, etc.) in public buildings since this is public money? I don't know if that's already determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u124	It's not determined yet. I don't want to be stingy or hurtful, but then everyone has to participate. The National Pact for Strategic Investments also concerns the Regions. The Prime Minister launched it as such in an effort to involve the Regions and the Communities. During the presentation, there were two particularly notable absences in the head of the Minister-President of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Minister-President of Brussels. There is no reason, in our view, that the investments made under this pact do not include the efforts to be made on buildings, including on the soil of the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u125	I was talking about regional buildings and not just buildings on the soil of the Regions. We have a lot of federal buildings in the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u126	If you want me to go into detail about the 9 billion, what is the assessment made by the working group I have mentioned to you about what is needed to renovate the buildings and which I will come back to you in a forthcoming committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u127	Yes, I understood, but is it not excluded that buildings that belong to another level of power can benefit from the 9 billion manna?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u128	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u129	Moreover, if I have understood correctly, for the 51 billion, we do not yet know who will put them or what they will depend on, except for the materials we have mentioned. Since this is only an interim report, it is still too early for this issue. So I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u130	In the document that is related to the table...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u131	I do not know whether this document and the table have been published.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u132	In my opinion, it's published. This is on page 61, figure 17. You have the picture and there, you have the answer that I intuitively made but which is confirmed since we associate the Regions. All our public buildings must be efficient and intelligent. This applies both to administrative buildings and, for example, to swimming pools, schools and public libraries, which are obviously eminently regional and communal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u134	Minister, the unavailability of Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear reactors was extended until December 10 and 31, 2018, respectively. Doel 4, meanwhile, will not be able to inject electricity into the grid until December 15, 2018. In Tihange, a revision is also scheduled from 20 October to 28 November on the first reactor. The other two reactors (2 and 3) are in full revision until 31 October and 30 September 2018, respectively. As a result, Doel 3 is the only non-stop reactor on which no action is planned this year. My logic is probably going to sound a bit catastrophistical, but I know from experience that revisions can often update problems or other damage and, therefore, extend for indefinite periods. At the same time, you have decided, as a follow-up to the latest projections of Elias, not to set up a strategic reserve this winter. However, these projections are based on a hypothesis that only 1 gigawatt of nuclear capacity will be unavailable this winter. In view of the various revisions I have just mentioned, it still seems to me a little optimistic. Is security of supply guaranteed, even if more than 1 gigawatt of nuclear capacity is unavailability and if there is a cold wave at the end of the year? Are alternative solutions foreseen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u135	Mr.Member, the Ministerial Order of 29 August 2018 which removes from transmission system operators the instruction given on 15 January 2018 to set up a strategic reserve considered a relevant development in the electricity market. It confirms the evolution that the stakeholders with whom I work on a daily basis have seen, in particular an improvement on certain parameters used in the daily flow-based market coupling mechanism. This ministerial order also takes into account – it was an express request from Europe and we have changed the framework of the strategic reserve according to its demands – the return to the market of the Seraing gas plant for 300 megawatts. I cannot foreshadow the future and do not hold a crystal ball allowing me to foreshadow damage that may occur on the production units this winter. The ministerial decree of 29 August considers a volume of 0 megawatt of strategic reserve, in view of the assumptions known at the end of August and relating both to the availability of thermal units – I have just reported the return of Seraing – and to the climate history. As you mentioned, a margin of safety has already been taken into account. It could not be overstated, so as not to hinder the competitiveness of our companies – it is really a European policy, with which we have discussed – and to respond to the European Commission's concern to review the volume in the event of a return to the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u136	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u137	I had almost arrived at 500 megawatts; 300 returned to the market. The difference is covered by market flows and coupling. Therefore, this is not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u138	Let's cross our fingers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-18-54-commissie-ic959x.u139	I agree with you. We'll meet them together.
