ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the secretariat and the minister's office have joined the inquiry with the other issues, there is no problem, I propose to do everything at once and not to take up the floor as and when.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u2	That's what we're going to do. We will ask the questions and questions, and the minister will answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u3	Should I put everything in my inquiry and attach questions or not? Personally, I don't care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u4	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u5	All right. Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, can we end the denial? On 9 October, we had a debate here in committee and you said, I quote: "This government must find that the operator has failed to provide foresight. We therefore have a one-time difficulty in dealing with, which we have already resolved. Indeed, in less than ten days we have found an additional capacity that we can activate on the network, so that we can guarantee the supply for this winter". Madam Minister, perhaps it was the approach of the communal elections that made you so confident and reassure the citizens that they could sleep on both ears. It seems to me, Madam Minister, that these statements are false. You will no doubt give us the latest figures, figures which you also communicated in plenary session during the debate...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u6	I don't have the text of your inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u7	There's never a text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u8	Okay, because sometimes I get the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u9	In addition to that, you have the attached questions. That's what we tabled three weeks ago, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u10	That's what I see on September 24th.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u11	So three weeks ago, and we obviously updated the text. I was therefore saying that, according to our information today, given that we have updated them, 700 MW are still missing for this winter. And again, this figure seems to us to be underestimated, because we know the uncertainties about part of the 750 MW you mentioned. In particular, you announced on 26 September that you had found them, but it seems to me that they are being questioned today. Madam Minister, it is true that the citizen has difficulty understanding because, at the time of the digital revolution, of artificial intelligence and electric cars, we are a little reduced and we depend on the weather to know if tomorrow we will not have to light ourselves candlelight in our cities. Minister, this is chaos. This chaos is the failure of the government's energy policy after four years in power. The first thing you have done is to remove the call for tenders launched by the Di Rupo government to set up new gas-fired power plants. Moreover, today there is still no concrete decision to build one. We reviewed the 2019 draft budget that we received. In this project, which you have just tabled in the House, I have found no funding for the support of gas power plants. I would therefore like to hear from you on this subject. After cancelling the call for tenders, we lost two long years for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2. What had convinced the parties of the majority, as Mr Wollants had repeated, was that nuclear was synonymous with low prices and security of supply. What do we see today? Six out of seven reactors are closed and the bill explodes. For the past four years, incidents have been taking place in the power stations. All the reactors had to be shut down at some point. The disaster was announced, but the government didn't see anything coming. Electrabel is the ideal scapegoat. We heard it from your mouth and from the Prime Minister's mouth: Electrabel kept you in the dark, Madam Minister. As you have been told, it is a confession of weakness and renunciation. The country's energy supply is a competence of the federal government, a competence that primarily concerns the well-being of the population, but also the competitiveness of our businesses. It is the policy which must have the hand and which had to keep it, but you have given it to a private company. Your role and that of your administration was obviously to cross-check the information that existed about the reactors as well as their closure – the AFCN, Elia and Electrabel holding such information – in order to properly map out the risks that could pose to security of supply this winter. Your role, Minister, is to ensure the general interest, as well as security of supply. And you have given up piloting and planning energy policy by putting the entire energy sector in the hands of the private sector. It's probably an ideological choice. An ideology that we do not share, but one that is that of the Liberals and whose results we see today. What I am asking today, Mr President, is for consumers and businesses to be placed at the centre of our country's energy policy. I ask that we protect the consumer from the current chaos and, above all, the increase in the cost of energy for households. The price of gas and electricity bills is now rising, as we know. Some spoke of an extra 400 euros, and for electricity alone it will be 110 euros extra. Today is the National or International Day for the Eradication of Poverty. International? Thank you, Mr. Nollet. And we know, Madam Minister, the precariousness of a large part of our population and, above all, the difficulty it has in paying its energy bills, which is an essential asset for us. We heard the Prime Minister, but maybe you still have some influence. I don't know and I'm beginning to doubt it. But for us, the government, as you know, can act immediately for a direct reduction of the bill by reducing the VAT to 6%. This is very easy to do and we will return to it until the end of the year, Madam Minister, because we are thinking above all about our households, about our population, and we know that in the framework of a programme law, a different law, we can include an article on the reduction of VAT. It's just "social justice," and we demand it. You were in Germany yesterday or the day before, and you brought back some good news. I would therefore have liked to hear from you about the agreements you could have concluded with Germany on security of supply this winter. I would also like to know exactly what is happening with the 750 MW you have announced and the 750 MW you are announcing that you have recovered at the end of September. What additional measures will you take for this winter? I mentioned this last time: do you intend to activate the OFF ON campaign, which worked well, and which empowers all citizens? You're saying Electrabel's gonna pay. I heard the Prime Minister say that too. Today, the citizen will already pay, through an increase in his bill. If the government starts an arm with Electrabel to get the money back, I agree a thousand times, Madam Minister. But I ask that this money be recovered when you have organized this agreement, and that the citizen not make an advance before the government can negotiate. I therefore ask you to reduce the VAT and to recover the money after, for the government's budget, from Electrabel. Do not pass between the two to the detriment of consumers or businesses, who would then pay for what you may never recover. I attach my other questions, Mr. President. The next one was on the supply crisis this summer. My more specific question was about the agreement with Germany, and I asked you that. I would also like to know the exact composition of the task force you have set up. You said that only Electrabel was participating, and you said it again in plenary. Where are the other producers such as EDF or aggregators? What about solutions such as the installation of generators on Electrobel sites? Such solutions were mentioned. Are they considered? Are they feasible for this winter, especially with regard to the necessary environmental permits? How many megawatts would we get this channel? With regard to interconnections, what are the margins in terms of maximizing import capacity? I come to my last question and to the legal solution for ENGIE Electrabel to compensate consumers. I would prefer that consumers benefit directly from the reduction in VAT and that you seek the money through an approach with Electrabel. Did you mobilise a law firm? How much compensation will ENGIE Electrabel have to pay to Belgian consumers? Will it be possible to dispose of the work of the CREG that you have requested on this subject? How soon will consumers receive this compensation? By what legal means will you control ENGIE Electrabel? If possible, Madam Minister, I would also like a copy of the written agreement with Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now give the floor to Mr Nollet for his inquiry and his three questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u13	Mr President, I have tabled an inquiry and two questions, not three questions on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u14	In point 2, three questions have been raised, namely, questions Nos 27139, 27142 and 27143.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u15	Mr President, on the agenda I printed this morning, question No 27143 was not included in item 2 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u16	The agenda was changed at noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u17	Mr President, you have decided to deal with several points in one and the same debate, and that is your right, even if I regret it. Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to have an up-to-date picture of the risk of shortages, both on the consumption side and both on the production side and on the production side and on the production side. Since Elia's auditions, you have certainly already, and probably on many occasions, had contact with her. You therefore have updated figures. I ask you before this committee to clarify the situation today. When the press questions the Prime Minister, he says that it is better, that we strengthen our position every day. I have read information that says the opposite or in which some people wonder about this rather radical position. There are problems with gas-fired power stations, with the 200 MW of generators. It is also known that demand management is not as obvious as one might have thought. In short, I would ask you to clarify the state of consumption, production and the delta between the two. I ask you to be precise not only for the month of November, but also for the months of January and February, as stipulated in my written question. Why? Because when Elia's representatives were heard in committee, they drew our attention to the fact that the risk was greater in those months than in November. My written question was about the first three months of 2019. That's for the first part of my questions. The second part relates to the explosion of the electricity bill and the energy bill. In particular, my question is about the status of the CREG in its assessment of the famous delta that the Prime Minister has already spoken of in plenary and which you have already mentioned, I believe. This is not about the gas part, nor about the CO2 part, but about the work part of the CREG. Did the latter identify this delta? Are we already aware of what will be reimbursed to consumers in one way or another? Second dimension in this question, by what mechanism will you allow the consumer to recover this amount so that he does not have to play the bank? It is not logical for the consumer to serve as a banker to Electrabel who has to pay back. It may be necessary for the State to intervene to cover the difference. I read in L'Echo the various legal channels that your administration was considering. I see that there are difficulties for each of them. What legal path are you going to take? We're getting closer to November 1 and it would be good if things were clear. The Prime Minister's commitment must be translated into concrete terms: consumers will not pay Electrabel's bill. I come to my more specific question relating to the power plants in Vilvorde and Rodenhuize. Le Soir newspaper of September 29, 2018 echoes the fact that there is an obstacle to your wish to requisition the Vilvorde gas power plant. The plant's environmental permit allows it to run only 500 hours a year, a little more than 20 days. Minister, what's the status of the case? Have you ever asked the Flemish government about this? The same newspaper referred to the problem of the supply of the Rodenhuize biomass plant, which would be in need of pellets because the supply ship is blocked in the United States. The legislative framework does not allow the operator to use Belgian pellets. What's the status of this case? Do you keep this track in calculating the risk of shortage? I assume that this is the way in which you put this question to the state of need and supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u18	Madam Minister, the previous speakers have already explained the situation very well. I shall therefore drop the introduction to my question. We've already had a hearing here with Elia. The hearing showed that there is still a problem in the order of 700 to 900 megawatts in order to maintain security of supply throughout the winter. That calculation already took into account the 750 megawatts you announced. The shift in maintenance of Tihange 1 has also been taken into account. I have prepared this question in response to media reports that the announced additional capacity of 750 megawatts would be highly uncertain. For example, permits for the installation of diesel generators have not yet been requested. As a result, these generators could be unavailable in the month of November. There would also be no agreements with an aggregator such as Actility to enable companies willing to reduce their consumption at peak moments at a fee. This too would not have made much progress. I therefore have a number of questions. I would have liked to know exactly what's going on with the 750 megawatts you announced. Will that capacity be fully available at the beginning of November? Can you give us an update? What steps have you taken and what assurances do you have in the meantime? Can you also explain why applications have not yet been submitted for a permit to install diesel generators? Has that even happened in the meantime? There would also be no concrete agreements with an aggregator such as Actility. Maybe that's happened by now. I would have liked to know what the situation is there. Why haven't agreements been made yet? If agreements have been made in the meantime, what is the result? For November, the French network operator confirmed that electricity might still be available for our market, up to more than 1 000 megawatts. The Prime Minister also announced in his policy statement that Germany would help our country. Could you also give us a brief update on this? What's the deal? What capacity are we sure of and until when can we be sure? Does that also apply in cold weather? Does that only apply to the month of November? Of course, we must not limit ourselves to November, because we may have problems in January and February as well. The Task Force also examines the possibility of returning one of the nuclear entities whose unavailability was extended beyond winter to the grid in full safety from January onwards. Can you tell me what the situation is there? Will that be possible? If so, for which reactor? Then we still need an additional capacity of 700 to 900 megawatts. We would get help for that from France and Germany. Yesterday I heard from the media that you signed a contract with Germany. I would have liked to know exactly what it says, how that can help us and how certain we can be. Finally, I share the concern about the invoice for our consumers and for our companies. Surely it is not possible for them to suffer from the unavailability of our security of supply? I also share the Prime Minister's view that everything needs to be recovered from ENGIE. There would be an investigation into the possible additional price, and one would try to recover it from ENGIE. What steps have been taken in this respect? Is there any idea how much extra costs will be in the coming weeks and months? And above all, how will we recover it from ENGIE? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u19	Madam Minister, as it was not entirely clear at the beginning of this session whether the interplay was directed at you or to me, depending on what I heard from Mrs Lalieux, I shall briefly address the issue. You will be free to respond later, but I will reply first and foremost to Mrs Lalieux. Also in the version of the PS, 5 000 megawatts of nuclear power stations had to operate this winter. That was in Mr Wathelet's equipment plan, which the PS approved. When you talk about nuclear and price levels, Mrs Lalieux, I have to go back to an excellent report that you signed at the time of the debate on the extension of Tihange 1. You said at the time: we will extend Tihange because it is good for the energy transition and for security of supply, and because it is essential to maintain a reasonable price level of electricity for consumers and businesses. You can check that yourself. Perhaps a few things have changed in your head since then. Madam Minister, many things have been said today. It is indeed important that we move forward in terms of prices and security of supply. That is why we are asking you a number of questions about the state of play today. First of all, what assets have been contracted in the meantime? In the meantime, have any additional items been found? What's the status there? Secondly, I have already referred in this committee to the increased use of Coo's hydroelectric power plant. I am now told from different quarters that this is indeed possible, provided that the price differences are large enough. Are you prepared to record this with ENGIE? Thirdly, Mrs Dierick has already referred to demand management. There is an offer of, among other things, REstore and Actility, and such more. They indicate that there are some concrete bottlenecks. One could, for example, no longer participate in these reserves on 1 November; this could only be done later. This could cause a number of problems. It is the pre-qualification conditions that prevent this. If I'm properly informed, that auction will take place tomorrow. If we want to have pieces in it, this must be done now. We also legally regulated the activation fee a long time ago. However, it would only apply from 1 December. This may mean that from 1 November a number of things will not be possible and that we will miss a number of much-needed megawatts. In terms of penalties, too, it seems that, if certain companies want to play in the story, they will be punished for doing so. This was, of course, written at the time in view of the fact that no strategic reserve was needed at all and such measures were not on the agenda, but today we are in a different context. It therefore seems to me to be a priority to see how we can deal with this and resolve it. My colleague Dierick has already mentioned the diesel generators. I will not repeat this. One last point that I think is important is the Vilvoorde power station. We can see on the ENGIE transparency website that it will run only on weekdays, between 06h 00 and 22h 00. Consumption outside this period is much lower, so that does not seem to me to be a problem. However, that power station will not run on the weekends and then I wonder if this is justified. It is expected that there will be enough power during the weekends, so that the power station does not have to run? I look forward very much to your answers in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer your many questions, with the aim, as Mr Wollants has pointed out, of taking stock of the precise and concrete state of play of our situation in terms of production parks, consumption needs and security of supply. I remind you that the Task Force is composed of members of the Prime Minister's Office and of mine, the Energy Administration, the CREG and the TSO. Each operator is invited only for the points that concern him or her. Thus, everything concerning the institution is dealt with between institutions and everything concerning the markets is meant on an ad hoc basis to expose and exchange in relation to the supply in order to aggregate production capacity for entry into the winter. As far as the current situation is concerned, this is still 750 MW of production capacity. As you know, the Vilvorde plant should return to the market on 22 October, subject to compliance with the conditions specified in its tolling contract with ENGIE. The Vilvorde unit has the required permits. A constraint is possible - but is still being discussed with the Flemish authorities: raising the operating limit of the plant, which, as part of its regional environmental permit, could only operate 500 hours a year. This does not pose a short-term problem since 500 hours in November-December 2018 and 500 hours in January-February 2019 represent a significant amount of energy. However, we would like more hours of operation. We therefore very quickly asked the Flemish Region to study the possibilities of increasing the production capacity of this plant by adapting the legislation. However, these are regional subjects which form part of the competences of the Regions. In this context, the Regions are of the opinion that it is necessary to find as quickly as possible the most appropriate decretal regulation to remove obstacles to any introduction into their territory of additional production capacity. This also applies to generators. They will be installed at nuclear sites, both in the North and in the South of the country. One of you mentioned their production period, which he knew. Very honestly, I will inquire but I do not have sufficient specific technical knowledge to tell you what these generators are able to produce, and when according to their capacity and/or an environmental permit that would limit these moments of production. Having made contact with both the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region, every effort is made to ensure the rapid adoption of decretal regulations, in order to remove the obstacles which would prevent the functioning of these units on the territory of each other. That's for Vilvorde. Here we are talking about generators, and the optimization of the power of ENGIE's fleet. Depending on how the machines can be used, optimisation will make it possible to earn an additional 100 MW. I'm going to demand management. I heard Mrs. Dierick or Mr. Wollants talking about activity. Demand management is represented by project promoters in this area. They had already attempted, in their time, to participate in the strategic reserve. Some of them had succeeded. These project promoters exist, with their demand economy capabilities. They can work in the market as your Parliament voted in July 2017 to allow them to work within the market, and therefore to develop their demand management capabilities directly in the market. This is done, since the framework allows it legally, but the question of price and the type or profile of products they offer remain. We can go deeper, if you want. What I know today from a technical point of view is that the activation capacity of this demand management works this way: the greater the capacity or speed of activation, the more efficient the product is. The activation time required depending on the product differences offered obviously varies the price, the quality being different. All these negotiations take place between and within market operators. Several operators are possible on the market. To the limit that any operator contracts for demand management: as long as it exists in the market at the entrance of winter for the power it says to offer, you and I are satisfied. We also have ENGIE which has, with its customers, a potential reduction in consumption of the order of 80 MWh by the end of 2018 and an additional 50 MWh by the beginning of 2019. This is in addition to the demand management we already knew, as offered by the various managers of these energy savings aggregation companies. I talked about additional productions through the example of generators. But there are also small complementary gas units. Very proactive contacts were made by ENGIE, with the regional authorities, to obtain the necessary permits. So not only do I speak to my colleagues, but the applicant himself too, which is very logical. Royal decrees are being prepared to allow the use of the units of Awirs, Langerlo and Drogenbos. If some are interested, I can also give them the planned timetable because I don't have it in mind. As I have explained, we are using the possibilities of the electricity law so that with this regulatory instrument of the royal decree, we will ensure that these units are usable. In addition to these 750 MW, I am in discussion with EDF Luminus, which ensures that I can optimize the operation of its fleet. This would make it possible to earn an additional 40 MW. The Seraing power station restarted this Monday, 15 October, thanks to the royal decree already taken. We are also under discussion with regard to the Ham plant, for 52 MW which could be used in support of the winter weather. Note also that CREG and Elia are thinking about how to mobilise more demand management by allowing these market players to make their flexibility available via an auction mechanism. The projections therefore go beyond the 750 MW already mentioned. The situation is much more favourable and solid than the one we had at the time of the announcement made by Electrabel on 21 September. With regard to interconnections, I have here a text that will be copied for you. He's in English, but you'll soon understand what he's doing. Intense contacts have been maintained with our neighbours and continue to be so. As you mentioned, Prime Minister Charles Michel has already had contacts with Chancellor Angela Merkel. As far as I am concerned, I have spoken with my counterparts, whose names I have already mentioned to you. I remind you: Mr Altmaier, whom I saw yesterday, Mr Sébastien Lecornu and Mr Eric Wiebes whom I had in telephone contact, and Mr Étienne Schneider, my Luxembourg counterpart, who spoke to me about the 200 MW Luxembourg – I will come back to that. Support and solidarity were expressed each time during these political contacts and again yesterday, in a very concrete way, by my German counterpart. Meetings at technical level are held on a regular basis between administrations as well as between network operators in order to identify all measures that can contribute to the security of supply in Belgium. I have also contacted the European Electrical Coordination Committee. In the wake of my appeals to the various French, Dutch, German and Luxembourg ministers and counterparts, I have also contacted the European Commission, which has responded directly and put in place, for the specific case of Belgium, the work of the Electric Coordination Committee, which is actively working to ensure that all the capacities and solutions that could be found converge so that the guarantee of European intervention can be received if necessary. An initial analysis shows that our neighbouring countries have sufficient production capacity to close the residual need in Belgium, knowing that, at the same time, we continue to aggregate production capacity on the territory. However, it will be necessary to ensure, at regional level, that capacity can flow to the Belgian market. That's what I did with my German counterpart. I went to meet him. We anticipated the signing of a statement of intent that we planned to sign at a later date. We took advantage of this occurrence to add a specific element in relation to the concrete and ad hoc situation of our country during this winter. You will see that in this document we are referring – and I would like to stress this – in the chapter Interconnections, to the fact that the Pentalateral Energy Forum, bringing together the Benelux countries with France, Germany and the observer countries Italy and Switzerland, is already working – and that is its raison d'être – on the creation of all the technical and political means to ensure that electricity supplies the territory of the countries forming the Pentalateral Forum. In this pentalateral forum, we created a group on electric rarity, the Standing group on Electricity Scarcity. This group met for the first time on 8 October and will continue to work within this operational framework to ensure optimal use of the interconnection infrastructure and supply for this winter. Returning to Germany, I told Mr Altmaier that we had a problem of congestion at the borders. Germany is largely exporting, as it is very often in overproduction. We know that the time to transport offshore wind turbine production to the north of Germany to the south, where the industrial basin is located, is very long. This production goes through lines in Holland, Belgium, France and then back to southern Germany. On the basis of physical and technical principles, this energy is circulating and there are frequently electrical congestions at the borders, which prevent our country from receiving the German capacity to which we could claim, i.e. about 2,000 MW. In the event of the use of all the solutions, including Elia's reservations and the international reservation, it is therefore really necessary for Germany to guarantee that these loop flows will not be concretely on the lines when we need capacity between 17 and 20.00. He said, "I guarantee it." I told my counterpart that loop flows generated significant increases in wholesale markets. Thus, during the winter of 2016-17, our prices were six times higher than in Germany and the Netherlands. Therefore, I asked him to accept with me that the systematic use of others to circulate the electricity he produced in his interest posed difficulties in the market and caused an increase in invoices for users who had signed a variable-cost contract. In the European solidarity regime, we believe that real dispatching should be carried out on our own territory at the appropriate time when we call on our neighbours to avoid congestion at the borders, while benefiting from electricity capacity at the same time as interconnection with them. He guaranteed it to me and committed himself to it by the document that you will read about. Once you have had time to review it, we will be able to discuss it at a future meeting. Of course, I will remain in close contact with my German counterpart, as we have agreed. Moreover, I was called by the European Commission on this declaration of intent. My French counterpart has just completed his Winter Plan. Therefore, I will come back to him for an assessment of his country's capacity to help us. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, we had already concluded a memorandum of understanding. Historically and technically speaking, our contacts are already very old. As usual, we will be supplied in sufficient quantity. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg indicated that it could offer 200 MW. I asked the question because it seems that a technical problem does not make it possible to dispose of these 200 MW. The fact is that these 200 MW are actually a residual capacity that would come from Germany. Physical principles make it impossible for these 200 MW to come to us in an additional way, because the current is not moving in the right direction. Only Elias can explain this to you. That's what Mr. Chris Peeters d'Elia explained to me yesterday on the plane when I asked him the question. I told him that my German counterpart had also told me about the 200 MW, and that I would have liked to know whether it was possible or not, since the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg had offered them to us. It seems that technical-physical principles are opposed to this ability coming to us. In reality, it does not come from their home but already comes from Germany. It is therefore, in some way, included in the interconnection capacity which comes directly from Germany. I come to the opinions that Elia must continue to give and the estimates that she must make. You know that, since you have had a commission in this area. Elia makes probability calculations every year. We enter in winter now and I guess some of you are affiliated with the "Elia 4cast" app. On this one, you see the situation. Elia has entered the operational phase of winter and will make a daily forecast for the next seven days. Elia will publish this forecast daily. Indeed, it is beautiful, and I don't know if everyone is happy, but in any case, everyone is certainly happy that it is beautiful. It is certain that "operational phase" means in practice that Elia evaluates the situation on a day-to-day basis in a concrete way. It checks the height of the interconnections, the temperature, the capacity of our production fleet, the demand for consumption. This operational and concrete phase will take place all winter. It will be the fundamental element that will give a concrete picture of our needs, and of our ability to cover them or not. The biomass vessel concerns the issue of pellets. As a result of the damage caused by Hurricane Florence to its pellet loading port in the United States, one of the main suppliers of Electrabel was forced to mention a situation of force majeure on certain cargoes. The consequences of this event are managed in a very proactive manner by the Electrabel teams with the supplier in question, as well as other potential suppliers, and in order to ensure the maximum availability of the Rodenhuize power plant during the next winter. All these concrete measures form the state of affairs that you have asked for. We are therefore guaranteed, in the operational and practical way that Elia assesses the situation, until December. For the short-term future, we do indeed still have to guarantee January and February. We continue to work, as I have already told you, but I do not yet have anything concrete enough here to explain it to you, but I will return regularly to you. It is certain that Electrabel continues to work to optimize the maintenance timing that has been a problem. The famous robots that must evaluate the four elbows of Doel 1 and Doel 2 are at work for the moment since the operation must take place between 15 and 31 October. We will have more news on this. As far as the other nuclear power plants are concerned, at least those which might have a different maintenance timing which would make them come back in our electricity mix, we still have to continue working and tell you more when I have concrete elements. With regard to your question about the OFF ON campaign, I have consulted my colleague Kris Peeters, who believes that it is premature for the time being. First of all, the energy-saving elements and all the gestures recommended during the winter are always visible. I also plead with my colleague that this campaign should be seen as a general campaign and not linked to one-off or recurring events. It should come into practice and be up to date at any time. It should therefore be presented as a comprehensive awareness-raising campaign on energy saving that we must do every day. This is quite possible and timely and we must probably continue to work on it. Mr President, I have answered a number of questions. Are there any questions I would not have answered? Ah yes: VAT and the principles of accountability. We've already talked about it enough, even though I know you like to hear me say it. You also heard the Prime Minister say it in plenary last week when he responded to you in his capacity as head of government. I understand your concern to ensure that the consumer's bill, in any case as regards the portion which is specifically due to the current situation, is taken over by the author and the person responsible for this situation. It is also our wish. First, we commissioned a law firm to study the principles of ENGIE's accountability in this particular context. I believe that I have already mentioned in plenary session the principles that could guide the reflection – although as principles: I am not mandated to study the feasibility of these principles legally. It is through this study that we will see the feasibility and that we will arrive at a mechanism to recover this surplus. You have also asked questions about how to assess the one-time price increase we are talking about, which is the order of this responsibility: we will call it "damage". I confirm to you, if necessary, that the government always intends – since it acts accordingly – to have the consumer's bill paid for the shortage in the Belgian market due to the unavailability of its nuclear power plants to the author of this situation. It appears from a confidential report, since I asked CREG to assess this impact on electricity prices, that the impact depends in particular on the length of time these prices will be recorded and that it cannot immediately answer the question of the magnitude of the impact. I will, of course, regularly re-examine CREG because it is like saying that we have to wait until we get out of the winter to know what the situation is, overall, over the year. Why? Because consumption is not the same throughout a year, especially with regard to fixed contracts, there is more and less and we have to see what is happening at the price level. I will therefore regularly re-examine the CREG in the coming days and weeks on this subject and I will ask it to update its study regularly. That's all I can do. This is a confidential study and I have no doubt that you would like to get it, but I can't give it to you. I'd like you to ask for it directly from CREG. She will appreciate the elements of the study that she can communicate to you, as she has already done in other files, based on her obligations to keep a certain degree of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u21	Mr President, if I understand the minister correctly, there are still major problems in terms of the megawatts to be found. These problems are not all dependent on the federal government, but they are the result of a lack of anticipation at this level. If you had anticipated the reactor work, we wouldn't be here, minister. The return of the plant to Vilvorde gas, which could fill a 500-hour electricity deficit per year, is a risk. Flanders would have to act quickly, but we know how long it takes to complete a decree with passage of the text to the Council of State. The same applies to generators which could only function with regional decrees. They are therefore not guaranteed for this winter that is at our doorstep, if the seasons continue. As far as Germany is concerned, I have not yet been able to decode the whole text you have given us, Madam Minister, but we have gone to the last page and, if I understand correctly, there is not really any concrete element about the German guarantee. She tells us that she will do everything she can to guarantee a supply and help us. We don't really know what "do everything we can to help" means in terms of megawatts and timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u22	It's a steering wheel for 2000 MW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u23	It is a steering wheel, but it is not stipulated 2000 MW. Are they guaranteed? If there are 2000 MW, indeed, everything is guaranteed and let's not think!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u24	This is the intervention of Germany. I want to tell you I didn't move for nothing. I had before me a minister of energy who I asked very detailed questions, and to whom I said I needed this guarantee. He said it at a press conference. You can read all this in the press, and also in the German press, as you will see. But it is obvious that he has committed himself to providing capabilities in case we need them. Mrs Lalieux, you know that interconnection is never guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u25	That's right, Madam Minister. I'm finishing my line. I didn't interrupt you. As you say, interconnection is never guaranteed. You said Elias was now calculating seven days to seven days. Will Elia be able to take these 2000 MW into account in its calculation model in the future? No, because interconnection is never guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u26	I can answer you. You'll question Elia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u27	It's solidarity. We will see how far solidarity can go...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u28	Wait. Can I specify? Maybe you don't want to?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u29	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u30	Thank you. First, what is not guaranteed in interconnections - and I will repeat it, as it is clear - is that sometimes the country needs its energy. I do not believe that this is the case in Germany. I can tell you they're not here at all. They have energy, as in the Netherlands. It's not the problem of having energy or not. It's the problem of getting her home. It's a redispatching problem at home. The second element is that Elia's accompanying representative, Mr. Chris Peeters, told me that he was really happy to have this guarantee, which makes him feel much more comfortable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u31	Will they take this into account in their calculations? I would be reassured if there was no guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u32	I can't answer you. I fully agree with you. These are their calculations, since we are now in the operational phase. I don't know the springs of their calculations. In fact, several questions about the sources of these calculations will be asked this afternoon. I can ask Elia the question, or you can ask Elia directly, but I can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u33	We'll see if Elia takes this into account in her calculations. Then we will be reassured. I hope that Germany has not offered the same guarantee to France in the event of a problem of energy resources this winter. Otherwise, there will be complexity compared to 2,000 MW. I'm going to interview Mr. Peeters about the OFF ON campaign. I agree with you, I don't understand why it's not launched. It is not to scare people, it is to make them realize that electricity is a precious asset and that it is better to use it as little as possible. As far as Electrabel is concerned, I still do not agree with the reasoning about his responsibility. We have not had a timing and, in the meantime, the citizen will continue to pay. This is what bothers me: the citizen who has difficulties will have to take out the money, with a hypothetical refund. The CREG tells us that we must wait for the winter months – and perhaps the year – and I fear that these citizens will be reimbursed for the Greek calends. I don't accept it. The state could act and I will continue to demand it! There is no timing, there is no legal guarantee, there is nothing for the citizen to find his balls in the face of the increase in electricity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u34	You're absolutely right. As far as liability is concerned, it is all damage and nothing but damage. So we have to evaluate, there is nothing to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u35	I agree, but that the state should take responsibility for this and reduce VAT so that the citizens are not the turkeys of the farce! The citizen must not pay for the improvisation of the government with regard to security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answers. You recalled some principles and dimensions on which you are working to try to address the shortage problem. I hear your conclusion for the month of November that there will be no problem. I hear above all that for the months of January, February and March there is no clarity, no visibility! To be even more precise, we need figures on the difference between production and consumption envisaged. You told me about principles; for my part, I asked for figures. When I interviewed Elia, she told me she was working for you. When I ask you the same question, you tell me to address Elia. That's a problem. Mr President, I would like to address you to ensure that, through the minister – since Elia is not dependent on Parliament, unlike other institutions – we receive the state of affairs recently transmitted by Elia to the minister. In this way, we will also be able to learn about the situation, including the gap identified for the first three months of next year. We know you're still working on it, minister. We also read in the press that you would not leave the government until the problem was resolved. It's your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u38	That's right. We're helping you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u39	We are working well, indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u40	Thank you. In any case, we would like to know what is happening in the months concerned. Your vague answer does not reassure us in any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u41	You asked for exact figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u42	I ask you to send them to me for the end of the week or the beginning of next week, even if we know that you will regularly update this state of affairs. It's normal: it's your job. I look forward to the first few months of 2019, as I agree with you that a lot of uncertainty persists in this case. The same applies to the reimbursement of the consumer. The commitment has been made by the Prime Minister – it's serious – but allow me to remain dubious about the concrete modalities for the citizen, especially in terms of the legal path, in view of your current response. Finally, you rightly pointed out that CREG was an institution that depended on Parliament. So we're more comfortable than with Elia. That is why I ask the chairman of the committee to take the necessary steps to receive a document from the CREG. We have already received notes from the latter, which were sometimes baffled at times public. We have been able to consult such documents in a dedicated room. We ask that such an initiative be taken by the President, in response to what the Minister has suggested to us. It is easier to do so vis-à-vis the CREG; it is up to us to do so. In front of Elias, it's up to the minister to do it. That is why I distinguished these two elements well in my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u43	We're going to apply to CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which I will read again in the report. I have looked into the document you have distributed and I think it is important to clarify the specific measures that are envisaged. These are not in this document, because it refers to the "agreed specific measures" and the "operational framework for solidarity to ensure electricity at the (...) in Belgium for the winter." I therefore believe that it is important to get those documents because they refer to the specific measures agreed here. I understand that not all the documents are ready yet, within the pentalateral forum. It would be good if the committee received these documents as soon as they were finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u45	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Karine Lalieux and the response of the Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, asks the government - to reduce VAT on electricity to 6 %; - to introduce an immediate freeze on electricity prices; - to introduce controls on electricity and gas prices so that suppliers do not unduly increase electricity and gas prices once the price freeze is lifted. To do so, the "safety net" will be restored; -to review the consumer protection agreement to force suppliers to convert dormant products (which are often the most expensive contracts) into active contracts at the end of the contract; - facilitate access to the social electricity and gas tariff so that all persons in precarious situations can benefit from it; - to encourage responsible consumption by correctly informing the population about the risk of shortages and by activating the OFF ON campaign." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Karine Lalieux and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Karine Lalieux and the reply of the Minister for Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, asks the government - to reduce VAT on electricity to 6%; - immediately freeze electricity prices, - to establish a control of electricity and gas prices in order to prevent suppliers from unduly increasing electricity and gas prices when the price freeze is lifted. To this end, the energy price safety net mechanism will be re-established; - revise the consumer protection agreement to oblige suppliers to convert dormant products (often the most expensive contracts) into active contracts when the contract expires; - facilitate access to the social tariff for electricity and/or natural gas to ensure that all persons living in poverty are eligible, - promote responsible energy consumption by informing the public about the potential power shortage and by activating the OFF ON campaign." A simple motion was tabled by Ms.Leen Dierick and Messrs. Benoît Friart and Bert Wollants. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Bert Wollants. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u46	At the October 2 commission, Electrabel refuted your line of defense, which is to say that it was suddenly, on September 21, that you discovered the risk of shortage. In his speech, Mr Saegeman strongly stressed that Doel 3's restart had been postponed five times and that it was therefore not surprising that Tihange 2 and 3's restarts had also been postponed. According to him, you could have anticipated it as early as June. Do you share this view? If not, what steps did you take or what consolidated and updated information before September 21st did you have to ensure that Tihange 3 would restart on September 30th as initially announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u47	Mr President, I would first like to make a comment and ask Mr Nollet a question before answering him. Question 27205, dated 11 October, is almost identical. Can't we globalize the answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u48	It's weird because sometimes you group things that don't necessarily have to see between them and...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u49	Yes, I agree, but it's because I worked on the answers before I came here and it's because I know I'm asking you the question myself. If you prefer, I can answer twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u50	If both questions are included, I will indeed complete my question. Mr. Chairman, is that okay with the secretariat? All right. Minister, have you had an answer from ENGIE to the following fundamental question: what new information did the operator have to decide to postpone the planned start-up date of its Tihange 3 reactor on 21 September by several months, that is, only 9 days before the expiry of the previously announced start-up date? What information not available on September 20 (and so before) changed the situation this famous September 21? I assume that since the outbreak of the crisis you have put this question to ENGIE Electrabel, but if that is not the case, I have invited you, through my question tabled a few days ago, to do so in the context of this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u51	Mr. Member, thank you. First of all, the statements made by ENGIE representatives in committee, by Elia and by CREG only call into question those responsible for them. So I have no particular comment to make on their subjects. I have already explained to you on many occasions, in previous committees and perhaps even in plenary last week, what this is from the point of view of Electrabel in relation to that of the Belgian State and the Government on this issue of anticipation. The Belgian Government considers that ENGIE Electrabel did not adequately anticipate the repair of concretes whose condition had been known for a long time. If it weren't, it would be serious. For I do not think that such thicknesses of concrete disintegrate at this point in a few weeks of time or certainly in a year. You know, something I hate, anonymous testimony came to confirm this fact. The operator therefore communicates the information to the market and it is all the communication of the information to the market - which you have already said (I think I remember this) that probably it would be necessary to reshape the way things are going. But basically, if we are to be able to identify developments from this, we need to know how this works. It is the content of my answer to your second question that refers to market information and the REMIT Regulation. The update of the unavailability date and capacity not available, for market information under the REMIT Regulations, was as follows. For Tihange 2: via a numbered message, at 11:48 a.m., on 21 September 2018, it is indicated (so ENGIE) the extension of the end date of unavailability to 31 May 2019 at 11:59 p.m., which replaces the previous message from 13 August 2018 at 13:48 p.m. For Tihange 3: via another numbered and specific message, at 11:47 a.m., on September 21, 2018, we see that it follows in time, which indicates the extension of the end date of unavailability to March 1, 2019, at 11:59 p.m., and which replaced the previous message from June 15, 2018 at 4:02 p.m. I'll come back to the REMIT rule. On 28 December 2011, Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market entered into force throughout the European Union and is directly applicable in order to create a legislative framework for the transparency of energy markets in Europe. The aim is to provide a European regulatory framework specific to the wholesale market in order to improve its functioning by preventing and, where appropriate, punishing abuses. The aim is therefore to avoid any behaviour leading to unfair competition that undermines the legitimate expectations of energy market participants. In this way, price fixing on the wholesale market should be based on a correct interaction between supply and demand. As a reminder, this Regulation lays down the following provisions: prohibition of insider trading, prohibition of market manipulation or manipulation attempts, obligation for market participants to publish insider trading information, obligation to notify by means of a platform to the Association of European Regulators (ASER) and to the national regulatory authority in the event of an exemption to REMIT linked to a transaction allowing compliance with existing contractual obligations or which is made with the agreement of the network operators concerned in order to ensure the safe and reliable functioning of the network and linked to a delayed public disclosure of the insider trading information. I continue with the obligations of this regulation to operators: persons organising transactions in a professional capacity must provide for effective provisions to detect infringements of these prohibitions and to notify the CREG of possible breaches. National regulatory authorities must notify the ASER in the event of reasonable grounds for suspicion of an infringement of REMIT taking place in its territory or in another Member State. In short, under this regulation, operators should not commit insider dealing, manipulate the market. Under Article 2, privileged information is information of a specific nature which has not been made public, which concerns, directly or indirectly, one or more wholesale energy products and which, if made public, would be likely to significantly influence the prices of such wholesale energy products. At the level of publication, the requirements in terms of container and content are defined. Any publication of privileged information that is incomplete or incorrect is considered to be non-effective and therefore constitutes a breach of the REMIT rules. The European regulators have published a guidance for the interpretation of REMIT, which can be consulted. The CREG can of course answer questions on this subject. To get back to your question, on 21 September 2018, after publishing to the markets, ENGIE Electrabel provided me with the information that she herself published via Belga, immediately after. I quote: "As discussed, we have just adapted, through our Transparency website, the shutdown time of the Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 power plants. I am sending an attachment to the press release sent to Belga a few minutes ago. These two units are in a planned stop and face different degradations of the concrete of the bunker of the ultimate rescue building. The analyses are under way in order to make a correct diagnosis before starting the repair work. Based on the elements of the diagnosis, we decided to change the schedule. Tihange 1: revision scheduled until March 2, 2019, against September 30 (plus five months). Tihange 2, revision scheduled until June 1, 2019, compared to October 31 (plus 7 months). The shutdown schedule of the other units remains unchanged." The Belga communiqué stated: "These recovery dates remain only the best estimates given the information known so far", warning in advance that they could be modified according to the optimizations of the planning, the result of future inspections, the progress of the work and the injunctions of the authorities. It is precisely within this framework that we are working to optimise the possible return - I am cautious - of units in the winter run-off. For specific items on this date, related to diagnostics of safety-related components and structures, you must ask questions to the AFCN, as you did, or even directly to the private operator. You had the opportunity to do so, since you mentioned Mr. Saegeman. That is why I asked you to consolidate the two questions. That's, strictly, strictly, what happened, with the timing. I didn't get any more information before that. With regard to known information, which ENGIE probably insists on, it is clear that the Federal Nuclear Control Agency cannot ignore the situation. It is one of the players who cannot ignore the condition of concretes, like the operator himself. Until proven otherwise – I heard that earlier – it is not the government that produces electricity. He's not the owner of the power plants. It was also not he who planned in his 2019 budget – it is now up to me, Mrs.Lalieux – amounts to assume the support for gas-fired power plants. Support for gas-fired power plants is a proper support through the consumer and a choice formed by public procurement and competition from investors wishing to build gas-fired power plants in our country. It remains fluctuating according to electricity prices, which is why it is currently being examined by the European Commission, which has asked us several questions, which we are currently answering. We asked him to act very quickly so that this text – duly corrected by her – could be re-read again and submitted to the Council of State and, finally, to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u52	Minister, I have followed all your explanations, which reminded us of the functioning of the market and what information is needed. All this is known, but it is always useful to remind him. You loaded ENGIE by pointing out that it was abnormal that she warned you so late and that she had to know the condition of the concrete. You also loaded the AFCN for the same reason. All right. However, you have still not answered me about the information that ENGIE did not have on the 20th and that it only received on the 21st.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u53	I repeat, they made their announcement on the 21st.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u54	On what basis? That is what I would like to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u55	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u56	Ask them the question, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u57	For you, I would like to put the question to ENGIE, which you have had an extensive opportunity to question in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u58	I indicated this in my question, stating that these representatives had not answered me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u59	I would like to speak to ENGIE and see what they say to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u60	Mr. Chairman, the minister would like to ask the question, as I asked in my question. I accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u61	Not just now. I always wanted to, but you had an audition with ENGIE. You are telling me today that his representatives have not answered you. There you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u62	My question was written after the ENGIE hearing, as she had not answered me. I ask you explicitly to contact her for this purpose. You're telling me you didn't do it, and you're going to do it now. I regret that you have not done so; I take note of your commitment to do so. I therefore ask you to send us the answer as soon as possible, whether through the President or the Secretariat. In this way, we won't have to wait a month before we get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u63	That is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u64	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u65	It's perfect. The message's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u66	Madam Minister, during the debates in the Committee on Economy, CREG strongly criticized Elia's lack of transparency with regard to the assumptions used in her model for forecasting shortages, particularly at the level of imports. What do you have or what are you going to give as an injunction to Elia so that all transparency is made? What is your guideline in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u67	Madam Minister, we have witnessed here, with the presence of Elia and CREG, a debate on security of supply and how it is assessed, particularly at the level of interconnections. The regulator thus requested access to the Elias calculation model, which was refused by the OCE of the TSO (transmission system manager). Minister, are you aware of this conflict between CREG and Elia? How is it that CREG cannot have all the information that the TSO uses to assess security of supply? For its part, does DG Energy have access to the Elias calculation model? If not, how is it possible for the regulator and the administration to be deprived of the means necessary to carry out their tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u68	I actually know about these reluctances since I lived them live in the task force, it's as simple as that. I then said that it was appropriate to communicate to CREG and to my administration the elements that allow these two institutions to take a look at how the data used in Elia's analyses are calculated. As a result, my administration and CREG jointly sent a letter to Elia requesting access by mid-November to the model used by Elia, as well as to all the data used in the analyses, together with their security of supply simulation model. Then, during another task force, I invited the parties to reach agreement on this. And if I do not agree, I will have to legislate because I do not have the legal means to impose the transmission of these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u69	Mr President, we therefore have an appointment on 15 November to take stock of the transmission of information and the possible amendment of the legislation. This point refers to a more comprehensive question that I will ask about the lessons to be learned about the minister's ability to intervene at the right time and in the right places to ensure that every effort is made to reduce, if not avoid, the risk of shortages. This concerns the regulatory system as a whole and we will have the opportunity to come back to it as I have already discussed it with your collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u70	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we are in a surreal situation. I am not saying that you are responsible, but it would be important to legislate so that three institutions that are essential for the management of this country and security of supply can share data.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u71	I feel like they can come up with a deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u72	I hope so because I think it is mainly Elia who blocks the situation as she did four years ago when there were security of supply problems. It is not possible to continue in this way. The government should give a clear signal to Elia's CEO and our directors in this company. It is necessary to put an end to this little game of wanting to be the only one to possess clear and correct information. By doing so, they weaken you because your administration and the regulator do not have the ability to inform you properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u73	Minister, why haven't you re-launched this ON OFF campaign yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u74	Mr Nollet, I answered Mrs Lalieux earlier. Do you want me to repeat what I told him?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u75	I heard the elements of the answer, but as in my reply, I did not address these elements and as you did not attach this point, I reserved it to myself knowing that I still had my question. I'll try to be very brief. Maybe others had to launch this campaign, but why didn't you intervene to get it launched? It is a fundamental element in two ways. First, it leads you to be able to cope with the risk of shortages. Secondly, it makes citizens aware of the energy savings which, in any case, are good to take, including for them. I don't understand. Is it because the 2014 evaluation is such that it was not worth it? Or is it because – and this is more vicious – you (or others) did not want the consumer to be aware of the seriousness of the situation? If that's the case, I think it's a very bad calculation because the media talked about it. It is their job to do so when there are problems with climate change, and the Prime Minister does not mind. I believe that here you have missed the positive part of the communication, namely the possible mobilization of citizens to help you solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u76	Mr. President, we asked the question. I am simply saying that Mr Peeters is wrong not to want to launch this campaign. I will ask her a question because the minister said she would like to relaunch this campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u77	I join everything you say and share it spontaneously. It's always good at all times and not only in winter, knowing that every year the winter comes back sooner or later. This year, it's later. However, I am co-competent with Kris Peeters who finds it premature. That's it! Initially, this OFF ON campaign had been launched in a very special context that you know and that was on top of both legislatures: in August 2014 and all winter 2014-15, it was about raising awareness of demand management. Demand management is not identical to energy sobriety. In practical terms, it is the same in substance, but it was not presented in this way, in any case at that time. Instead of being a choice, it was rather a constraint. We told people that they had to make efforts to save megawatts, in the event that, within a week, based on Elia's concrete assessment every seven days, a risk of shortage would force us to reduce demand to balance the network. It's different to tell people that it's good for everything and that the best energy is the energy you don't consume. It's good for bills, and good for the fight against global warming, etc. I agree with all of this. Mrs. Lalieux is going to ask Kris Peeters a question and she's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u78	Read what was said at the time as part of the campaign! Both dimensions were present in this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u79	I'm not saying otherwise!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u80	Why what was valid in 2014... I will reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u81	You've already started by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u82	Mr President, I want my sentences to be complete and not to be interrupted in my reply, although I very much appreciate the dialogue when it is continued beyond the reply. Why, in 2014, when both dimensions were present, but the problem was less serious than this year, was this campaign launched? Why is it not launched this year when the problem is more serious and the two dimensions still have to be present? I can't explain it to myself. You, as a minister, can say we have to launch it. You can launch it, or launch a similar campaign on your own initiative. It's not just Elia who can launch an OFF ON campaign. You too. It's even more you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u83	But no, it's not me anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u84	The SPF is you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u85	No, the SPF Economy, it's not me!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u86	Don't tell me the FPS exists without the government giving it injunctions. If the government doesn't have that capacity, then we're far away! I know you've defaced the administration, but still. I suppose you still have that power of regal. Let's move on. I come with a suggestion, minister. As part of the campaign that I invite you to launch again now, it would be possible to deploy a message in an educational and playful form. I did the math. If we have to find a gigawatt hour - the equivalent of a nuclear reactor, and not a small but a medium - this means that each Belgian household must, during the period in question, that is, from 4.30 to 7.30 p.m., save the equivalent of four to five 40 W bulbs. During the new shaping of this OFF ON campaign, citizens will be asked to take part in a test such or such day – all over the country, in the north as well as in the south and in the centre of the country. It will be a question of how our fellow citizens will react when they are invited to turn off four or five 40-watt bulbs or to interrupt the operation of the water heater, dishwasher, etc. I spoke of a playful aspect, to the extent that this operation can be made more attractive. Thus, this shortage test could be conducted on Neighbors' Day. That's a wonderful idea! If four neighbouring households gather in a single home - obviously turning off the light when they leave - they have solved the problem while feasting. You could send a beautiful and positive message. You're kidding, but that's the way people are being mobilised today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u87	Mr Nollet, I am smiling positively at this idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u88	Mr President, I would like the record to take note of the minister's positive smile, as she has just made it clear. We have made a great deal of progress. Indeed, it is this fun side of the OFF ON campaign that I invite you to deploy this year. It is possible to organize this test with the help of television channels, between 8 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. In this way, we will be able to grasp the capacity of the population to respond. You remember that at the time of the attacks, citizens responded quickly by posting pictures of cats on social media, instead of showing photos of police officers intervening. This initiative was fantastic! You can do the same with the OFF ON campaign, because Belgians are in solidarity in such situations. I say it because we consider for the moment that the Brussels people are not concerned with the discharge, but they could participate in the decrease...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u89	On a voluntary basis!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u90	Of course, minister: they do it all the time. That is solidarity between the regions! That's why you have to test it through a well-targeted campaign, which you could take the initiative of, if it's not asking your administration too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u91	I do not know if the minister wishes to comment. No? All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u92	Mr President, we should ensure that speaking time is respected, otherwise we will not get away with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u93	Mr President, Madam Minister, at our exchange of 23 May on the purchase by Elia of additional shares in 50Hertz and in view of the risk that this purchase would be passed on to the Belgian consumer's invoice, you informed us of your request for investigation on 26 April with the regulator. During our exchange on 6 June, you informed us that the CREG had received the requested documents from Elia on 22 May as well as some of the answers to the questions asked. You also stated that new questions had been asked and that additional documents had been requested. Since then, we have learned that unlike usual practice, Elia has decided to allocate new loans, the least expensive source of financing, to unregulated activities only. This is tantamount to leaving higher costs to regulated activities and therefore to the Belgian consumer. In answer to my later question no.26414, you stated to me that, I quote: "CREG gave Elia until 15 June 2018 to provide an answer to the CREG. As of 2 July 2018, CREG had still not received the requested information from Elia. In so doing, CREG informed me that it intended to initiate the administrative fine procedure against Elias because of the latter's failure to provide the requested information. The lack of information prevents the CREG from exercising this control properly and from answering this question." I came back to the charge on 18 September and you said to me: "After analysing the information provided by Elia, the CREG is of the opinion that the proposal by Elia, which is to charge for its unregulated activities the financing costs linked to the EUR 1 billion loan that Elia recently issued, would constitute a cross-subsidy between regulated and unregulated activities to the detriment of the Belgian consumer." You further stated that Elia challenged this view for her part and that a response from Elia to the latest findings and criticisms of the CREG was expected. What about it? What was the content of Elia's reply? What analysis does CREG make of this reply? Did CREG ultimately impose a fine? What is the amount of the fine? What other sanction/decision has the CREG decided? What conclusions do you draw from this file and what are you going to put in place? Can you now clearly guarantee that this buyback will have no impact on Belgian consumers' bills? What are you putting in place to avoid that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u94	Mr President, what you have mentioned exists, but, as you have pointed out, Elia contests the view of CREG and brought an action during the summer for annulment before the Court of Appeal against the provision of the tariff methodology 2020-2023 recently approved by CREG, which deals with the valuation of the financing of unregulated activities. Therefore, I am compelled to respect the separation of powers and refrain from comment pending a judgement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u95	I understand your position in relation to the problem. But you could give us information about the facts, the reply that was given, the timetable, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u96	I'm going to interview the people concerned. I believe that justice must be allowed to do its job and make a decision. After that, we will begin to analyse what has been said. Part of what is said in the meantime may not be confirmed by the ruling of the Court of Appeal, which is sovereign. If this is confirmed, it will not be of interest; if it is reversed, we will have elements that will be discussed on the periphery of the serene and impartial work that must be done by the judges. We have to let justice work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u97	I agree with you on the substance. But on the facts, can you tell us whether the administrative documents were sent? I understand that, on the merits, you were waiting for the court decision to position yourself. That's normal. On the facts, could your collaborator provide us with the information at a later date?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u98	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u99	Madam Minister, during our exchange on September 18, you informed us that you had met with ONDRAF and asked him a few questions. You were waiting for a formal response from him. Can we now receive a copy of this response? As of that date, the Board of Directors had not yet approved the costing and pricing of waste. It has been done since then, if we believe the information published in the pess. At the time, you insisted on the need for a sufficiently prudent framework, as recommended in Recommendation EU 2006/851/Euratom, and you stated that the scenario was 10 billion. It seems, however, that the ONDRAF did not follow you, holding the 8 billion scenario, while recommending to the CPN to retain the 10 billion scenario. This is not without the question of consistency of reasoning. Minister, could you clarify this point? Do you not fear the emergence of a new nuclear liability? Has ONDRAF conducted a benchmarking of costing elements? I am thinking in particular of a comparison with the evaluation carried out in Switzerland. Are you sure that ONDRAF worked on the basis of the worst box? Was it not appropriate to work the other way around and to resume, even temporarily – the time of studies – the 10 billion scenario? Are the margins of uncertainty in the 8 billion scenario greater than those in the 10 billion scenario? If so, how much? While on a deposit of the first B waste in 2035-2040 and C waste from 2080, ONDRAF has postulated these dates to 2060-2070 for B waste and 2100-2110 for C waste.Why has ONDRAF reduced the planned schedule from 20 to 30 years? It is difficult not to see this as a form of compensation linked to the re-estimation of the budget. Delaying the process for several decades also increases the risk of not having the necessary provisions at the appropriate time. What impact does this decline have on the provisions to be paid? Another dimension of the problem lies in the fact that ONDRAF is working over a period of two years while a five-year period should be retained. What justifies this change? What do you think of this change? In what sense did the representative of the FPS Economy, in his capacity as the financial manager of the federal State's nuclear liabilities, say in this regard? In addition, I have a few questions to better understand the choice made by ONDRAF. Has ONDRAF taken proper account of AFCN's request to estimate costs at depths greater than 400 metres? If not, why was a depth of 600 metres not resumed? What form of reversibility is used in cost estimates? Is this a time-limited reversibility? What is the evolution over time of the share associated with uncertainties in the costing calculation? I come to the question that was attached to the inquiry. It relates to the assessment of impacts and the organization of a public consultation. In our previous discussion on this subject on 18 September, you replied that "for the question on SEA (Strategic Environmental Assessment), the ONDRAF's answer is not very clear. It merely refers to the opinion of the SEA Committee." and that, therefore, you are looking at possible options for moving forward in accordance with the legal and regulatory framework. You confirmed that you were "of course in favour of anything that could strengthen a broad societal base, and thus the conduct of such a survey". As I said in reply, I do not think there is a need to relaunch lengthy legal studies, since the one initiated at the beginning of the process was already very clear: a new impact study was necessary and a public consultation was essential. Minister, your decision on these two elements can no longer be deferred. When will you initiate a new environmental impact and impact assessment? In what forms and according to what timetable are you going to organize the public consultation? Will each municipality be asked individually and will it have to position itself in this context? In addition, are you going or have you already submitted the National Policy Proposal to the AFCN or are you expecting the outcome of the new impact assessment and public consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u100	Mr President, honourable Member, I begin by answering the first few questions. I had the ONDRAF letter that I received from my office on October 5 for your attention. That was an answer to my letter of June 28th. It's an 11-page letter! I'll comment on it in part.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u101	You can also give us a copy, to save time. But it's what you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u102	That's right! She'll get to you, no problem. It's obvious that she deserves an analysis from you. It is likely that the answers I am going to give you now will be to complete with elements contained in this letter, which I will obviously not repeat. You say that ONDRAF did not follow me by holding the costing at 8 billion euros. I still have to contradict you slightly. The Board of Directors recorded the costing at EUR 10.7 billion. The questions I asked in my letter of June 28th will probably have led the organization to reflect. As you know, we're joining in on this. Nuclear power supplies must be sufficient, apart from having to exist and must be available when necessary. We know that. As such, the decision of the ONDRAF Board of Directors is very clear, in the absence of further calculations, it is indeed the conservative cost of EUR 10.7 billion that it recommends to the CPN for the establishment of nuclear power supplies, knowing that a provision does not yet constitute an expenditure but an anticipation of a future expenditure. As such, we will agree, caution is important. As you will read, ONDRAF has opted for a more cautious attitude. Firstly, it has committed EUR 10.7 billion, while not neglecting its own calculations on the pretext of negotiation. Secondly, ONDRAF recommends this prudent costing to the CPN for the evaluation of its provisions. Thirdly, ONDRAF continues to refine and improve its evaluation. Fourthly, this deadline for improving this assessment is limited to two years, without having to wait five more years. Fifth, the rate resulting from an optimized costing is limited to a period of two years with little or no removal. I am surprised, however, and you may also be surprised that, for 15 to 20 years, geological costing has remained at a level of 2.9 to 3.5 billion euros. Here, the conservative costing established by the ONDRAF (worst case as you said), on 18 September last, indicating to qualify it that it was not "a scenario of science fiction but of taking into account the most expensive conditions in a realistic scenario", this costing is acted upon and recommended by the ONDRAF for nuclear supplies. This is the most important and fundamental point I remember. I only own the costing of the ONDRAF. This organization will spend another two years refining it, either upwards or downwards. I believe that it is always necessary to remain conservative, but I have only this institutional information as a functional minister. I would like to raise another point on the subject of "Convention-tariff-negotiations". This is based on the opinion of the Council of State of 4 August 2009, which dealt with an amendment to the ONDRAF Act. I quote: "In the present case, Article 179 § 2.11(5) in draft provides, however, that the royalties payable by waste producers are subject to agreements, that the producers concerned conclude with ONDRAF and that the liable parties are thus offered the possibility to agree with the competent authority on the amount of the levy to be paid. Such a procedure does not reconcile with the essence of a fee. The rule in draft should be replaced by a rule assigning to ONDRAF the power to fix in each individual case the amount of the levy. This rule could then provide for general criteria or instruct the King to set them. Thus, for example, a formula could be used to calculate the amount of the levy from specific elements, without prejudice to the fact that the value of the elements to be taken into account is in each concrete case agreed between the ONDRAF and the obligor, provided that, in the absence of agreement, the ONDRAF may unilaterally determine the value of the data." I am somewhat surprised, but we know each other well, that you are resting on me today almost all the questions that I myself asked at ONDRAF last June. It was in my mail. There is a response from ONDRAF, which is why I am telling you that I will of course give you time to analyse it. Little bit of an eye, I'm going to equate the fact that you're taking over all the questions I asked to ONDRAF myself with an acknowledgement of the quality of my approach and the questions I asked. As I have already told you, ONDRAF has given me a detailed answer to these questions. You will have the opportunity to go through it and we will have the opportunity to return. Finally, you are asking me questions about the impact of this costing on nuclear power supplies. To date, I have no idea. This is not yet quantified. As I have already told you, I hope that the recommendation made by ONDRAF to the CNP will be implemented in a prudential approach. I obviously forwarded the elements to the CPN. My letter already asked ONDRAF to provide all the necessary information to the CPN for the performance of its tasks and to SYNATOM. The ONDRAF will of course take the necessary steps and inform the CPN of the decision of its board of directors. The quantification of the increase effect and the planning will actually take place at the latest in the next three-year re-evaluation of the provisions planned for 2019. That's what I already told you in May 2018 without encrypting it. I quote: "The next re-evaluation is likely to lead to a substantial increase (but you know it and you have reported it several times) following ONDRAF's assessments of the estimated costs of geological storage projects." I look forward to the CPN's reaction in this regard. As far as the SEA study is concerned, I am assessing the situation in my firm and consulting with my colleague from the Economy. I know that you are waiting for an answer but, if necessary and with my colleague, I will give the appropriate instructions and information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u103	Madam Minister, as far as the SEA component is concerned, you will admit that it has now been more than a year since I came every month or every two months with the question and that you are replying that it is under consideration in your office and in conjunction with that of Minister Peeters. I think it's time to make this clear. I do not understand why there is hesitation, when you know that I have this note, that you have the legal study that you have asked for, which states that there is no choice: an impact assessment and public consultation are required. You say you're going to think again. No, I don't! Even the ONDRAF does not refer to public consultation, because the law is very clear. The impact statement (the legal note of about 30 pages you ordered) is also clear and the conclusion is that it needs one. But you continue to hesitate and to procrastinate. I do not understand why we simply do not apply what is in the law and what the legal note asks you to do. I'll come back to the charge in two weeks and a month. Besides, you're not without knowing that I have this note. It's no secret. It's been three or four months since I announced it to you. I don't see why you, at your level, continue to procrastinate. Why is this important? Because we come at the end of the legislature (it's no secret to anyone) and at the level of the government agreement, you decided to say that under this legislature you would be clear about what would be done for this waste. But if we follow the legal note, which I am in possession of, you are obliged, before you know what you are going to do, to go through a public consultation and an impact assessment. This means that it is not this government that will decide the national policy on nuclear waste. If you'd saved time, maybe you could have been able to do it. Here, the only decision you will have at the end is to say that the next govern ment will have to consult all the municipalities in Belgium to see whether they are ready or not to accept nuclear waste and to repeat an impact assessment on this matter. It's your only solution. That's the part of the questions. As far as the inquiry is concerned, I will be able to read the answer that the ONDRAF has given you. I agree with you: it is a great recognition of the quality and relevance of the questions you have asked. I am particularly surprised by two elements. First: the recommendation to the CNP is to take 10.7 billion. Why then for two years did we work on a base of 8 billion? Why this useless gift? I don't understand it and I don't share it. You're saying we're going to re-evaluate up or down. No: the 8 billion represent everything that can be the lowest as costing! We don't know how to re-evaluate downwards, it can only be re-evaluated upwards if you read the document properly. We take all the margins, we reduce them, we take all the cheapest costs when there are uncertainties. This will necessarily only be revalued upwards. There's not even a middle man. If I were you, I would have said that there are two assumptions, one at $8 billion and one at $10.7 billion, we take the one between the two. I asked you to take the worst case scenario. Not only at 10.7 billion, but also 600 metres deep. On the 600 m question you don't answer. I'll read the ONDRAF's answer again, but you won't answer. However, AFCN recommended taking more than 400 m, not 400 m!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u104	I will ask our colleague Nollet to conclude, the time is running out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u105	I'll finish my sentence. You validate the fact that the ONDRAF only works at 400 m, while the AFCN requested more than 400 m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u106	Mr President, Madam Minister, at the end of July, the Council of Ministers passed a draft bill to reform the 2003 Nuclear Supplies Act. This preliminary draft would take up, without amending it, the proposal which had been made by the Commission on Nuclear Supplies (CPN). In addition to the adoption of the draft law and its submission to the Council of State, the Council of Ministers of 26 July 2018 asked you to make proposals to strengthen this text before the second reading. According to the newspaper L'Echo – and we remember the discussions that took place in plenary about this article – negotiations continued in August and September with ENGIE and the result would be very damaging for Belgian citizens. The Echo speaks of an important step backwards. No matter who you spoke with, I would like to have some concrete answers on what the newspaper is saying about the review of the control role of the CPN, the government's concession of a "regular stability" clause that puts the future risks on the Belgian state rather than on ENGIE, the explicit recognition in the texts discussed of ENGIE's freedom to organise the perimeter of Electrobel and the composition of its balance sheet, which puts itself at a huge risk of being faced with an empty shell in a few years' time. Minister, do you confirm the information of L'Echo? How will you respond to the Council of Ministers' request to strengthen the draft bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u107	Since Ms. Temmerman was absent, her question would not be asked. Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u108	Mr President, my question is a little broader as it deals with the evolution of the legislative framework for nuclear provisions. Madam Minister, we know that the CNP has made proposals to you on this matter, that the government has sent a text to the Council of State which translates these or some of these proposals and that the government would have given you a mandate to "strengthen" this mechanism by the second reading. Can you first explain why this desire to strengthen the system was not incorporated at first reading and therefore in the text submitted to the Council of State? How are you going to avoid possible subsequent legal attacks that could easily be based on amending a text after its passage to the Council of State rather than responding to the criticisms of the Council of State? What is the assignment assigned to lawyer Xavier Drieux in this case? I'm coming to the bottom. We know that ENGIE wants to introduce a "regular stability" clause and that the surety that the company is about to offer would be valid only with this clause. What does the text sent to the Council of State provide for in this regard? What do you think of this request? Will you follow them and prevent the next government from changing the framework if necessary? According to the press, your text provides an ENGIE guarantee while the CPN considers that Electrabel's assets are a better option and above all that a former executive of Electrabel, someone who participated in the negotiations of the time of the Bianca project, has publicly drawn your attention to ENGIE's desire to "get rid of the nuclear slate" – to take up the title of La Libre of October 10, 2018 – by begging you to have a law passed urgently stipulating that ENGIE Electrabel cannot reduce its own funds below the estimate of the worst case scenario of the costs of dismantling and managing nuclear power plants. Do you now accept, in the face of the growing risk of taking this proposal, which is also ours in consideration? Is it necessary to recall that it is difficult to have real control over a bond located outside the country, which is also with a company whose stock exchange price has been divided by three in ten years? What about the requirement of ENGIE to organise the perimeter of Electrabel and the composition of its balance sheet as it sees fit, when the fears are precisely to find themselves in the long term in the face of an Electrabel stripped of the majority of its assets and unable to meet its obligations? Can you guarantee that the NPC will now be notified in advance (before the information is public) of transactions involving the transfer or transfer of assets, mergers or divisions? Does the proposed surety cover the provisions currently envisaged, or does it also cover provisions that will be revised upwards in the future, for example in the event of a change in the legal framework by the next government? Do you confirm that one of ENGIE's requests is to cement ad vitam at a discount rate of 3.5%? Will the CPN have a negative and positive power of injunction on Synatom? Is the termination of the suspensive nature of Synatom's appeals against the CNP's decisions well reflected in the text sent to the Council of State? Same with respect to the requirement to submit a quarterly report on the use of money loaned by Synatom to Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u109	Minister, an article in L'Echo on 9 October indicated that ENGIE was in the process of disrupting the progress made by government actors in guaranteeing provisions. Indeed, the preliminary draft law originally submitted by the government to the Council of State provided, according to the information available to us, for a strengthening of the powers of the CPN, in particular with regard to the following: - the power to annul certain decisions taken by Synatom or to require him to take specific acts; - a right of prior information concerning all elements which may have an impact on the provisions, such as a change in ownership, a merger, a division or a liquidation affecting Electrabel or Synatom; - tighter control over funds lent by Synatom to Electrabel. The news in the press suggests that ENGIE would condition its bail on Electrabel's financial obligations related to the dismantling of power stations and the management of nuclear waste to three elements: a drastic reduction in the control power of the CPN, a complete freedom on the part of the French giant to reorganise Electrabel as he sees fit, and a limitation of the guarantee to the provisions laid down by the current regulations. You replied that it was a "salmigondis of facts" that does not reflect reality. I note, however, that you acknowledge that these are facts and not allegations. Minister, can you tell us the facts yourself so that we can understand the reality? What is the climate for negotiations with ENGIE Electrabel? Do you give them more confidence in post-nuclear management than in the management of power plants? When will you be able to introduce a bill on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u110	Minister, my colleagues have already mentioned this article in L'Echo, which outlines the negotiations you have had with ENGIE. Negotiations on the bill for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the treatment of waste. In the discussion on the State of the Union, you and the Prime Minister had stated that the objective of these negotiations was to "strengthen the state's position on this issue". Just before the summer, the government passed legislation that regulates the issue of nuclear supplies. While the Council of State is reviewing this text, you have been mandated to continue the work in order to further strengthen the legislation currently under consideration. Minister, despite the existence of a national and international regulatory framework, you are conducting negotiations to ensure that ENGIE Electrabel meets its obligations. Was there any indication that that would not be the case? ENGIE would be sure if, if necessary, Electrabel was unable to fulfil its obligations in the coming years. What is the guarantee that ENGIE would be able to fulfil its obligations over time? What is the third-party value of such a surety and what guarantees does it offer? The Commission on Nuclear Supplies would have already explored this path of a surety provided by ENGIE and abandoned it after a thorough legal analysis, considering that a surety lodged in Paris did not offer the desired guarantees. Can you confirm this analysis of the NPC? Are you analyzing any other leads? The scope of the bond would also be very marked. It would deal only with provisions related to the current regulations and therefore not with additional obligations that would be decided upon as a result of any change in the regulations. It is known that Etienne Davignon (for ENGIE) said that the multinational would establish "an agreement based on today's demands. If the public authority changes the balance of the agreement, we will have to get back to the table." Can you confirm these negotiations on a regulatory stability clause? How do you justify such a clause? You said that the cost of dismantling power plants could under no circumstances be borne by the citizens. What concrete measures are you planning to take? What guarantees can we have that Electrabel does not incorporate these costs into consumers' bills? Finally, what role does the French government play in this matter? Has the Belgian nuclear liability been mentioned in your discussions with your French colleague, for example in connection with the importation of electricity from France this winter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only remind you of what I have already said to you on many occasions. Firstly, the Committee on Nuclear Supplies, on the basis of my mandate to prepare a proposal for a reform of the legislation of 11 April 2003 on the constitution, hence the sufficiency, existence and availability of the nuclear provisions put in place at the time, which is no longer adequate, made a proposal for amendment. This proposed amendment allows the CPN to exercise its prudential control more effectively, so as to strengthen the guarantees as to the three conditions that must be met for nuclear power supplies, to avoid this burden being carried over to future generations, that the polluter-pays principle applies and that this burden is not deferred to the State or to the taxpayer. After several weeks or even months of work, the CPN sent me a dossier which was passed on to the Council of Ministers at first reading and which is still under consideration by the Council of State today. In the meantime, on the occasion of the Council of Ministers on 26 July, the government mandated me to strengthen this text between the first and second readings, in other words, until the text of the CPN came back from the Council of State. The Council of Ministers considered that this text should be further strengthened, which already strengthens the legislation of 11 April 2003 and examines the legal, financial measures that the Belgian State can take to make the parent company even more responsible for nuclear supplies and not the operator alone, as well as how to strengthen control over the use, scope, guarantees and recovery of the assets and assets lent. I requested and obtained from the Council of Ministers that the latter signify its agreement on the appointment of an external legal firm to assist me in the examination of all these elements, namely, the CPN project, the tasks entrusted to me by the government to strengthen the CPN project, the extension of the guarantee base to the whole group, and the enabling the Belgian State to face up by any means of law in the event of action by the ENGIE Group to organise itself with the aim of avoiding the legal obligations imposed on its subsidiary, in accordance with the legislation of 11 April 2003. It's still relatively precise. It is a question of explaining what has not been well understood so far. I feel that some people feed the press with information that is not correct. We can imagine theoretical possibilities. Some things may have been discussed, but my specifications are very clear. That's the way we're going. As soon as I receive the advice of the Council of State, I will come back to the working group to return to the Council of Ministers with Bill CPN, but I will add to the consideration of the Council of Ministers the work I have done with this external legal firm. In the questions that you had already asked me and to which I am still replying, you asked me why I did not start with a working process already studied by the Council of State, which could come back from it. Why? Because the Council of Ministers has taken this decision. Initially, the body best placed to know how it wants its powers to be strengthened is, of course, the CPN, which is designated by law. Moreover, phenomena are linked to the flow of time and to information that we see about the way ENGIE is transformed, with all the assumptions on Bianca projects that are no longer called Bianca, and which are no longer even called elsewhere. In any case, these are not within the scope that I need to examine, since my particular and specific role is to strengthen the legislative framework. At one point, I will present these two texts, and the Council of Ministers will take a decision. If it is indeed a matter of urgent re-examination this time of a text which would be the aggregation of what the CNP has done and what we have done, since we are still working with a certain method, we will of course ask the Council of State to do so. It is the practice of the government to examine, when necessary, the questions, even complex ones, that are asked of it, in order to provide a prompt response to the government's request. So we are still in the same regal situation. The State takes a position in relation to its sovereign power and says that there is no question of braiding anything and that there is no question that a text that goes out of hand is not at the required level of security and severity, both in substance and in form, both in the means and in the supervisory control tools for the CPN. The same applies to legal certainty: the Belgian State has an obligation to ensure that the polluter pays for the pollution he commits. In connection with the technical body that is working side by side, the legal framework must enable us to achieve efficiency in relation to what is necessary. Of course, I can't talk to you about a text. You're talking about a lot of possibilities. That's very good. But, as you know, I can't talk to you about a text until it has been validated by the government. As soon as it is back from the Council of State and the final text is ready to be tabled in Parliament, we will talk about it extensively. It depends on what you do at night to fall asleep, but I am not convinced that the complexity of this text makes you sleepy or, on the contrary, prevents you from falling asleep. I don't know what's going to happen, but it's extremely legal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u112	Minister, to sum up your speech, everything that the newspaper L'Echo has said is wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u113	No, it's not. These are things that are possible but do not exist in the reality of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u114	Mr President, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u115	It may exist, but I don't do that job. That's it! What do you want me to say?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u116	It is possible, but it does not exist in reality. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u117	It's called a "virtual project."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u118	Madam Minister, that's not true, but it's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u119	We're looking to find out. We think it might be that, but it's not that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u120	If that's not the case, that's not the case. I hope so, Madam Minister. Given that we have been waiting for this dossier for a long time and to avoid all assumptions, false truths, true lies, and what I still know, the possible but impossible realities in reality – I don't know and I don't understand anything anymore – it is important that this text be finally on the table. What about timing? We're at the end of the legislature. With the lobbies we know, it's gonna start to get a little more nervous. This text should be brought in so that it can be discussed before the end of the year. I hope that the burden will not be deferred to future generations. These are all the assurances you are being asked for. On the other hand, we know how much we are trying to divert legislation. They will therefore have to be more than precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u121	Minister, I am not going to intervene in substance since you say in your answer that you are not sitting on the substance. I will then speak on three aspects that are not related to the substance but to the procedures that you are using: a legal issue, a political issue and an agenda issue. I'll start with the last one. Have you ever received the advice of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u122	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u123	No. The answer is clear. Secondly, on the legal question, do you think, after going to the Council of State, that you can return to it on the same subject matter? To the best of my knowledge, legally, this is not the way to go. The Council of State will no longer position itself, but I am not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u124	It is a real legal question that I will ask professionals but I can assure you that the text is not the same, even if the object is identical.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u125	Check whether you can do this or not! You're a lawyer, I'm not. The third most important element is political. I do not understand why, when you have the debate in the government and when all your colleagues and you agree that this text needs to be strengthened, you do not say: "It goes back in intercabinets, it is strengthened and sent to the Council of State". No, what you're saying is, "We're sending it to the Council of State and we're strengthening it later and we're going back to the Council of State," which means you're wasting time. I don't understand. It is a question of a political nature, not of content but of procedure. Can you answer me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u126	I do not have a full answer to a question that is entirely logical. I understand very well that we are asking ourselves, but that was the decision of the Council of Ministers. We had a debate on that. It is true that the views of the CPN are not necessarily the views of the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u127	I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u128	At some point, you have a text that is produced by a body that seeks to enhance its effectiveness in the assessment of its provisions, that is, to assess what amounts will have to be disbursed in the future. This work has nothing to do with the work of ONDRAF, although this work is highly linked for the reasons given earlier in answering your questions. The Belgian state, the government more precisely, has positioned itself by saying: "Yes, but we would like to extend through legal aspects a search that carries beyond the perimeter we know, that is, the perimeter of Synatom, the perimeter of Electrobel, and thus go so far as to imagine what elements of reflection could be engaged by the state so that the responsibility extends to that of the parent house."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u129	I hear it well and I find it justified on the merits even if I do not want to position myself on the merits today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u130	Can you conclude, Mr. Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u131	Of course, but as the minister has advanced elements...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u132	Finish now!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u133	I have heard what has been said and I can share it. But I don't understand why you didn't fit him into the intercabinet, minister. It would have saved you time, without having to wait for the advice of the Council of State to be reconsulted and then send its new response. It is a matter of lost time when there is an emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u134	Minister, let me also reply to your statement. I was struck to hear you three or four times saying the word "Regalian". We hope to see in your text the standard that will have to be respected in the general interest and that of the State in relation to the file. I look forward to all the steps being taken to ensure that the polluter is the payer and that there is no unsustainable burden for future generations or for the present population on this issue. I also look forward to your calendar because you have not given us a date. In reply to Mr Nollet, I believe that the House can always refer a text to the Council of State for further information when the files are substantially changed between first and second reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic978x.u135	Madam Minister, I would like to apologize to Mr. Van Hees, who has had to go to the Committee on External Relations and who has stalemated his reply.
