ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u2	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Ms Muriel Gerkens, who resigned on October 11, 2018. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Ms Muriel Gerkens, who resigned on 11 October 2018. The alternate is Sarah Schlitz, the first alternate in the electoral district of Liège. The successor who will replace her is Mrs. Sarah Schlitz, first successor to Liège's constituency. The powers of Sarah Schlitz were validated in our meeting on 19 June 2014. Mrs Sarah Schlitz's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Sarah Schlitz to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Sarah Schlitz to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u3	Sarah Schlitz will be a member of the French language group. Ms Sarah Schlitz will be part of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u4	By letter dated 9 October 2018, the Senate informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting. By message of October 9, 2018, the Senate announced that it had constituted itself at its sitting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u5	By letter of 11 October 2018, the Head of the King's Cabinet sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work. By letter dated 11 October 2018, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of our Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a birthday that we do not allow to pass unnoticed. Apart from one day, it is two hundred years ago, day by day, that the very first parliamentary session took place in this hemisphere. On 19 October 1818 twelve years before the Belgian Independence, the members of the States-General came to this room to listen to the eulogy of the beginning of the parliamentary year 1818-1819. The building in which we are gathered has an even longer history, since it was erected in 1779 to install what was the Council of Brabant. The Council and the Duchy of Brabant have now disappeared and have been forgotten for a long time, but the palace - the present Palace of the Nation - still remains. To gather for a moment in front of so much history is not incongruous. From 1815 the Kingdom of the Netherlands united the present Belgium and the Netherlands and was the result of a geopolitical chess game to contain France. The new state would have the parliament meeting alternately in Brussels and The Hague. In Brussels they looked for a suitable location and after the necessary renovations the two rooms of the State-General found their place at the park of Brussels. Looking back over these two hundred years, we must note that Parliament has had modest beginnings here. Parliamentarians were not yet directly elected by the people. The ministers were the king's personal collaborators and were not accountable to Parliament. Budgets were voted only every ten years, even though it is par excellence of a moment of control over the government's work. Moreover, it was the king – not the members – who appointed the Speaker of the Second Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, our present parliamentary institutions have come in response to such restrictions on the representation of the people. The control of the executive, by written and oral questions, interplays, proposals of all kinds, is at the heart of the parliamentary mandate in 2018, in addition to its role as legislator. Accountability to the representatives of the people has become evident. That is why it is worth looking back and realizing which road has been taken in 200 years. So much for the historic moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u7	Now I propose to translate the theory into practice and start our work with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u8	Mr President, Minister, today your police are against you and against your policy. It is, in the history of the police services, never before seen! A real generalized ras-le-bol is being felt. These public service workers can't do that anymore and let you know. Those men and women who ensure our safety night and day, out in all times, you don't respect them. I am a member of the Committee on the Interior and, for the past four years, we have been witnessing a disruption of their status without any union consultation. You want to reform sick leave, the police still don't know when they can retire, you want to review their disciplinary status and get their bonuses. In one year, more than 500 police officers made a burn-out because their workload is huge. Instead of listening to the police unions asking you to hire staff and review the funding of the police areas, you are deaf ears. Even worse, you are taking the decision to reduce the recruitment from 1,400 police officers to 800, while currently there are almost 3,700 police officers missing in the country. And now it's with the security of the citizens that you're playing. This is unacceptable! Mr Minister, my question is therefore simple: what do you intend to put on the table to restore trust and dialogue with police officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u9	Mr. Speaker, Minister, since the beginning of the Parliament, we have been warning you of the shortage of police personnel and their difficult working conditions. Although you affirm that you respect social dialogue and take account of the specificities of the work of our law enforcement agencies, the situation becomes untenable. As at 30 June 2018, there were 2,271 missing federal police officers and 2,218 missing local police officers. The shortage is particularly marked in the Brussels region. While our police officers are literally exhausted, overloaded and even abused, your government intends to eliminate the possibility of cumulating their unused sick days from year to year. However, this regime was more than justified in view of their working conditions and the ever-increasing tasks required of them. In response to these structural problems, you announced yesterday in the Committee on the Interior that the new concept of selection developed by the integrated police was currently subject to union negotiations and that it should increase the success rate of the selection processes without lowering the level of demand. What have we learned in recent days? Candidates found unsatisfactory at the time of the selection, including candidates with a criminal background, are admitted to police training, probably in order to meet your goal of 1,400 hires per year. Yesterday, we also learned that, in protest, several hundred police officers entered a medical certificate covering the days of European summits and ASEM of the last three days. This morning, police officers informed us that 17 vehicles of the Luxembourg army had been reported on the motorway towards Brussels; no doubt to remedy the shortage of police personnel during the summits. Minister, what guarantees can you give us today as to the speed of the recruitment procedures you intend to put in place, but also as to the quality of the selected candidates? What is the status of your negotiations with the trade unions, in particular with regard to the recognition of the tenability of police work? What is the military and police force finally mobilized for the summits of these 17, 18 and 19 October? Where did they come from? Do you confirm that you have requisitioned the Luxembourg army to ensure the security of these summits?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I have a question for you. Who is today the public enemy No. 1 of the police in our country? His name is Jan Jambon. This government and you, in particular, are attacking all the rights of the police. First, the pension age is increased from 66 to 58 years, which is a loss of income for police pensioners. Second, the number of days off increases from 33 to 24 days, and you refuse to negotiate. Thirdly, wages have not been increased since 2001, with premiums that are not paid if you are ill. Fourth, you are transforming the 30-day sickness diet system with cumulative days into a 21-day system without cumulation, knowing that the disease is not a choice. And the Members present here, especially those on the right who risk signing your plans, know that disease is not a choice because they themselves have the opportunity to be sick as much as they want. It should be noted that in the police, when you are ill, you lose not only 40% of your salary but also, on average, 400 euros of premiums per month. Fifth, the police are understaffed. There are no fewer than 3,600 police officers missing in the country, and you are halving the number of planned recruitments. There will be only 780 recruits now, while we know that there are 3,000 retirements per year. Finally, you touch the right to strike. We know that all the strikers have been requisitioned. It can be understood that certain compelling situations imply that some are requisitioned but, if all are requisitioned, where is the right to strike? In addition, the Minister is lying. You have to say it the way it is. Minister, you're claiming that we didn't requisition military personnel to replace the police. However, 150 military personnel were requisitioned to protect secure sites. You say there's less than 15 percent sick in the police. That's not true! There's 30 percent! At Het Nieuwsblad, you say we don't call the medical examiner. That's not true! Yesterday, 190 agents were sent to Brussels to see the medical examiner. I come to my questions, Minister. What is a minister supposed to do when he appears to have lied? Are you aware that there has rarely been such a social grunt among the police against the government? Finally, will you fundamentally review your anti-social policy vis-à-vis the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u11	Minister, the police unions have just left your cabinet's negotiating table. According to the information we received, you did not find it worth attending these negotiations. According to the police, no concrete progress is being made to respond to their grievances. And I think they're right. Today we have to note that 1 000 of the police people working in Brussels are at home with the flu. For Liege, it would be 800 police officers and neighborhood offices would be closed. Last Friday, policemen took punctuality actions out of protest. Moreover, the unions were thinking of boycotting the flash marathon that took place yesterday. Mr Minister, the boycott and the flu attacks are not just happening. This sudden outbreak of flu is a powerful signal to the government, to you. The frustrations of the policemen, to which the previous speakers have already referred, are well known. The federal police sometimes have to deal with obsolete equipment. The retirement age will be increased, but the pension amount will be reduced. The statute and the regulations relating to sick days are now being affected. What's it gonna be later? The worst thing is that the pressure on the police is constantly increasing. There has been a shortage of policemen for years, despite the recommendations of the Terrorist Commission. In addition, policemen have been reassigned to accompany the European summit by many corps, as has been the case in the past, and I read that defence would also have been asked to jump in. Minister, the problem is well known. In the aftermath of the attacks, the main recommendation was that there should be more policemen. However, that does not seem to be possible. You gave the relevant figures in committee. You're not getting there. Last week, during the debate on the State of the Union, you stated that the shortage of police officers is a permanent concern for you. Thank goodness, I'd say. But, honestly, that doesn't buy us anything for the frustrated policemen. They stand with their backs against the wall. I come to my questions, Minister. Firstly, you often announce figures, but can you tell me exactly how much the shortage of policemen is and how many more will come? When can they get to work effectively? Linked to that, when will you finally make the selection procedure concrete? Secondly, can you briefly outline why the negotiations with the police unions were happening today? How will you deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a number of trade unions activated a strike notice which runs until tomorrow and concerns police personnel mobilised by the European summit and the meeting of the Europe-Asia Dialogue in Brussels. Therefore, Mr Minister, you have had to requisition the police personnel necessary to supervise these summits. According to the local police spokesman, the security of the summits will be ensured, in particular through collaboration with other police areas and with the federal police. In any case, this situation reflects a deep malaise within the police. We are obviously very sensitive to this, given its essential role in our security. As proof of this malaise – and I say it without punctuality – dozens of police officers would have issued a medical certificate preventing their mobilization. That is what we saw yesterday at the meeting of the police college in the Brussels-West area. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this leads us to question the methods that can be used by trade unions. Indeed, in this regard, the Order of Physicians has raised its question as to the respect of the principles that must guide the issuance of these medical documents. These – said the Order of Physicians – must, in fact, be written by doctors in a sincere and objective manner. Was there a diversion of purpose from the certificates encouraged by the trade unions? Moreover, a certain mix is created between different dossiers to maintain the confusion: pension reform, sick leave reform, reform of disciplinary status, recruitment policy until the challenge of the Canal Plan. Everything is good to try to worry! The unions seem to have been overtaken by this movement as they would have decided to stop participating in the meetings planned with the Senior Consultation Committee and the Negotiating Committee within the police. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the question of their legitimacy arises since we have learned that two police officers of the PJF of Liège who consider that the police cause is not properly defended have created a Facebook group of nearly 20,000 members. Minister, what is your analysis of the situation? With this requisition, you have reached a solution to secure the two summits that are taking place this week, but what are the structural solutions that you are advocating to avoid this kind of situation in the future? What is the status of the discussions with the unions on the various issues I have mentioned today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u13	Mr Vice Prime Minister, there is a "police flu" in our country. In fact, these policemen are not sick, but through this way they protest against their employer, the government. In Brussels, 1 000 policemen protested and in Liège 800. This not only causes a major safety problem, especially at this European summit, but it also means that their colleagues who are at work have to work twice as hard. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you said you wouldn't send in auditors but that you would go for consultation with the policemen. Indeed, consultation is crucial, but the problems are not new. One of the problems has to do with the number of policemen. According to the KUL standard, there are 3 700 units too few. However, we all know that this standard is outdated and needs revision. There is also your core task plan, but it does not deliver enough results today. Moreover, we know that both recruitment and training are difficult, too rigid and too slow. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, with my group I would like to answer the following questions. Firstly, how will you guarantee basic police care during these strike days? Secondly, what do you put on the table during the meeting? Thirdly, do you or do you not intend to send in control doctors if the consultation is unsuccessful? Fourthly, what reforms can we expect from you in the next seven months?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the police force is difficult to strike because it is too crucial a link in our society. But at some point it has been enough for the police, as we have seen over the last few days and weeks. And then other ways are sought and found to express the protest, by calling in sick, through punctuality actions. Minister, the shortage of police officers is an old one. You've been confronted with this ever since you were appointed. Figures you have already given show that a total of 3 707 police officers are too few, including 1 610 units in the federal police force and 2 097 units in the local police force. In three-quarters of the police zones, there are fewer agents than we had planned. As a result, too few policemen have to vouch for too much work, which is no longer sustainable in the long term. You have been Minister of Security and Home Affairs for four years and the slogan of your party was: "Safe at home in a prosperous Flanders." We have already seen how many people have fallen out of the boat in that prosperous Flanders, but now you will not be able to keep the first part of your promise safe at home either. No one says that you have not made any efforts, but you have acted too late and too slowly and your actions are not decisive enough to tackle the problems effectively. Today, this means that commissioners will be closed down. Today, this means that the targets for the number of traffic checks to be carried out every year are not being met, because there are too few policemen. This situation, which is more than serious, is unworthy of a welfare state. My only simple question is what will you do to eliminate the great distrust that lives in your corps today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u15	Mr Minister, yesterday we had the opportunity to raise this issue of grunt in the police services, during a question in committee. I will rely on the figures you have provided on the deficit, and I will rely solely on this issue which I believe is essential. It concerns the workload and the various tasks entrusted to the police. As has been said, the deficit is 2271 for the federal police and 2228 for the local police. That makes roughly 4400 missing units. During your policy note in 2018, I pinned two sentences. You said: "The efforts made in 2017 and 2018 will ensure that the police capacity available remains the same." You added: "The necessary efforts have been made throughout the legislature in order to neutralise the travel of savings on staff credits". You were therefore confirming with these two sentences what we have been saying since the beginning of this Parliament, that investments are only catching up with the linear savings decided by your government in its early days. However, the needs expressed throughout the police, and in the security services in a broader manner, not only reflect the need to maintain the available capacity, but also, above all, to strengthen it. How are you going to "neutralize", as you say, this journey of savings and to increase police capacity? The efforts that were not made at the beginning of the legislature are now being felt and a catch-up is needed. In addition, we have been waiting for the evaluation of the law on the optimisation of police services for the past two years. The Open Vld, a partner of the majority, has requested this on several occasions. I really ask that we be able to formally examine the outcome of this evaluation in the Committee on the Interior. When are you prepared to forward it to the Committee on the Interior?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone will have to admit that in recent years, months, weeks and days, the workload of the police and the security services in general has been very high. Everyone is aware of this and pays due respect to the police and security services. The social unrest we are experiencing today is based on four factors. First of all, the disease capital. Secondly, capacity, as mentioned by a number of members. Thirdly, pay and, fourthly, violence against the police. These are the four files that I believe are at the root of this social conflict. I will deal with these four points separately. First of all, the disease capital. In July, the government took a decision on the reform of the sickness capital system, not only for the public office but also for the various corpses. That will be implemented, including in the police force. I have informed the trade unions that there is scope for consultation on transitional measures in order to reach an agreement. Negotiations have begun. Secondly, capacity. The deficit we are talking about has been going on for a long time. Three years ago we started recruiting 1 600 policemen, last year there were 1 400 and this year 1 400. That pace will have to be maintained in the coming years. With 1 400 men, the police schools are full. That is therefore the greatest possible capacity. This effort will have to be sustained for a while. I have already explained here or in the Home Affairs Committee a number of times about the weakness, recruitment, the way in which federal recruitment was carried out. Years ago, we had KPMG carry out a very thorough study on this, which everyone recognised as valuable. Now we are systematically implementing it. A change process takes time, it doesn't last one night. By the end of the year, the new recruitment process will have been adapted and additional budgets will be made available to make it possible. We will continue to evaluate whether the recruitment process leads to the objectives set. That's supposed to solve the capacity problem. As far as pay is concerned, I really do not understand the discontent of the unions, as an agreement has been reached with three of them to increase the salaries of many police officers. This agreement will enter into force on 1 January 2019. I therefore do not understand this discontent at all. I protest against the criticism that we are going to touch on the drawbacks. That's not true! For those who do not know, the disadvantages relate to the salaries associated with weekend benefits and overtime. We don't touch these drawbacks. This regime has remained unchanged since the reform of the police. With regard to the last part on violence against the police, I think I can speak on behalf of all here, parliamentarians and society. Violence against police officers is unacceptable. We must do everything we can to help the police and avoid this violence. I want to point out that every suggestion made by the trade unions to combat this violence has been implemented or is being implemented, within the framework of my expertise, but also that of my colleague Geens, who will strengthen the law on violence against the police. All measures are either in preparation or already in force. My doors are open to trade unions if there is a need for additional measures, because this violence is unacceptable and I want to do everything I can to combat it. I am at the side of the police and their unions to tackle this phenomenon. In order to put an end to the concern in the police forces, which is often based on bad information, I have asked the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, as well as the local police, to distribute a communication to all police officers in order to restore the truth and correct information to the services. The distribution has already taken place. This communication is being made today. I will address two more points, including the situation during the European summit. It has been puzzle work, but we needed the capacity on the ground to guarantee security for this summit and for the Eurasia Summit. My door's always open. Here it was suggested that I rarely have contact with the unions. Well, the opposite is true! Both formal and informal contacts between the trade unions and my cabinet are frequent. The same goes for myself and the trade unions. My door is, of course, open to continuing the consultation. You will accept from me that I will not conduct the consultations and negotiations here in Parliament. I would like to keep you informed of the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u17	Minister, "too is te veel". You have to be able to listen to the distress and anger of the police. We want strong and high-quality police services, in which all workers are listened to and taken into account for the work they do. The only answer you have given us in recent years is the privatization of police missions, the reduction in the number of recruitments of officers and the demolition of their status. Nothing is being done to improve their working conditions. We reach the end of the legislature. We can say that your newsletter in this area will be a zero point!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u18	Minister, I hear your awareness, but it is very late. Since the beginning of the legislature, the police have been asking you for concrete and strong measures, which would guarantee the safety of our citizens and preserve our status as European capital. Moreover, you did not answer the question I asked you about the police groups coming from abroad to strengthen the teams present at the two summits. In any case, I invite you to recruit enough quality officers to ensure that police missions are properly completed. I also invite you to revise the KUL standard for funding police areas, which has not been updated since 2001, while the Brussels population has increased by 18% in twelve years and the frequency of European summits in Brussels, Minister, has grown considerably, requiring an ever-increasing police force. It is about respect for our police forces, the security that we must guarantee to our fellow citizens, the international credibility of our country and, in particular, our capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u19	Mr Minister, I am surprised that you did not answer the question of the various lies, or counter-truths, which you are accused of; of the fact that you would not have requisitioned military personnel, whereas the facts show that this is the case; of the fact that you would not have sent medical examiners. In Het Nieuwsblad, you said there would be no witch hunt and doctors would not be solicited. In Brussels, 190 agents were sent to the medical examiner. How can you imagine re-establishing a relationship of trust with the police and their unions if you make false statements in the media? You're telling us that if there's any concern in the police, it's because of bad information. This is a common technique in this government. About pensions, people misunderstood! As far as index jump is concerned, people probably misunderstood! We have misunderstood the increase in VAT on electricity! With every social attack, people misunderstood! With regard to violence against the police, you tell us that you are on the side of the police and the unions. This means that in all the other files, in fact, you don't hear them. Minister, your door is open, but your ears should be open as well. Finally, in this government, it is the N-VA that primarily attacks the public services: you, the police, the Minister M. Van Overtveldt, the finance force, which is considerably reduced and, of course, Mr Vandeput, who is attacking the army and the entire civil service. It's starting to do well, this social breakdown and this breakdown of public services!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u20	Minister, the absenteeism rate is rising, but not since yesterday's flu epidemic or the day before yesterday. The figures we have requested in committee show that absenteeism has been rising for several years in a row, which clearly indicates that there is a problem with the police services. This problem, sometimes called grey absenteeism, has to do with a lack of respect by the employer towards the employee. There is no listening. There is no answer to the questions of the policemen. No reward is given. Above all, there is not enough effective listening. It is not enough for us to be here during the policy statement, as either you or the Prime Minister did. You must take effective action. You just gave the figures: 1 400 recruitments a year. That was the number of recruitments at the beginning, but in the end there are not so many. You're failing to make the catch-up move. Mr President, there was another birthday today. In the meantime, the Minister is Minister for four years. He admits that a catch-up was needed. Today it still hasn't come. If effective action is not taken, it will only get worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u21	Minister, this morning in Liège, we learned that two individuals tried to escape from police officers by kicking at them with their car. Police work is dangerous, harsh, most often ungrateful. I know, you know that. It is therefore important that you implement measures as quickly as possible to recruit more staff. The police deserve it, the public deserves it. On the other hand, the population does not deserve, even with the freedom of speech, the words of a parliamentarian who, here, allows himself to tell the Minister of the Interior that he is the number one public enemy! I think when we get there, it's not in the police that we have to look for the sick!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u22	Mr Minister, on behalf of my group, I would first of all like to pay tribute to our policemen who are working and who are working twice as hard these days for the sake of those who are not here. We believe that police officers have an exemplary role to play. With this action they completely ignore it, because what signal do we send when we tolerate it? Where's it gonna end and who's gonna get infected with the police flu? Consultation is important, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, but the abuse of our health insurance with the help of so many doctors who write the sick notes is simply scandalous, according to my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u23	Minister, you promise a great deal. You have already received a lot of questions and you always come up with a series of measures. You have been announcing many measures for a long time, but there is no or hardly any improvement on the ground. You announce yet again additional recruitments to........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In your party it is called pruning to bloom, but in the end it is obviously tampering, because there is a big problem. A deficit of 3 700 men is impossible to eliminate in the short term with 1 400 recruitments per year. That will be a long-term work, unless an extra tooth is added to do the catching-up operation. That's why you have a big problem today. You can't fix it. The core task of the government, guaranteeing security in our country, is thus under severe pressure, and that is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u24	Minister, in response to a topical question on police violence on 4 October last, you said that every time the press calls into question the police, questions are asked in this chamber but no question is asked about the efforts made every day and every night by tens of thousands of police officers to ensure our safety, often at the risk of their lives. I believe that today's and yesterday's questions show that we are also mobilized when it comes to defending the police. With regard to the recruitment aspect, it is extremely difficult, according to the former Commissioner General – who was talking about 11% deficit, which could rise to 24% – to catch up with such a serious deficit when you dug large holes in the security budget in 2015 and 2016. You should be aware that the linear savings you have made cause the current situation, where the police are on the brink of the abyss. I really ask you to remedy this situation, which can no longer be sustained, at the risk of endangering the safety of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u25	Mr President, human rights are mainly for internal use in this country, to establish and maintain cordon's sanitation, to exclude and condemn parties. Holy indignation about a jar of chocomousse, about a like on Facebook or about a misplaced tweet, somewhere on the Internet. However, the protest silences when it comes to democratically elected politicians who are thrown into jail and defended by a chairman of parliament. At a time like this, they don't hear this minister. On the contrary, Catalonia is not being defended against the Spanish Government. There was no protest today when Brunei's sultan, even such a great defender of human rights, visits our country and visits King Filip. Brunei's sultan recently introduced Sharia. Homosexuals are stoned in his country. Christmas is forbidden. Such people are welcome here. They are received with great respect. I sometimes wonder why these two measures and two weights are being used, Minister. Human rights only for internal use, if it suits you and these traditional parties, but never when it comes to serious facts abroad. I am thinking of the Spanish Government, which muzzles democracy, human rights and freedom of expression, even in this country, in response to statements by the President of the Flemish Parliament. In addition, they put pressure on you by a Flemish representative in Spain to waive his diplomatic rights. The same goes for the sultan of Brunei. Elsewhere he is boycotted and looked with his back, but here he is received with open arms by the monarchy. One monarchy is equal to another. My question to you, Minister, is quite simple. Why those two sizes and two weights? Why do you not act in respect of the Spanish Government? Why don't you defend the Flemish government? Why do you not accept your responsibility when it comes to the presence of a power mocker such as the sultan of Brunei who has been holding his people under his dictator since 1967?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I was recently present at the opening of a beautiful photo exhibition on the events of 1 October 2017 in Catalonia, where a referendum took place. I also listened to Mr Peumans' speech at the opening of that exhibition and to his critical opinion on what is happening in Spain today. As a result, the Spanish Government decided to withdraw the representative of the Flemish Government from Madrid or at least to deprive him of his diplomatic powers. Colleagues, that is unseen and out of all proportion. It is the first time within the European Union that a Member State has called back the diplomat of another Member State and that is purely as a political reprisal against the statements of an elected representative of the people, of an elected President of the Flemish Parliament who gave his opinion on that situation. A debate was held yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. This showed that there is great unanimity across all party boundaries in order to condemn that decision. There is support for the President of the Flemish Parliament in his capacity, in his right to free speech as elected. Minister, will you be diplomatically supportive of Flanders and will you invite the Spanish ambassador in Belgium to discuss this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u27	Mr Minister, yesterday we heard Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois in the Flemish Parliament say that he contacted you and that you were going to call on the ambassador. You're saying it's not true. What is it now? Only one of you two can speak the truth. We've heard this story before. Prime Minister Geert-Bourgeois says that the Prime Minister has no business at the top of the Francophony. You said here last week that it was very important for the Prime Minister to be there. In 2014, it was said that the federal level would be at the service of the Länder. In 2018 I only determine the opposite. Yesterday there was general agreement in the Flemish Parliament on condemning Spain's attitude. I don't see how this is gonna work. The parties N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld do support this in the Flemish Parliament but do not manage to convince your party, the MR. I feel that diplomacy in this country is very French-speaking. Minister, for more than a year, people have been locked up for expressing their free opinion. I am talking about the two Jordis and a number of top politicians who have made it possible for a peaceful referendum to take place. If they are locked up for that, then they are in a rogue state, Minister. Punitive language in the Flemish Parliament is easy. Silence in the federal parliament is even easier. Spain has been condemned very recently by the European Human Rights Court in the context of the violation of the right to freedom of expression. Minister, what else needs to be done before the federal government takes action? Will you call the ambassador on the mat? Yes or no? What steps are you going to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Spain is concerned, you know the importance I attach to the role and freedom of Members of Parliament. However, it is not for the Foreign Minister to comment on statements made by a President of a Land Parliament. This is a matter between the Flemish government and Spain. I took note of the statement by Flemish Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois yesterday in the Flemish Parliament and I had contact with him. We agreed that he would send me a formal letter with the message that the Flemish Parliament and/or the Flemish Government would like to convey to the Spanish ambassador in Belgium. On that basis, I can contact the ambassador to deliver the message from the Flemish government. If the Flemish government wishes to communicate via the Spanish embassy in Belgium or via the Belgian embassy in Spain, Foreign Affairs will ensure this. I am therefore waiting for a specific letter from the Prime Minister of Flanders. As far as Brunei is concerned, this country, like many other Asian countries, participates in the ASEM Summit in Brussels. In this context, we are in contact with various leaders present in Brussels. So we have had bilateral contacts with a number of colleagues in recent days and also today. I can assure you that I systematically address the human rights situation in my bilateral contacts. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is and remains a cornerstone of Belgian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u29	As always, Minister, you have spoken a lot, but you have said little. In the end, you admit that you do not wish to act, not against the Spanish state, and certainly not against the Sultan of Brunei. What the hell is this sultan doing here? That he attends a summit here, so far, but he is received by the King. The government is politically responsible for the King's political actions. The King receives that man and legitimizes him by receiving him. It's a man like that. People point the door. He's not being received. They don't shake his hand. They don't even give him a glass of water. He's being pointed at the door. However, you do not. The same applies to Spain: you refuse to act efficiently and decisively. You measure in two sizes. A jar of chocomousse or a like on Facebook are enough to be nailed to shame in this country and to be on the first page of all newspapers, without having the chance to defend themselves. However, Sultans from Brunei and Spanish politicians who trample on human rights and silence democratically elected Members of Parliament are applauded and not obstructed. That's Belgium in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u30	Minister, I am pleased that you are talking to the Spanish Ambassador and that the grievances of the Flemish Government will be the subject of that discussion. You will join in the logic of Flanders. You're not dropping Flanders. I understand that from your words. Of course, it's the reverse world. That can be said at some point. It is very bizarre that Flanders is being flagged today for statements by a representative of the people, whereas it should be Spain that needs to be flagged for what is happening there. I think everyone can agree to that. Democratically elected politicians are still in prison today, without trial. Catalan leaders of civil society have been imprisoned in prison for over a year without a sentence. That is unworthy of a European Member State. Finally, I would like to address Mr Sánchez himself. You withdraw the diplomatic representative of Flanders because a Flemish representative makes statements about Spain. Then go ahead with the logic, because I, a federal representative of the people, will make statements here in this federal Parliament like Mr Peumans. I believe that Spain today is unworthy of being a Member State of Europe, as long as the political prisoners are not released. If you go through the logic, you should also call back the Belgian ambassador in Madrid.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You are actually saying that it is not the role of the Foreign Minister to intervene in Flemish policy. So you actually support Flemish independence. It's nice to hear that from you. However, I should like to refer to judgment No. 80/2015 of the Constitutional Court. It does say that there is autonomy for the Länder in international relations, but it also says that you need to take on a coordinating role in order to avoid a conflicting foreign policy being pursued in a state. But what do we see now? Spain is breaking diplomatic relations with Flanders and you are doing nothing. You must accept your responsibility and ensure that there is no conflicting policy. That's your assignment. When we talk about Poland or Hungary, you always talk about human rights immediately, Minister. However, when it comes to Spain, you tend to remain silent in all languages. I really don't know what else to do, because in our view Spain remains a villain state. Such a Spain cannot be a member of the European Union and it is up to you to raise this issue at the European summit and to move in this direction. That's your role.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u32	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, yesterday we witnessed a new episode of the famous British soap opera called Brexit. Many had thought that this series would be in the trend of House of Cards, the well-known series from the United States. However, nothing is less true. Fawlty Towers has been inspired, in which a number of comedians perform comic sketches that are repeated on countless occasions. The difference is, if we look at the effects of a Brexit on our economy, they're not funny. A deeply divided British Government and a deeply divided British Parliament are today in the middle of the Irish border. They all agree that that limit should not be a hard one. However, no one knows how to untangle the knot. Northern Ireland, in the customs union and in the single market, does not want to keep the Unionists. Keeping the whole of the United Kingdom in the single market is not what the Brexiteers want. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the negotiations are therefore stalled. The recent admission by the European Union yesterday to extend the transition period is, of course, a good signal, which we certainly welcome. However, the transition phase should not be too strict in time either. Ladies and gentlemen, a long transition phase does not make any sense today. In order for it to start, there must be an agreement on the Northern Irish border. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, how do you see, first of all, the Brexit negotiations continuing after yesterday's new démarche? Do you see a possible solution to get out of the current stalemate? Secondly, is the impasse in the negotiations a signal for the European Union and our country to pay more attention to the preparation of a no deal? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u33	Mr Vandenput, we have actually made some progress in recent weeks. That's done and clear. That was already announced by Michel Barnier. Firstly, I am thinking of a number of points of progress in areas where withdrawal will be felt, in particular governance and geographical aspects such as Gibraltar, which is particularly important for Spain and the British bases in Cyprus. However, there is still no agreement on a very important point, namely the Northern Ireland border issue. You have pointed out that there are several possible solutions. Last weekend it was impossible to reach an agreement on a customs union not only with Northern Ireland but perhaps with Britain in the longer term. Indeed, for the time being, we do not want to know about this in the United Kingdom. What's the status? We are trying to reach an agreement. That is in our interests, but also in the interests of the whole of the European Union and even more so in the interests of Great Britain. We also need time to do so. This was confirmed again at the summit yesterday. We do not have that much time, we only have a few weeks until the end of the year. After all, we need at least three months to approve the possible agreement in the various parliaments, and those approvals must be made before 29 March 2019. Indeed, we must make a great deal of effort and try to reach an agreement. That does not alter the fact that we have to prepare ourselves for a no deal at the same time. That too is still possible. An approach in this area is coordinated between the Member States and the European Commission. In this light, last Tuesday the General Affairs Council in Luxembourg asked for a no deal to be prepared. That is not obvious, but we must do so, in cooperation with all our colleagues. To sum up, we have asked that Mr Michel Barnier be given a few weeks to work out a solution to the Northern Ireland border problem, which is the last point. We do not want a physical border, but we must wait for the end of the British negotiations in London.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u34	Minister, I welcome your answers. You confirm that a two-track policy is currently being pursued. On the one hand, we are trying to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion. On the other hand, initiatives are being taken between Member States and the EU to prepare for a no deal. We have every confidence in the European negotiators. I'd like to confirm that again. However, we have much less confidence in the British Government, which is very split up today. I'm looking forward to the sequel to the show.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u35	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the average wage of a first-class professional footballer is around 337 000 euros. Taxpayers subsidise this for an amount of as much as 117 000 euros per player per year. The odd situation in our country is that a saleswoman with a monthly wage of around EUR 2 400 pays 411 more social contributions than a top footballer or that a construction worker with a monthly wage of around EUR 2 800 pays more than EUR 2 500 social security costs more than a top footballer. That system's escalated. In 2006, we gave 24 million euros of social benefits to football. Ten years later, in 2016, that rose to EUR 70 million, money that we can ask for is well spent money. Who's gonna get better? We did not need the recent scandal to know that the system has exploded completely. If we look at the latest information, we'll see who's getting better. Those are the real estate agents and the foreign investors in the clubs. Those clubs run a lot of revenue and generate very little profit, because just before the end of the financial year that profit is invested in transfers of players. Thus, the assets of the clubs are increased, corporate tax is reduced and the added value of resale is much higher. We have already mentioned that that is no longer true. That's not gonna be sold to a sane man or a politician. In March 2018, we already had an exchange of views in plenary. You promised at the time that you would evaluate and adjust the system. I am pleased that a number of ministers have now supported your position. I hear echoes from the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice. A Minister of State will deal with the football file. It is high time for a real evaluation of that favourable social security system, which falls within your competence, but also of the tax system and of all relevant support measures. If the taxpayer invests so much and sees that these sums are used for match fixing or for money laundering techniques, we can only ask when you will change that scheme. Hopefully, that will happen soon. What's the timing? How's the meeting going? When can we expect a draft from the government? What are the contours of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u36	Mr Deseyn, thank you for your question. I'm gonna have to put on a nuance. It is a complex dossier and we must not fall into the trap of simplism. It is clear that a signal is needed. Last week, I was the first to give an impetus to this and, fortunately, I was followed by a number of colleagues. The system in question does not apply only to football and to large-scale earners; all paid athletes can use it. As some paid athletes earn very little and need the measure to make ends meet, a simple raising of the ceiling would cause them problems. They are athletes in less paid sports disciplines or footballers in the lower classes than the first class footballers. Of course, the favour regime needs to be reviewed, but I would remind you that there are other favor regimes, namely the regime for scientific institutions, the tax shelter for film and performing arts, the copyrights of consultants and journalists. We will therefore have to examine everything, and we must not throw the child away with the bath water by immediately abolishing all the favor regimes. In football, however, there are considerable amounts of money involved. The removal of the favor regime would immediately have a significant effect. A complete review would lead to a number of major problems. So we will certainly have to make adjustments step by step. It's my job to fully inform you. Well, we have indeed examined the issue, but the dossier is very complex and very sensitive. For those who have not heard it last week, my message to the sector concerned is that I expect a strong signal of how he intends to deal with the problems. If that signal is not forthcoming, we will have to take the lead ourselves. We are therefore certainly planning an early consultation with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u37	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You remain rather vague and repeat that you will do further research. I agree it's a complex file. It's not black and white. Our group has never asked for the whole system to be hijacked and thrown overboard. It is a difficult dossier, which will not be resolved with a legislative proposal. We certainly agree that there is a need to be re-directed. Our group will take an initiative in the Finance Committee. Mr Van Rompuy, chairman of the committee, will guarantee this and we will invite you, as the minister responsible, to do so, as well as the Minister of Finance and the specialists from the field. The latter can be taken literally in this. Think of someone like Mr Coucke, who announced yesterday or today in the newspaper that he wants to revise the system of real estate payments. In my opinion, you believe rather strongly in self-regulation, a signal that must come from the sector. I believe that there is an urgent need for legislative change. How could we look into the eyes of the correct taxpayer and ask him to make a big contribution if we let others go virtually free?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after Swiss Leaks, Lux Leaks and Panama Papers, today we are dealing with the CumEx Files, again a solid piece of work by a consortium of investigative journalists. This time it is not about non-payment, avoidance or avoidance of taxes, but about criminals who manage to recover taxes and withholding tax, which they had not even paid. In this way, they are directly grabbed into the taxpayer's greenhouse. It is about hallucinating amounts: EUR 55 billion across Europe. In Germany, EUR 31.8 billion in tax money, EUR 17 billion in France, EUR 4.5 billion in Italy and EUR 1.7 billion in Denmark. Almost Belgium was on that list with 1 billion euros, almost. Thanks to the alertness of our tax authorities, the theft of EUR 780 million was avoided. I would like to thank and congratulate the people of the IRS and the FPS Finance, who have shown this alertness and have been able to avoid this theft. I think they have done a very good job. However, Minister, that is not the end of the story. Now it's up to these criminals to get behind their feathers. That is why I have the following questions for you. How have your services handled this so far? What can and will you do, together with your colleague from the Justice Department and colleagues from the other affected European countries, to recover the overdue tax money, the EUR 250 million that we have been able to recover from our tax money, and not let criminals avoid their punishment? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u39	Mr President, Mr Dedecker, it is true that we have been able to detect a large-scale fraud, as you have said. It concerns the recovery of withholding tax which was never paid and for which there was no basis for recovery. It's about a global phenomenon, a carousel with Dubai's most important location. In the course of 2015, the people of the FPS Finance Control Services managed to detect this phenomenon and put a stop to it. As a result, we have managed to stop EUR 782 million in fraud. This is a considerable amount of money. You quoted the figures of the countries around us, and that is where the fraud was in the billions. It goes without saying that we are doing everything in our power to keep such doors open and it can be quite wide with such carousels. In this context, we have already issued a royal decree which will speed up the identification of debtors and the recovery procedure. We intend to take further initiatives, which can best be done in an international context, but if this does not seem feasible, we will certainly do so on our own. Financial institutions that make the recovery of such withholding tax or other elements of taxation to the tax authorities will be given greater responsibility for controlling the legality of those requirements. In my view, what we have now discovered above all shows that the fight against tax fraud is not only a question of ex post punishment, after discovery, but at least the same amount of proactive action, trying to prevent it. We certainly want to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the case of previous leaks, such as the Panama Papers, populists were in the front row in this country to sue and to give the false impression that the fight against fraud in our country would be a joke under the current government. Now it becomes clear that nothing less is true. Witness to this is the impressive package of legislative measures already proposed by the government and approved by Parliament during this legislature. We also see this from the record yield, which is now considerably higher than that of previous governments. The element we are discussing today also bears witness to this. We do not wait until it is too late, but we act and act proactively and effectively. I would therefore like to congratulate our people on this on the ground once again, to wish them every success in the further handling of this matter and in the testimony in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u41	Minister, my question is more a request for information than a genuine inquiry. Indeed, a number of elements emerging from the press this morning indicate that there may be difficulties at the level of the European Commission (EU). In fact, the Minister of Finance reacted. It's good that he can be with us to hear the few words I'm going to make. However, regardless of what appears to be a flotation of information, we have always told you that there seems to be more than a doubt on the EC side as to how you conduct the budget work. The EC has, each time, noted that there is still a problem in estimating the expected performance of the new tax measures you advocated. This was the case, in particular, for the security account tax, also for the Cayman tax, for the way in which you accounted for the estimates of advance payments. In short, it pointed to a number of difficulties in estimating tax revenues. Moreover, it did not fail to point to the delay in the absorption of the structural deficit such as that on the debt-debt of the public debt. Madam Minister, we would like to know exactly what is happening at the moment when we are talking about contacts with the EC, considering, of course - and I say it from the outset so as not to hear you say it yourself in advance - that we do not adhere to all the revenues prescribed by the EC. Our views differ, indeed, in this respect. The facts are the facts! And the fact that you didn't reach balance in 2018 is one. And the fact that you do not give up, according to the pace desired by the EC is another. And finally, the successive reports from the EC which point to methodological and methodological problems simply in the estimation of tax revenues, Madam Minister, are yet another. We therefore wish to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u42	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the tone has changed following a statement by the Minister of Finance saying that the Commission's remarks were ridiculous. You, Mr. Laaoouej, served as a sounding board for press statements. As usual, you have relayed the disaster, a catastrophe that never happens every time. Work has not yet begun. The Minister tabled the draft budget on the table, forwarded it to the Commission, and we are already doing a lot of work, when we have not yet started the work and, most importantly, the Commission has not yet indicated or written its opinion. Once again, we are in the "tax disaster" sort of policy-fiction, and we are quite beside the question. Each year, the results are much better than announced. You're talking about hours of appreciation. The deficit was divided by three. Debt is in a downward spiral. Minister, my question is the same as that of my colleague. Could you inform us about contacts with the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Piedboeuf, like you, I see a change of tone. This morning, Mr Laaouej's press release referred to the total failure of the federal budget to meet the requirements of the European Commission. And then, as we move on, we realize that the European Commission has not expressed its views on this subject at all. She herself publicly dedicated it by press release. The European Commission has not yet sent us any document. In addition, we have many bilateral contacts with the European Commission. As you know, we want to work hand in hand with this important institution. According to the contacts we have, there is no indication of a problem, or even of a realignment of the budget. On the contrary! I would also remind you that the European Commission, in its analysis, takes account of budgetary consolidation as such, but also of the economic situation in Belgium as a whole, and in particular of the structural reforms that we are carrying out. The European Commission not only welcomes our reforms, but is not the only one. Belgium is considered the most "top reformer" country by the OECD. The European Commission's analysis also takes account of the previous situation. We have divided the deficit by three and, finally, we have started a downward trend in debt. I do not prejudge what the general analysis of the European Commission will be, but I know that it is aware of the progress made and the reforms that we have put in place. I am glad to see that the apocalyptic comments are no longer relevant this afternoon, unlike this morning. I hope that this will set the tone for a constructive discussion in our discussions on the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u44	Minister, MP Piedboeuf, I am not taking a word from what I said this morning in Belga. Indeed, for four years now, we have constantly told you that you are taking a wrong path in the field of economic and budgetary policy. We keep telling you that the return effects of your tax shift are not there, and that's why we still need to find $8 billion over the next two years, when you have to reach balance this year. On the other hand, when the Minister of Finance presents us with a new measure, the performance of his revenues is systematically misestimated. This is true of the security account tax, the Cayman tax and a number of other measures. It took four years to finally have a plan to combat tax fraud. Let us recall the lost year with Mrs. Sleurs. As far as the Panama Papers report is concerned, the majority has decided to water down the experts' report and it is an understatement. Madam Minister, failure is here! I said a complete failure! I forgot to add something, and it's the most important thing. You have, from the beginning, created a climate of distrust with households, through index jumps, VAT on electricity, cuts in public services and an increase in the price of medicines. How do you want these economic agents that are important to our economy, households, to have confidence in you when they are subjected to such a truncheon? The real problem is there! That is what has held back the resumption of the recovery, and that is why, in particular, your budgetary problem, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u45	Madam Minister, I note that Mr Laaouej cannot help but fall back into his own way. He had calmed down at first, but he is still falling back on his side, like Mr Di Rupo last week, but with a little more verve, he must be recognized. Last week, it was a little soft. The Minister of Finance said that his remarks were ridiculous. I think Mr Juncker confirmed that there was no problem with Belgium. In this case, Mr Laaouej, we are achieving the objectives and continuing fiscal consolidation while maximizing economic activity. Madam Minister, thank you for your comments. We are going to work calmly, since Mr Laaouej had calmed down at the beginning of his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u46	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on my very first topical question in this House, I will address a subject that is of great interest to me: mobility and, more particularly, the combination of train and bicycle. Coming from Liège this morning, I took the train with my bike. In Belgium, traffic jams are an ever-increasing reality. We've never spent so much time in the queues. The weather signals are in the red. There is an urgent need to accelerate the transition. To achieve this, modern mobility must happen today, through the modernisation of the SNCB and an ambitious cycling policy. But what do we learn this week? That the SNCB no longer wants to take its bike on trains during rush hours. We all agree that punctuality is a problem for SNCB. The commuters can testify to this. But do we really have to put the burden of this punctuality deficit on the users? There are more urgent measures to be taken than to ban bicycles during peak hours: for example, the fight against cable theft, intelligent organisation of passenger entrances and exits, etc. For us, it is very clear that this decision on bicycles must be immediately suspended and a consultation organised with the associations of cyclists and commuters. Minister, as the appropriate minister, what do you intend to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, congratulate Mrs Schlitz on her Mayden speech!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is apparently news day today. Minister, we learn from the press that non-foldable bicycles will soon no longer be allowed on trains in rush hours. This decision or proposal by SNCB raises questions. It's a surprise, a bad signal for smooth and intermodal mobility. It is also a bad blow for all users who have already become accustomed to using several means of transport. Today, how many people could be affected by such a measure, by this SNCB ban? Is this not a sign that there are not enough trains in rush hours at present? The 2008-2012 management contract, still current, stipulates that SNCB wants to promote the transport of bicycles in adapted cars. However, I note that, by this measure proposed by SNCB, one of the tasks set out in the management contract is no longer respected at all. Minister, as the appropriate minister, do you endorse this direction? Do you intend to include these principles of intermodality in the new management contract that is still under negotiation? I take this opportunity to ask you when this one will be tied up and introduced. I understand that there is always a choice, an arbitration to be made between allowing access to trains to as many people as possible and valuing the soft mobility. However, if, for lack of an alternative solution, SNCB was obliged to maintain this decision, I would hope that it would be more than temporary and that some "smart" solutions would be applied, for example by organising an alternation between suitable and unsuitable vehicles, accompanied by good information both on the SNCB platform and on the website, so that the traveller knows which trains are available to non-foldable bicycles. Finally, it seems to me very urgent to have a global analysis on the question of inter- or multi-modality. New vehicles, including M7, must be adapted to both bicycles and strollers. I hope you can confirm that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to congratulate Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet on her Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last two years I have continuously deployed energy to promote the development of each link in the mobility chain and, in particular, to strengthen the interfaces between modes of travel. The case of bicycles is illustrative because the government has approved the SNCB investment plan, which places particular emphasis on the reception of bicycles at the station with an increase in the parking space for bicycles which is in line with the objective of the 50,000 additional places for bicycles by 2025. In addition, the investment plan also provides for the acquisition of new M7 trainsets, which, like the Desiros and the M6, will have multifunctional compartments in which it is easier to carry your bike. As far as the bicycle policy on board trains is concerned, I have discovered, like you, SNCB's intentions through the press. I do not share the proposed strategy for peak hours to generalize the ban on conventional bicycles, on trains, on all lines, or the method of doing so, since SNCB stated that the proposed measure did not concern folding bicycles. Before making a decision, I asked SNCB to document the problems it faces, to carry out a detailed line-by-line analysis, to propose possible measures where difficulties exist, and to consult the associations of bicycle users and commuters. Only after these four steps can a strategy be defined, communicated and implemented. Following my very recent contacts with SNCB on the subject, I understood that the consultation with the Users' Committee, in which the cyclists' associations are represented, will continue. However, I have not received any information on the extent of the problems. I asked for them. I will not accept that a general solution applied to all trains in peak hours and on all lines be put in place if problems arise only on certain advanced trains with a high occupancy rate. Mrs. Goffinet, you stopped me on cable thefts. I recall that an organized gang of 20 people was arrested. Over the past two or three days, no cables have been stolen. An incident was checked this morning; it is related to a flight that took place a week ago but was only identified this morning. It is hoped that the collaboration between the Mobility and Transport FPS, the SNCB and my colleague from Justice will have been able to defeat this gang of criminals, which has impacted, since June, about a million passengers a week, reaching punctuality in the heart on main lines such as Brussels-Liège, Brussels-Namur, Brussels-Mons and on other lines of lesser importance but essential for travellers. That's what I could tell you. Congratulations on your first two interventions!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am obviously pleased to learn that action has been taken on cable theft issues. I am also very pleased to know that you share our view on this measure to ban bicycles on trains at peak times. The various information you have requested from SNCB seems to me to be the right one, namely precise information on the problems encountered and, perhaps, a prioritisation of punctuality priorities. Indeed, these punctuality problems at SNCB are a huge challenge that we can turn into an opportunity to modernise SNCB. The Belgian company is currently experiencing unprecedented problems in terms of mobility. We're stuck on the roads every hour of the day. Climate problems must no longer be recalled. SNCB and its modernisation are really some of the solutions to these problems. I really encourage you to take advantage of this opportunity to modernize SNCB. Of course, we support your proposal to consult with commuters' and cyclists' associations. We therefore remain at your full disposal in order to make progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u52	Minister, thank you for your enthusiasm for smooth mobility and, in particular, cycling. However, I regret that you have been informed only by the press. I hope that you will urge SNCB to fulfil the conditions set out in the management contract and that smooth mobility and intermodality be included in the one we are waiting for. I have to add a little bit. In referring to your proposal for consultation, you promised a general and ad hoc analysis of the problems. I hope that SNCB will eventually accept bicycles everywhere, and not only in some places.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u53	Mr President, Minister, too many Belgians are starving. As many as 157 000 Belgians have to resort to food aid. Without food aid, these people, including families with children, would be starving. That should not be the case in a prosperous country like ours. We have a very good system of social security, we have social assistance that provides a safety net, yet some people, despite all our facilities, still slip through the loopholes of the network. Some of them are temporarily suspended, others are on a debt mountain or are homeless, and that is why they must, of course against their will, beg and ask for food packages. Fortunately, there are organisations that help these people with the distribution of food and other emergency goods. These organisations can call on our country, which in turn calls on a European fund to do so. In six years' time, we received more than EUR 88 million from the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived. With that money, the PPS Social Integration buys food that is then distributed through the nine food banks to the hundreds of organisations active in our country to bring the food packages to the people together with the OCMW's and charitable organisations. However, these organisations are calling the alarm bell. I had already put a question on this last week, but because of the media attention to the matter, I am now asking my question in this plenary session. Things have been going wrong since 2016, but now the situation is becoming even more difficult. There are two major problems. The first problem is that there are often delays: the orders of the organisations are often delivered only a year later. Products ordered in 2017, for example, were only delivered in 2018. A second problem is that not everything that is ordered is delivered. Only half of the order was delivered. That is an average because when one looks at the products themselves, one sees a lot of differences. If it is calculated in proportion to the number of labourers, then only 8% of the coffee and spaghetti were delivered and only 5% of the cream cheese.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u54	Please come to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u55	Due to the delay and incomplete delivery, the food banks become empty and people who are already struggling and who are passing by for a food package will soon be sent away empty-handed. Of course you can't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u56	Mrs Lanjri, I apologize, but you must ask your questions now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u57	Minister, I have two questions. First, why are there delays in the PPS Social Integration? How come it's going to go wrong? What are the causes? Secondly, why is only part of the products delivered? I have given you a few examples, but these are more products. Why is that? What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u58	Mrs Lanjri, your question was a little too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u59	Mr President, Minister, yesterday, 17 October, was the World Day of Resistance against Extreme Poverty. On that occasion I met a lot of people who voluntarily support and help people in difficulty in Genk, in the province of Limburg. However, your government can also do something. Your government has made certain tax increases, such as VAT on electricity. This means that more and more people are having financial difficulties and are not getting around by the end of the month. Those who have financial difficulties and cannot afford to pay for their food can go to the food banks. The food banks help them and ensure that they can eat. Under your government alone, the number of people who have to go to the food banks has increased by 20%. Mrs Lanjri has just said that 157 000 families have to visit the food banks today because they cannot afford their food. The Vincentius Association in Genk has raised the alarm, saying that there is not enough milk, bread, rice and pasta to help the families out of need. The question is why. I read in the press that you said there was a delay in the tenders. Mr Lanjri said just now, the only thing this government had to do was order food in good time. After all, the budget was already there. However, you have only decided to order in June 2018, being six months later. I have here the decision of the Council of Ministers, which states the date of 4 June 2018. So only six months later did you pass on the order. Mr Secretary, why have you waited so long to make this decision? Perhaps the most important question is to know what you will do now to ensure that the food banks have enough food to cover that period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Kitir, thank you for these important questions. Like you, I attach great importance to the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived. It contributes to the support we must give to people in poverty, by providing them with a varied and balanced diet. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the EUR 88 million do not come exclusively from the EU. For the period 2014-2020, €74.8 million comes effectively from European funding. This envelope had to be supplemented by EUR 11 million by Belgium. However, we have gone beyond our commitment and have not released EUR 11 million but EUR 14 million, because we are aware that demand is increasing. The latest products of the 2017 campaign were delivered. Some deliveries are still in progress, such as the hygiene kits. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the 2018 campaign should only start on 1 January 2019. At federal level, therefore, there is no delay in terms of food supply. As far as the 2018 campaign is concerned, you know that the purchase of food is done through European tenders that are strictly regulated. A first contract was launched in July and it was found that the tenders submitted by the tenderers were inadmissible. I submitted a new government contract to the government, which was launched from September. I can assure you that the Social Integration PPS will do everything in its power to complete the administrative procedure as soon as possible. I have asked my administration to examine the possibilities of extending the current mandate so that this period is fully covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u61	Mr Minister, in the context of the European call for tenders, you found that the tenders did not meet the criteria. This must certainly be avoided in the future and future procurement must be subject to clear guidelines. It is also necessary to examine the possibility of shortening the deadline. The deliveries following the current tenders will not be delivered until next year. Another problem is that not everything that has been asked is delivered. I can give you the list of organizations that don't get most of it. That's still a problem. Mrs Kitir, you just said that the number of people going to a food bank has increased by 20%. I have also given figures, and they are indeed figures that we should not be proud of. However, you must give the full figures. You should also indicate that, unfortunately, between 1997 and 2017, so in a period of 20 years, the figures have doubled. Well, your party was also part of the government at that time. Every family that asks for a food package is one too many. We must dare to say that. The phenomenon can certainly also have to do with the fact that more awareness is given to the food banks. Now we must ensure that they function and that needy people do not go home empty-handed. After all, it is a matter of emergency aid. It is a disgrace, moreover, that we should give such emergency aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u62	You must dare, Mrs Lanjri! You come here with figures, while people in poverty can't even get food packages, because the government has failed to place the order on time. And then you come here with numbers magic! Minister, you yourself admitted in your reply that the food for 2018 was ordered in July. Well, before 2017, the order was passed on in March. If you had passed the order on in time, you would not be struggling with delays and then the needy people today would have been given their food package without any problems. Minister, Mrs Lanjri, I do not think it is right for you to come here with figures, while needy people do not get food.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u63	Mrs. Kitir, your verdict is out of order! Of course, I think this is a problem; why else would I have tabled this question last week? I raised this issue here last week. You have agreed to the question, and that is good, because it is indeed a serious problem. Neither the majority nor the opposition should go into that: there is a problem, and we are entitled to raise it. However, you may not say...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u64	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u65	You started with those numbers! I just gave the figures in the global context. Dare to admit it too... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u66	Mrs Lanjri, you have made your point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u67	That concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u68	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u69	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report, but I will speak shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u70	Thank you, Mr. Thiéry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft before us contains a number of provisions on health care. These are not only technical provisions but also extremely important provisions for the patient and the provider. I will highlight some important elements in relation to some of the sector's expectations. I will start with the provisions that directly concern pharmacists. There are legislative changes that promote pharmaceutical care. This is a highly anticipated development in the sector. The gradual orientation of a remuneration for pharmaceutical care for a patient rather than for the mere delivery of a product was indeed expected. It finally concretizes a measure of the "pharma" pact. This development also recognizes the active role of pharmacists in the health care system. Pharmacists have always claimed to be a little put on the side. Here, we are only strengthening their active role. Furthermore, the introduction of the budget line was also a demand from the sector. It is therefore the budgetary accountability of the sector itself. There are amendments to the distribution law. The current distribution law has shown some shortcomings, including transfers which have led to a great deal of recourse on the part of pharmacists. The sector was therefore faced with endless procedures in certain transfers. With these proposed changes, we will establish new criteria taking into account demographic and geographical aspects in order to arrive at clear distribution criteria, which cannot be subject to interpretation. We believe that this approach is extremely rational. More importantly, I would point out that in the course of the discussions, we found that these provisions would not prejudice small structures. This concern is therefore no longer appropriate. The changes will make it easier to transfer pharmacies in terms of speed of procedure, which was a major challenge. The amendments are supported by the Belgian Association of Pharmacists, which welcomes these provisions. I would like to thank the Minister for all the proposals she makes in consultation with the sectors concerned. It is necessary to report it. For providers, in general, we can point to Articles 21 and 22, which aim to establish a system of quality promotion throughout the sector. For example, physiotherapists were in demand. This is a considerable step forward. I think that everyone in committee agreed on the adaptation of the legal basis, through Articles 27 and 29, with a view to extending to all providers the benefit of certain social benefits for the purpose of establishing a supplementary pension. There was a great discussion about that. It was extremely important to review the legal basis. We were quite aware of that. It was also a request from the medico-mut. This also responds to a demand from claimants who continue to work after the pension age, which is becoming increasingly common, and who will be able to receive a premium instead of a social status. As for the resources or positive measures for the patient, there is the legal basis for the eAttest, which replaces the paper certificate with an electronic certificate. It will lead to significant administrative simplification and allow patients to have a simple and automatic refund. It was really a request from the patients. The system provided for here will make it easier for them to do so. There are a lot of benefits for the patient in this context: no specific steps to be reimbursed; a faster refund; no risk of losing the certificates or letting the two-year delay pass. All of this is in the patient's favor. A relatively important step forward is the granting of the maximum amount to be billed, since revenues from the second year preceding the application will be taken into account, rather than the third year. The maximum amount to be charged may therefore be granted more quickly to persons entitled to receive it. Finally, I note the legal basis for the electronic prescription. I know that there has been a lot of debate about this, because some doctors, perhaps of a certain age, felt wrong about the problem. It was recalled that, at this stage in any case, the system remained optional, particularly in view of the numerous failures of the eHealth system. I think the older doctors I've been talking about, or the doctors who visit home or nursing homes, will only be happy with this decision. These are the various comments I wanted to make briefly. Minister, I think this bill is a step forward. We are pleased that it can be voted on today. We will of course support you, as I pointed out in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u72	Mr President, I will talk about my bench because I will be relatively brief. I did not wish to speak initially, but I took the initiative to table two amendments that try to address some of our concerns. We have abstained on this text in committee and will also abstain in plenary. In our view, elements are still problematic. First of all, I am thinking of the ban on the practice of paying third parties in the event of abuse by the healthcare provider. This is not a new measure, but we believe that it is primarily harmful to the patient, who has no knowledge of the situation before consulting his or her claimant. You told us that the patient would ultimately be reimbursed by his mutual, but the opposite would be a pity. I still think we're dealing with a lack of knowledge of reality. Some people do not have the opportunity to advance the full amount of their consultation or caregiving. That is why, Mr President, I have re-tabled an amendment to make the paying third party compulsory for all health care benefits. My group considers it inconceivable that patients, still today, post-care, or even give up, because they do not know how to advance the necessary amounts. I would also like to point out that, under the previous legislature, it had been decided to make the third-party fee compulsory for MDBs and chronically ill persons for all health benefits. This government has come back to this decision. The obligation of the paying third party was finally introduced only among the general practitioners, and only for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention. In order to ensure financial accessibility of care for all, it is now necessary to take an additional step so that the paying third party becomes compulsory for all and this for the main health benefits. The implementation of e-invoicing and the monitoring of health care services should make it possible to achieve this in good conditions while avoiding possible abuse. I conclude with some difficulties that the project still poses to us. Among these is the "possibility of information" that we read in the text. In my opinion, it is more advertising. You will now allow advertising about the practice of care professionals, without supervision, without precise beacons, with the consequences that can be imagined for patients. I am also thinking of the amendments to the statute of the AFMPS, but also of the unanswered questions concerning the legislation of clinical trials. As I have done in committee, I have also tabled an amendment concerning the electronic prescription and the authentic source, so that it is not limited to medicinal products alone but is extended to other health products, so that prescribers can prescribe other health products through the same procedure as they will use for medicinal products. This would facilitate the work of physicians and ensure comprehensive treatment for patients. I think that responds to a request from the field. Mr President, I have finished presenting my amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u73	Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you for this draft. There are a lot of important positive elements in the design. Allow me to explain some important clips for CD&V. A first important point is a legal basis for the reimbursement of psychological care. A few years ago, with the law on the recognition of care professions, namely clinical psychologists and psychotherapy, we took a first step. A second important step is now being taken with the reimbursement of psychological care. In the context of easy access to psychological care, we can only welcome this step. A second important element is the anti-fraud measures, which we can only welcome. You have already shown in other files that you are willing to take steps in this regard. People who commit fraud in a care profession or in a care category today are not numerous, but we see that they are always doing a great deal of harm to a very large group of people who are doing well. In this sense, we consider these measures to be positive. It is also very specific about the application of the third party payment system or its fraudulent application. The draft provides for the imposition of a temporary ban. That too is a good thing. A third focus for us is all that has to do with quality. A system for quality promotion among the physicists is being developed. We have a very good health care. Today, we are at the forefront of the OECD ranking in terms of accessibility. However, we know that we must continue to work on quality if we are to improve that ranking. Any new measure that ensures that a quality test - here it is linked to a financial incentive, including for physicists - is therefore a very good initiative for us. A fourth emphasis is the maximum invoice. The maximum invoicing was previously calculated on the income of three years ago, which caused problems, as changes in the income situation of people can occur very quickly. The deadline has now been set at two years. We would have liked it to be even shorter, but we can understand it. Of course, it also has to do with taxation and the data available for a fiscal year. It is a very good thing that the two-year deadline has been set to make resource research fairer and more social. I come to one final point. There are a lot of pharmacists in the design. You have agreed a multi-annual framework with the pharmacists, Madam Secretary. There's a lot of good business in that. Some elements are also being implemented. For us, it is extremely important that the pharmacist be confirmed within the first line as a crucial player, especially in terms of patient prevention or guidance. The award of a fee for pharmaceutical care is a necessary recognition of this link in our healthcare system. We also welcome the pharmacies' response within the framework of partial budgetary targets. The new distribution law is also contained in this bill. This isn't unimportant. A new instrument has long been in demand. People felt the need for changes. There is currently a very large fragmentation and we therefore believe that the choices made here, namely scaling up and mergers, are moving in the right direction. Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you for this bill. There are a lot of good things in this for us. We shall therefore be happy to approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u74	Mr. Speaker, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill was announced as an urgent matter. It was so much so that it was postponed. That is the proof, Mr. Chairman, that the emergencies decreed by the government are very relative. Sometimes "bidon" reasons are used to try to justify them. Madam Minister, you can note what you want, but it was your government and your majority who decided that this emergency was no longer really one, since it was postponed. It was an opportunity to say it. You have indeed taken the very bad habit of turning all your projects into urgent texts. Second, this bill with various provisions, which is very thick, more than 600 pages long, deals with a little bit of everything. However, some topics such as pharmaceutical care would have required a different approach and, at the very least, a specific bill. Moreover, this project has neither tail nor head: it is a package of many things. However, that is not what bothers me the most. In committee, I have asked you three times about the nature of the consultations with health actors. First of all, you didn't answer me. Then you said to me, "Yes, yes, yes, of course, I consulted with everyone involved in the project." I had drawn up a list of them. Then, Madam Minister, I made my contacts and I was able to see, for example, that the Order of Veterinarians and the Conseil régional francophone des médecins vétérinaires had not been consulted in any way. They were not even aware of this bill or the first word about it. I sent them the text. Do you find that normal? No, for my part, I believe that this is totally unacceptable, especially since in committee you yourself have certified that all the actors have been consulted. So that's completely wrong! In other respects, as far as certain medical unions are concerned, it is the same, you have not consulted them, and certain provisions have appeared to them only when I have forwarded the text to them. I believe, Madam Minister, that this is a famous governance problem with a concertation that I knew was on the front. In this case, you go a step further by certifying that you have conducted a consultation, whereas, as evidence to support it, this is not the case, at least not with all the actors involved in this bill containing various provisions. In this bill of a little bit of everything, there are positive measures that I have already pointed out in committee, including some of the measures concerning the pharmaceutical pact (except for certain points on which I will come back in a moment), the budgetary framework for pharmacists, the promotion of quality... These are points that I can point out as positive measures. In addition to these, I have a number of problems. Some extremely important and others which, in my view, provide insufficient guarantees in relation to the commitments which have been made to certain health actors, in particular, or which were indispensable in relation to ensuring the quality of patient care. I shall focus on each other, probably in a non-exhaustive manner, but probably on those that seem to me to be the most important, the aim being not to start again here the debate as we did in committee. I made the mistake of not asking for a second reading. I believed you when you said you guaranteed the concertation. After I made my contacts, I realized that was not true. It was then with regret that I realized that I should have asked for a second reading. I will start with the pharmaceutical sector, first of all with regard to the law on the distribution of pharmacies. There is a completely unacceptable situation in terms of procedure - I have already asked you through oral questions - since more than 200 applications for transfer of pharmacies are blocked and without any efficiency. The procedures are being changed and I hope that they will lead to a much more effective path, but I continue to argue that there is a concrete legal deadline in the bill - three months seems to me a reasonable time This is an amendment for which I had argued in committee. You didn't want it, and you didn't want it without any explanation. Today, some have waited for long months, if not a year, for no valid reason. The fact that no longer guaranteeing a deadline in the law will allow tomorrow all possible slippages without taking into account the views of the beneficiaries, namely the pharmacists. What is still a problem for me is the way in which you decide to authorise the exercise of certain pharmaceutical activities in extra muros: individual medical preparation, the online sale of medicines not subject to prescription. Since my plea in committee, I've been in contact with pharmacists. I'm in touch with those who run small compendias. You introduced your bill as being to their advantage. In seeking the motivations for your options regarding extra-mural activities, I found that this law should have been called the Newpharma law. For an operator, now bought by Colruyt, who is not a rural or semi-rural area, we are moving away from anything that can improve the patient's accompaniment quality. More worrying: there are no beacons in this project. However, there should be strict guarantees, in particular that these extra-mural activities are subject to the same rules and controls as those laid down for the activities carried out within the cadastral parcel, i.e. the official to which the exploitation authorisation was granted. That's not the case! You choose, through this system of law which I will call the Newpharma law, you decide, Madam Minister, to penalize clearly and strongly the officiaries and to favour all online devices. This is, in my view, a real step backwards for the officiaries. After having had a lot of contacts in the field, I can tell you that this observation is shared and assure you that the impacts of the device you have put in place will be penalizing. Also know that a large part of the sector is appalled by the decision you have made! I come back, therefore, with the amendment that I tabled in committee which provides – first and foremost, here, to ensure the quality and interest of the patient – for these activities to be subject to the same rules, to the same controls, to the same requirements, regardless of where the activity of this pharmacy is carried out. Another point concerns me in this bill with various provisions: the one relating to tobacco. What a chill on the part of the majority of governments in the area of tobacco control! We're constantly going back to that. You have major levers. To make progress in this area, you have the support of the health actors. You benefit from the support of the National Tobacco Control Consortium Group, which is truly at the forefront of tobacco control. But you have not taken, so to speak, any action. However, this would not have burdened the budget. It was just a matter of political will and courage. Madam Minister, while Belgium, having ratified the provisions of the World Health Organisation, has now committed itself ten years ago to abolish all tobacco advertising, whereas, for several years now, it has been urgent – you should have shown courage – to remove any possibility of escaping this ban on tobacco advertising, you dare come here with a bill containing various provisions with a measure that reduces the penalties of those who do not comply with that ban. I find this singularly distressing. In my view, this is clearly the economic choice against the choice of patient health. Given the number of annual premature deaths due to tobacco and the number of cancers related to tobacco, I can only deplore the choice that your majority made on this issue. I have therefore re-tabled an amendment to finally rule out the mechanisms that now make it possible to avoid the ban on tobacco advertising. I now turn to the providers, the mandatory electronic prescription (e-Attest) and the harmonization of social statutes. Let's start with the mandatory electronic prescription (e-Attest). The computer bugs, Minister, have never been as numerous as they are today. They're permanent. It's factual. I can't imagine for a moment that you don't recognize it and it's obviously your responsibility. However, the public authority is obliged to use these electronic devices without itself being able to ensure that the system works and is efficient. Since the beginning of the legislature, you have had problems. The problem of software for nurses and especially home nurses is remembered. You will also remember problems with PARIS software. You will remember the bugs that remain permanent today both from the PARIS app and from eHealth. In fact, very little is moving in this regard. Minister, you have been constantly being asked about this for several years. I have seen the recent attempt to use an outside operator. It's always easier. It doesn't matter who's responsible. You're a minister. The role and responsibility of the public authority, from the moment it imposes electronic devices, is to ensure that they are effective and that there are no constant bugs, such as those experienced by nurses (especially at home) and doctors, which ultimately directly penalize their work with patients, but which also directly penalize patients. Still on the electronic prescription, I confess that I have not understood at all how you persist in not forcing software operators – that's how I'm going to name them – to integrate all health products. Minister, it is now clear to me from the field that software vendors are changing the way health products are integrated into electronic prescription software. If you simply write it in the law, these software vendors would no longer be able to ask as they do today for financial surpluses and extra costs. I find this indecent and I do not understand why your majority did not want to move a minimum of the lines about it. I have two assumptions about that. Either you're going to do it in a second phase. In this case, it is a pity to have even more corrective measures in so-called laws of various provisions. Either you don't want to do it, but if that's the case, then you'll have to explain to me why you prefer the interests of software vendors so much. Who is now piloting the software vendor platform, Minister? I'm gonna be a little confrontational, 'cause I wish at some point the lines would move. If I'm not mistaken, it's one of your former collaborators who is now leading the software vendor platform. Therefore, it would be possible and easy for you to have contact so that, from this platform, there is an obligation to integrate health products into these electronic prescription software without any extra cost to the health actors or, conversely - and this guarantees things in a very simple way - you put into the law the provision, alongside medicines, of health products in these software. It's not that complicated. It's very simple from a legal point of view. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. One of my colleagues also did so in committee. Access to the authentic source for health products must be made compulsory by law. It's something extremely simple, because it's common sense. However, in your bill, as it is drafted, you continue to favour economic interests at the expense of the interests of the patient and health care providers. With regard to the harmonization of social statutes, I would like to take this opportunity to plead, Madam Minister, that medical specialists should not be forgotten. I would point out that in terms of social status, they are nowhere. As far as the premium for pensioners' health care providers is concerned, you know that it was the doctors themselves who had argued that the social status of active pensioners should be maintained in the form of a premium of an equivalent amount. This is reflected in the law today. But a bill containing various provisions is a government bill. Mr. Minister of Finance, I would like to take advantage of your presence and address you. For three years now, the Minister of Health has promised this famous social status, this bonus for active pensioners! However, there is a problem of tax status. You belong to the same government. You have validated in this government this bill that contains various provisions. Madam Minister of Health, you have either forgotten to ensure consistency with your colleague the Minister of Finance, to settle once and for all the tax status of this premium. It is still not fixed, Mr. Minister of Finance. The Minister said that this was not within her jurisdiction, but within the Minister of Finance's. You're here today. You're part of the same government. You have all validated this bill. Your majority wanted to make it pass quickly, well done. When are we going to have a tax status on this premium? If I'm not mistaken, Mr. De Cock has recently sent a letter to the Minister of Finance. It's still crazy that, in a government, we don't know how to arrange between ministers for effective answers. What you do on the one hand, is a problem on the other, in terms of tax status. Frankly, I think it's a lack of consideration and respect for doctors. It's really playing with their feet. And it's a problem of bad governance. It would be a pure and harsh decision of the minister. Is tax status managed? All right? Fifteen days ago, he still wasn't. I'm waiting to see if it's really settled. By asking for it for three years, we hope that you will resolve this situation. As far as the veterinarians are concerned, you certified us that they had been agreed. Neither the Ordre des vétérinaires – Conseil régional francophone – nor the Ordre vétérinaire global were consulted on antimicrobial resistance and veterinary medicine. You are planning a device that is particularly challenging. You put in place the fact that the breeder validates the data encoded by the veterinarian. It's kind of like asking the patient to validate the electronic file encoded by the doctor! It's pretty special. But you go further as validation by the breeder of the data encoded by the veterinarian is necessary to prove its validity. It is a form of slapping to the professionalism of veterinarians and their integrity. It's like the vet was considered to have been able to encode anything. I would remind you that they are subject to ethics. It is as if the breeder had to control the veterinarian, who is regarded a priori as dishonest. When you say it is Europe, I absolutely disagree with you. Of course, Europe – and rightly so – wants to make progress on the problem of antibiotic resistance and its misuse, including in animals, but there is another thing to consider and to make clear in the law that breeders will actually have to control the data encoded by the veterinarian. The pompon is to have said that they had been consulted! They have not been consulted in any way! They didn't know the slightest word of this text, I sent it to them! They told me how much they were going to put this topic on the table at a scheduled meeting with Minister Ducrame on another subject. It was last week. Minister Ducrame is absent. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will have the information on this subject and that you will tell us a little more today. As far as the promoters of these clinics are concerned, I have intervened in committee. The wording of the bill carries the risk that the abolition of compensation will not be applied uniformly. In any case, when I had pleaded in time non-suspecto – at the time you introduced the original bill – that non-commercial promoters could benefit from this exemption, you had rejected my proposal. Now you're taking a small step. It is nevertheless a pity that this possibility was not included in the original text. As regards the obligation on the doctor not to use the system of the paying third party, on principle, I am in favour of it. On the other hand, I repeat here, it seems to me that it is the patient who could be harmed by this device, not because he would not be informed of the sanction – which does not pose a problem to me – but because he will not be harmed by the doctor's prohibition of being able to appeal to the paying third party. I have therefore argued in favour of posting information in the waiting room, as is the case, for example, with regard to the status of a doctor with or without agreement – including partially. I defended the idea that the doctor should, in this case, not write that he was sanctioned – since no final decision has been made on this subject, since it is a question of suspicion – but although it is posted in his waiting room that he can no longer resort to the paying third party. This information seems indispensable to the patient. I still have a subject to discuss, on which I will come back as often as possible. When we are working on a bill with various provisions, we obviously have a lot to do with it. Last week you were absent, Madam Minister, but you know that during the discussions on the State of Union, I discussed with the Prime Minister how Belgium assigns the INAMI numbers to doctors and dentists who have trained at a European university without any restrictions or quotas. I have long argued against this discrimination against our young doctors and dentists, who are being imposed a restrictive quota. For the twentieth or thirtieth time, I therefore plead for the establishment of a quota for foreign practitioners, accompanied by a quality control of studies and internships, and for the knowledge of one of our national languages. You've always closed the door to this proposal. Last week, for the first time, the Prime Minister was open. I have offered to work legally. I have already introduced a bill for a long time. I have already had your majority vote on a number of amendments to the principle of this quota. I re-introduce them once again as part of the review of this bill with various provisions. It is disrespectful and indecent for young Belgian practitioners to continue in a system such as the one under way. It is all the more urgent that President Macron - as Prime Minister Charles Michel continues to put forward - has just decided to change the French government model by abolishing all quotas for the French. He found, in the same way as here, that there was discrimination of the French vis-à-vis European foreigners. Two things one. Either you persist in saying that you want quotas for our young Belgians. If that is the case, it is logical and normal that there should also be, with a check on the quality and knowledge of a national language, for doctors and dentists who have trained at a foreign European university. Either you consider that they can all come, and therefore your argument in favour of quotas to ensure the quality of health care does not hold the road for a second. In this case, neither can these quotas apply to our young Belgians. It's common sense and logic. The current system of discrimination against our young people is totally unacceptable. I therefore put back to the majority the same amendments cast into the concrete, allowing the introduction of quotas for doctors and dentists trained at a foreign European university. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u75	Mr President, the law on various provisions contains a lot of technical provisions which I will not go into as comprehensively as the previous speaker. I will mention a few things which are important to our group and which we would like to emphasise. For the IVDs, In Vitro Diagnostics, a basis is laid for the refund. We had already asked this in committee. The Minister had promised to look into it and it is now in the present bill. We are very pleased with that. Our group has already laid the foundations for Jan Vercammen's work for the distribution law. That's what the bill says today. We can only welcome that. Steps are also being taken to further roll out our health care electronically, which means saving the system. We also welcome this and explicitly endorse it. I think everyone feels that we are sometimes very behind in this, partly because of the lack of action by the previous government. We are pleased that a catch-up is now being made here. The enormous paperwork that is going on with health care today and the associated costs are absolutely something that we must continue to work on. This law contains steps in this direction. There is also a provision on antibiotic use in animals. We have never laid down any rules. This is, of course, a shared competence with Minister Ducarme, which we make reservations about at the Royal Decree on this matter. We believe it is very important to take as many steps as possible to further rationalise antibiotic use, and certainly critical antibiotics, in animals. Here too, we welcome the fact that further steps are being taken in the registration process. I have already indicated in committee that we will continue to monitor the figures and see whether the measures will be effective. You have already mentioned figures in committee which show that the first steps taken have led to a reduction in the use of antibiotics in animals. We hope that this road will continue, including with regard to critical antibiotics. In my penultimate point, I come to pharmaceutical care. It is not unimportant that the new roles assigned to our caregivers should also be honoured. In this context, we see that a basis is laid in the pharmaceutical disciplines. Finally, we had already taken the necessary steps in Parliament, as Mr Nathalie Muylle has already said, on the reimbursement of clinical psychology. I also refer to the resolution by my colleague Renate Hufkens. We are pleased that a basis is now being laid for this and we hope that this will continue. This is a first step, for which a limited budget is available. We hope that it will not end there, but that it will be possible to extend the problem of obesity to include obesity, as we have already pointed out in committee. Since the draft law on various health provisions places important emphasis on matters of which we have already stressed the importance in committee, we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u76	Mr President, very briefly I would like to explain my amendment to this draft law. In Article 36 of the draft law, the Government intends to allow the use of English in the applications and assessment reports relating to the possible reimbursement of medicinal products, with a view to facilitating an international procedure, in particular in the context of the BeNeLuxA initiative. To this extent, we naturally think it logical that, in addition to the main national languages, the use of English can be allowed. However, this is not the case with the proposed scheme, as according to the scheme documents can be supplied only in English. The Standing Committee on Language Monitoring issued a very critical opinion on that scheme on 5 June 2018. I have included that passage in my amendment. The opinion states that the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring is convinced that documents drawn up purely in English do not provide sufficient guarantees that those documents can be sufficiently understood by all the intervening parties so that they can deal with those files with knowledge of the facts. I believe that this opinion should be taken seriously by the government, which is why it has not been taken into account, Madam Minister. We naturally believe that this should be done for reasons of principle alone. It is also clear, of course, that in the context of a responsible assessment of the documents, for which only English is now allowed, the documents should also be fully available in the main national languages. It seems to me in the interest of quality health care that the documents are also available in Dutch and French, hence our amendment. I hope, of course, that you will support this, so that we may be able to approve the draft before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u77	Is anyone else asking for the floor? If that is not the case, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u78	Mr President, I would like to thank Members of Parliament for their speech in plenary and in committee, where the same questions have actually been asked. I will therefore answer some of the questions, but also refer to the answers contained in the report. Mrs Pas, these are only texts that are exchanged in the context of international cooperation between five countries. In this context, it is normal that the language used for the texts is English, which does not allow our language legislation and is therefore a problem for the international cooperation we have set up, hence this application. Mr Frédéric, as far as the paying third party is concerned, measures are needed in cases of fraud and misuse. Two practical measures are possible: no longer apply the paying third party or immediately prohibit its use as soon as there is evidence of abuse. I know that some patients will be surprised by this measure, but it is necessary to avoid fraud or prevent it from going on. Mrs Fonck, the bill is urgent, as I said in the committee. It was introduced in June. But given the abundance of projects, each minister had to give priority to some of them. This project is important mainly for patients and this fact has been confirmed by various members of the Commission. They also said that the draft contains a number of articles for the benefit of patients. Many improvements are being made for the patients. As regards the consultation of the various actors, I am told that within the AFMPS, which is responsible for this matter, there have been six meetings. I obviously asked for the reports, even if you say something else. For the extra-mural pharmacies, I explained in committee that it was in the agreement that we reached with the pharmacies. This is in favour of small compendia because they can really work together to share the costs associated with individual drug formulations. It is also known that when very small compendia do not have the expertise in preparation - figures exist in this respect - quality is not always guaranteed. The measure is intended to improve collaboration between small agencies. There is also the fact that when you have to buy a robot and install it in the pharmacy itself, it is not always possible due to lack of space. This point is included in the multiannual framework with pharmacists. We will implement this agreement. As regards the procedure and the three months, I said that it would be completely reviewed. The notice of the Settlement Commission and delegation to the Minister will be removed. In fact, you asked me questions about why there were no meetings of this Commission more often. That's because there were too many sick or absent people and the meeting was always postponed. The new procedure provides for a public notice of inquiry, an analysis of the economic viability of the surrounding pharmacies, on the basis of objective criteria, and a right to be heard by the AFMPS. We believe that this is a much faster procedure than the current one, and that it will involve more opportunities for pharmacists in the area who want to react and be heard. Why leave the three months when the opinion of this siting committee has been removed in the procedure? Before that, it took the advice of the commission, then the minister had three months to decide, but these two levels are suspended, and you want to reintroduce the three months. On tobacco, I explained that an agreement had been reached within the government, and that I was implementing it like every party involved in this government agreement. Can we go further? Yes, but we will do it step by step. I'm not someone who's going to say no after making an agreement in the government. I'm loyal to the government. You may have another opinion, but I'm like that. I come to the tax status. This applies to pensioners who still have an activity after their pension and who receive premiums like other active doctors. It is true that they have to pay taxes. But every citizen here has to pay his taxes. It is not possible to tell them not to pay, and the Minister of Finance should not be attacked, because he must ensure that every citizen pays his taxes. We must not try to face each other. In this regard, we also agree within the government. Mrs Fonck, you always find it necessary to do something else or go further. Sometimes you think we're going too far. I think you're playing your part in the opposition, but you still have to think about the patients who will benefit from all the measures decided here. There are good measures among them. Mr President, I would like to refer to the long discussions and the many answers that can be found in the report. I also remember that Mrs Muylle and Mrs Van Camp find many good measures in the text, including the legal basis for the reimbursement of psychological care in the first line and more safety for the patient. Mrs. Van Camp, you've been asking for figures. I have given you the figures I have at my disposal. We are moving in the right direction with the one-health principle to reduce antibiotic use in humans and animals. It's a good thing you pulled the numbers and they're now known.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u79	Minister, I haven't learned much. I will not reply to you on a point-by-point basis because, while it is up to me to play my role as a member of the opposition, I am above all the relay and spokesperson of a whole series of actors on the ground. I will therefore explain to the veterinarians that this government which has absolutely not consulted them, which has not consulted the UPV...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u80	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u81	You consider that the AFMPS and the AFSCA are the representatives of the veterinarians. Don't you know what the UPV is? Don't you know what the Order of Veterinarians is? Do you know what the official bodies for consultation are? AFSCA is not the representative of the UPV; it is not the representative of the Order of Veterinarians. However, it is astounding to be faced with a government that swears that it consults and, in the end, receives the documents from the opposition via Parliament. It's never before seen! You should have said, Madam Minister, that you had not arranged a consultation. No, I don't! As far as the doctors are concerned, I would be happy to tell them what you said today. The same will apply to the pharmaceutical sector, the pharmacists in the small pharmacies. I can assure you that they won't like them very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u82	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u83	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3226/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (326/5) The draft law has 82 articles. The bill has 82 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u84	Art. 3/1(n) • 22 – Catherine Fonck (3226/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u85	• 31 – André Frédéric (3226/6) Art. 36 • 30 – Barbara Pas cs (3226/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u86	• 32 – André Frédéric (3226/6) • 25 – Catherine Fonck (3226/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u87	• 28 • Catherine Fonck (3226/6) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u88	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 36, 58, 60, 70 and 72.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u89	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 35, 37 to 57, 59, 61 to 69, 71 and 73 to 82.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u90	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u91	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u92	Mr President, I am referring to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u93	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, innovative therapy drugs have an important potential, especially in relation to serious diseases for which the current therapeutic means are not sufficient. Allowing innovative allogeneic therapy drugs to be manufactured and therefore not limited to innovative autologous therapy drugs is obviously an important thing. I can only support the overall objective of the project and the challenge associated with these innovative allogeneic therapies. On the other hand, I have a series of difficulties with the lack of guarantees provided for in this project. In short, it would be possible for competition to appear between the different final destinations of this human body material. Since no criteria are defined, what will happen in case of multiple applications, e.g. for clinical use, for industrial or research applications? Who will have priority between clinical research, industry research or doctoral research? These questions remain whole from the moment the beacons are not set in this bill. I confess that there are questions about the risk of additional costs and the affordability of human body equipment. There is no provision in this bill for financial compensation. There is also no provision to prevent a commercial or financial interest from prepondering the interest of patients or clinical research. Finally, the issue of informing citizens about tissue donation is an important one. Many things are done to promote organ donation but not tissue donation. The information that must be transmitted in a correct and thorough manner for the donation of human body material is not currently foreseen at all. It is, of course, accompanied by the issue of consent, which, in my view, is just as fundamental. Patients should be able to decide for whom and for what their tissue will be collected. For all these reasons, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u94	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, the aim of this bill under consideration is to modernise and clarify the access and use of human body material for human medical applications or scientific research so that Belgium remains in the world's leading group in the field of scientific research, which will also benefit Belgian patients. With respect to your question about what to do if there are too many applications for this use, the allocation of human body material is an important aspect of the project. Several basic principles for the allocation of human body material are being developed and an allocation committee for human body material will be established. The human body material bank is required to allocate the body material in accordance with several basic principles, including equality and non-discrimination. In addition, priority is, in principle, given to planned human clinical applications. In the event of disagreement regarding the correct implementation or application of the criteria for allocation by a bank of human body material or on any other subject relating to the allocation of human body material, the situation may be submitted for opinion to this new allocation committee for the human body material to be created. All stakeholders, including the donor population and public services, will be represented on this committee. This is to avoid situations where too many requests must be selected. It is an important design, which brings us all the way to the present spirit of time. It should also be read together with the clinical trial design. Mrs Fonck, you once tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, albeit with a smaller scope. So you then had the will to tackle the problems in the sector. Meanwhile, your bill has become obsolete by transposing the European GDPR Directive. We have taken all the elements in it and gone beyond your proposal. Unfortunately, I have not been able to tell you that in committee, but I am telling you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u95	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u96	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3262/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3262/4) The draft law has 22 articles. The bill has 22 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u98	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u100	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3235/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3235/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u102	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3236/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (32361) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u106	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3253/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3253/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, An Capoen and Gwenaëlle Grovonius, referred to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u111	Mr President, I shall speak briefly. This bill once again gives the impression of wanting to hang a new trophy on a wall, to redo what has already been done. In short, you get out of the way and you end up receding by stripping up some still recent laws of just a few years. Unfortunately, on budgetary aspects, the Department of Development Cooperation was not spared. Between 2016 and 2017, official development assistance fell by 6%. The main problem with the text before us today is that we do not have the management contract. Yet it is the backbone of this project. The opinion of the Council of State stresses this. It is therefore difficult to know how the monitoring and evaluation of projects will be carried out. We don't have any information about that. There have already been scandals. BIO has already been deeply reformed by Minister Labelle to circumvent the drifts concerning, among other things, the selection of projects and the use of tax havens. This allowed us to improve the role of BIO, but today we do not know to what extent the monitoring will be able to continue. Nor is it certain that coherence with development policies can be ensured in the future. Similarly, while it can be argued that the private sector is also a lever for development, it is more than necessary, in the light of the scandals of the time, to properly frame this support for the private sector. It must be well integrated with all relevant actors and, above all, there must be effective monitoring of the risk of harming the objectives of official development assistance. The project also has positive aspects, including the continued focus on micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. There is also the additional nature of the subsidies granted by BIO, the search for better synergies between the different actors or the ability to allow BIO to make investments with a lower expected return in order to increase the development impact during its interventions. These are good things, but unfortunately essential questions remain unanswered, including the content of the management contract that I mentioned earlier. So we feel like we're buying a cat in a bag. It is also unclear what the effective control of BIO's new skills will be, while human resources remain unchanged. How can we ensure that BIO investments in agricultural projects will not run into potential land conflicts in the intervention countries? That is a big question, too. Finally, the composition of BIO's board of directors is problematic. From now on, the Director General of DGD becomes a member of this Board of Directors. This is a point raised by the Council of State. He believes that this could jeopardize BIO's independence from administration. Especially since this Director General will receive remuneration to sit on the Board of Directors, while he is already paid as Director General of DGD. As to why, on this point, the Minister did not follow the advice of the Council of State, we do not have a response on this matter. Finally, I would like to point out that we really wanted to be constructive by tabling a series of amendments in committee, in particular in response to the comments made by the Council of State. Unfortunately, all these amendments were rejected. For all these reasons, my group will abstain from this bill that is before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u112	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country attaches particular importance to the development of the local private sector in emerging and developing countries. The goal is simple: inclusive economic growth and sustainable development in these countries. This is an essential vehicle for the overall, significant and sustainable improvement of living conditions for local populations. It was in this context that we acquired the Belgian Investment Corporation for developing countries as early as 2001. It, focusing on micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises, offers participation and long-term loans, as well as the necessary technical assistance. It is therefore a central element in our development aid policy. The situation in this area is changing rapidly. This is why the operation of BIO has been regularly adjusted. Thus, as early as 2012, under the previous government, its entire operation was thoroughly evaluated. This led to the drafting of the law of 20 January 2014 which, among other things, extended BIO's mandate to include new areas of sectoral activity such as basic services to the population or support for social economy and solidarity enterprises. The scope of action has also expanded to 52 countries. Two years later, in 2016, under this legislative term, the Act of 3 November 2001 was further amended to, among other things, open up BIO's capital to private investors who attach importance to social and environmental improvement. Today, two years later, where are we? BIO is part of the European Association for the Development of Financial Institutions with fourteen other similar institutions. Together, these total EUR 30 billion. France, Germany and the Netherlands account for half of this capital. Belgium, on the other hand, is in the average of the other countries. In 2017, for example, EUR 712.9 million was committed mainly in the form of loans, mainly to Africa and Asia. This is a constant increase since, by comparison, we were 172 million euros in 2008 and 459 million euros in 2012, and 712 million in 2017, as I recall. Why do you want to come back to this 2001 law two years after the last amendment? In fact, five objectives are being pursued. I'm not going to detail them here, but I'll talk about them in a few words. We want to allow BIO to make investments with a lower financial return, but a better development impact. The main focus here is on the poorest countries, where social performance is necessarily greater than financial performance. We also want to broaden the scope for granting subsidies. We would also like to make it possible to carry out specific missions for third parties, and allow the State to entrust specific missions to BIO or to draw on its expertise. Finally, we would like to align some of BIO's operating elements with that of Enabel. The purpose of this revision is therefore very simple. The aim is to broaden the range of instruments for BIO, as well as its ability to act. Thanks to this law, coherence will be increased. It is, for me and for the MR, essential to achieve the initial objectives of the implementation of BIO seventeen years ago. For this reason, the MR Group will enthusiastically support the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u113	In particular, the text submitted constitutes a technical amendment to the current law. At the same time, we see that implementation is largely determined by the management contract, with rather large political consequences, for which our carte blanche is now being asked. The relationship between the legislative text and what remains to be clarified in the management contract has been distorted. There is no control or participation of Parliament in the management contract. Moreover, it is impossible to determine what the impact of the new initiatives mentioned in the draft law will be. Colleagues, a number of concerns both of us and of civil society were not included in the management contract, a number of other ones. We are not entirely opposed to the draft law, but we are not in full agreement with it either. It does not go far enough for us and is not transparent enough. Consequently, we shall abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Minister De Croo hears your comments on the issue of management contracts. Mrs Grovonius and Mrs Pehlivan, he is quite prepared to come to committee to explain the management contracts and I wanted to tell you that. As Minister for Development Cooperation, he attaches great importance to the development of the local private sector in emerging and developing countries. I thank Mrs Grovonius, who has indeed noted a number of positive things in this project. I will not go back to the bill in detail because the minister has responded extensively in committee. Mrs Grovonius, you have indeed noted a willingness to have a strong instrument to support the local private sector in these countries, a sector which is not only concerned with the question of performance but also with the question of social and environmental impacts and which intends to work with small structures and small farms, as is done with microcredits. There is a desire in this project to look to smaller structures and to better support them while having a wider expertise - this has also been noted - and to see BIO and development cooperation, more attentive to these small sectors. I will also note an important element in relation to the operation and management of BIO. The provisions concerning the management and operation of BIO have been aligned with those of Enabel. Several elements are already included in the law of 23 November 2017 concerning the composition and operation of the board of directors, the management capacity requirements and the minimum content of the management contract, as well as the business plan and the rules relating to the Commissioner of the Government. The conditions under which BIO may or may not operate in financial centres have been clarified. This preliminary draft does not affect it. Mrs Grovonius has indicated this, with a positive emphasis on it, and I thank her on behalf of Minister De Croo for this project, which highlights synergies and collaboration with other actors in Belgian development policy. Increasing this synergy means increasing coherence. This is a good thing for SMEs in emerging and developing countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u115	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u116	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3212/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3212/6) The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law amending the Act of 3 November 2001 establishing the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries and the Act of 23 November 2017 amending the name of the Belgian Technical Cooperative and laying down the tasks and functioning of Enabel, Belgian Development Agency'. The title has been amended by the committee in "draft law amending the law of 3 November 2001 on the creation of the Belgian Investment Corporation for Developing Countries and the law of 23 November 2017 amending the name of the Belgian Technical Cooperation and defining the tasks and operation of Enabel, Belgian Development Agency". The draft law has 22 articles. The bill has 22 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u118	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Johan Klaps, Benoît Piedboeuf, Roel Deseyn, Luk Van Biesen, Sophie De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. MM. Ahmed Laaouej and Georges Gilkinet, rapporteurs, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u120	Mr President, this is a state guarantee for the new prison in Antwerp, for which negotiations must be started shortly. There is a huge shortage of prison places, which causes a lot of abuses in many places. We therefore need additional capacity. With the proposal we are taking a step towards creating this additional capacity. To account for the legal text, I would remind you that the procedure applied is absolutely no exception. Such a state guarantee was also granted for the construction of other prisons. I refer to the procedure for the prisons of Beveren, Dendermonde, Haren, Leuze-en-Hainaut and Marche-en-Famenne.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u121	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u122	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3288/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2288/3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u123	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u124	Without report No Report Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Johan Klaps, Roel Deseyn, Benoît Piedboeuf, Dirk Van Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3289/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3289/3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u128	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 October 2018, I propose that Mr Guy Rapaille be given the honorary title of Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the advice of the October 10, 2018 Conference of Presidents, I propose that Mr. Guy Rapaille be given the honour of chairing the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u129	The mandate of the members of the Information and Advisory Centre on Harmful and sectarian Organisations shall expire on 19 December 2018. The term of office of the members of the Information and Advisory Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations expires on December 19, 2018. In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Law of 2 June 1998 establishing an Information and Advisory Centre on harmful and sectarian organisations and an Administrative Coordination Cell on the fight against harmful sectarian organisations, the Chamber must therefore appoint eight new permanent and eight alternate members, with a two-thirds majority. In accordance with Article 4(1) of the Act of 2 June 1998 establishing an Information and Opinion Centre on harmful sectarian organizations and an Administrative Unit for the Coordination of the Fight against Harmful sectarian organizations, the Chamber must therefore appoint eight new members and eight alternate members, by a two-thirds majority. Four permanent and four alternate members shall be appointed on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, who shall nominate two candidates for each post to be filled. Four effective members and four alternate members shall be appointed upon submission of a list by the Council of Ministers, with two candidates proposed for each mandate to be conferred. The other four permanent and four alternate members shall be appointed directly by the Chamber. The other four effective members and the other four alternate members shall be appointed directly by the House. Both the members directly appointed by the Chamber and the members nominated by the Council of Ministers must be guaranteed the linguistic parity between the members of the Dutch and French languages. At least one permanent and one alternate member shall have knowledge of German. Both for members appointed directly by the House and for those appointed on presentation of a list by the Council of Ministers, linguistic parity between French-speaking members and Dutch-speaking members must be ensured. At least one effective member and one alternate member must have knowledge of the German language. Members shall be appointed for a term of six years, renewable once, because of their experience or knowledge of the problems of sectarian organisations. Members are appointed for a term of six years, renewable once, on the basis of their experience or knowledge of the problem of harmful sectarian organizations. The Chamber shall elect the President and the Deputy Chairperson from among its permanent members. The Chamber shall appoint from among the actual members the President and the alternate President. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 October 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for those members who are directly appointed by the Chamber and that you also ask the Justice Office to publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for those candidates appointed on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 October 2018, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for members nominated directly by the Chamber and ask the SPF Justice to also publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Moniteur for candidates who will be nominated on presentation by the Council of Ministers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u130	During the plenary session of 28 June 2018, the effective members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-immunitions were appointed in vitro. The actual members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos were appointed at the June 28, 2018 plenary session. As insufficient applications were submitted for the alternate member's mandates, the plenary session of 9 May 2018 decided to ask the Public Health Office to publish a fourth call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. Given that an insufficient number of applications had been submitted for the terms of alternate members, the plenary session of 9 May 2018 decided to request the Public Health FPS to publish a fourth call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor. By letter dated 26 September 2018, Mr Pedro Facon, Director-General of the Public Health Office, notified the applications submitted as a result of the call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal of 20 June 2018. By letter dated 26 September 2018, Mr Pedro Facon, Director General of the SPF Santé publique, communicates the applications that were submitted following the appeal to the candidates published in the Belgian Monitor of 20 June 2018. Four additional applications were submitted but there are still two applications missing for the mandates of French-speaking PhD in the sciences. Four additional applications have been submitted, but there are still two outstanding applications for Doctors in Francophone Sciences. After four calls for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal by the Public Health Office, the following applications were submitted: After four calls for candidates published in the Belgian Monitor by the SPF Santé publique, the following applications were submitted: 1. Category "doctors' - Mr Hugo Godoy (F) - Mrs Sophie Perrier d'Hauterive (F) Mrs Karen Sermon (N) - Mr Willem Verpoest (N) 1. Category "Medical Doctors" - M. Hugo Godoy (F) - Ms. Sophie Perrier d'Hauterive (F) - Mme Karen Sermon (N) - M. Willem Verpoest (N) 2. Category "doctors in science" - Mr Björn Heindryckx (N) - Ms Usha Punjabi (N) 2. Category "Science Doctors" - M. Björn Heindryckx (N) - Ms. Usha Punjabi (N) 3. Category "lawyers' - Mrs Emilie Bekaert (N) - Mr Sven Gondry (N) - mevrouw Géraldine Mathieu (F) - Ms Sarah Panis (N/F) - Mr Koen Thompson Syen (N/F) - Mr Geoffrey Willems (F) 3. Legal category - Ms. Emilie Bekaert (N) - M. Sven Gondry (N) - Ms. Géraldine Mathieu (F) - Ms. Sarah Panis (F/N) - M. Koen Thompson Syen (F/N) - M. Geoffrey Willems (F) 4. Category "experts in ethical problems and social sciences" - Mr Dan Lecocq (F) - Mr Marc Mayer (F) - Mrs Kelly Tilleman (N) Mrs Hilde Van de Velde (N) 4. Category "Ethics and Social Science Experts" - Mr. Dan Lecocq (F) - M. Marc Mayer (F) - Mme Kelly Tilleman (N) - Mme Hilde Van de Velde (N) In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 October 2018, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 October 2018, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u131	Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 3/1(n). (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 3/1(n). (3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 57 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u132	Mr. President, I've been with Mr. Gustin who's in hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u133	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Vercammen and Mr Spoorten voted like their group. Vote on Amendment No 31 by André Frédéric to insert an article 4/1(n). (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 31 by André Frédéric to insert an Article 4/1(n). (3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 36. (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Barbara Pas cs to Rule 36. (3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 5 Yes No. 132 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 36 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 36 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck on article 58. (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 58. (3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 44 Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 58 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 58 was adopted. Mrs Patricia Ceysens voted against. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck on article 60. (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 60. (3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 34 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 60 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 60 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck on article 70. (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 70. (3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by André Frédéric on Article 70. (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 32 by André Frédéric to Rule 70. (3226/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u134	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Catherine Fonck on article 70. (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 70. (3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 34 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 70 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 70 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Catherine Fonck on article 72. (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 72. (3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[55]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 72 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 72 was adopted. Mr Kristof Calvo has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 83(n). (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 83(n). 3226/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[12]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 83(n). (3226/6) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 83(n). (3226/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u135	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u137	Mr President, I will abstain from today's vote for the following reasons. I, as Fleming, found sufficient arguments in both the content of the message and the non-verbal communication of Minister Reynders to give me a good thought about supporting this government. There is a withdrawal of the diplomatic status of a Belgian. It's not because it's a Fleming that it's less important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u138	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 78 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 61 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3226/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3226/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 78 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 61 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3262/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3262/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3235/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3235/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3236/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3236/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3253/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3253/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mrs Françoise Schepmans voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 77 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 59 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3212/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3212/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Carina Van Cauter has voted like her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 82 Yes No. [[15]] No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3288/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3288/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u145	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 124 Yes No. 0 Non Abstentions [[15]] Abstentions Totaal 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3289/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3289/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-18-54-plenair-ip251x.u146	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 25 October 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 25 October 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 October 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 25 October 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
