ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, this morning's agenda includes questions on energy addressed to the Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u2	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, remember our exchange of October 17th, and your commitment to ask ENGIE the following question before coming back with their answer. What new information did the operator have to decide to postpone the planned start-up date of its Tihange 3 reactor on 21 September by several months, i.e. only 9 days before the expiry of the previously announced start-up date? What information was not available on September 20 – and therefore, necessarily before that date too – did she change the situation, this famous September 21st? I had already asked you the question and you were not able to answer it at the time, but you had committed yourself to go and ask ENGIE about the answer. I assume that in the meantime you have received their answer, otherwise we will have to find that there is a blockage in their charge. I listen carefully to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u3	Mr President, at the sitting on 17 October I had the opportunity to explain to the honourable Member at length the operation of the REMIT procedure. This procedure obliges the operator to give privileged information only to the market, when it becomes sufficiently precise and finalised in its head. That's what happened overnight. I have given you a long answer that I will not repeat here since you will see it in the full report. I still don't have a more precise and technical answer from Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u4	Mr President, I am sorry: Mr Nollet - I will stop calling you Mr President! Everyone knows that you are president of the bilateral Belgian-Lebanon section of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. There's no problem. You have the floor, Congressman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u5	Minister, this is particularly challenging. Indeed, a month later, you still do not have the answer. What is the justification for this blocking in the transmission of information in the head of Electrabel, in your opinion? I have no doubt for a moment that you have made the request. I can't imagine it's just because you wouldn't have asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u6	I will insist once again that I am being questioned for a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u7	I find it disturbing that the operator is no more cooperating with you. He owes you respect and answers your questions would deserve, in his head, a little more sagacity and speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u8	Minister, it seems that the supply of uranium to Doel and Tihange power plants from the company URENCO in Gronau could be a problem. I remain cautious because I read this news in a foreign newspaper only, not on other news sites. Do you confirm this problem? Can you say more? At what time could this threat become a reality? Are there any alternatives? Which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u9	Mr President, Synatom, the company responsible for supplying fuel to the company Electrabel SA, which operates the Belgian nuclear power plants, informed me that there were currently no problems with the supply of enriched uranium to the Doel and Tihange power plants. The diversification of its supply contracts for enrichment services allows it to cover at any time the risk of failure of a potential supplier from any other plant in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u10	Minister, in the wake of the inquisitive revelations of October 9, you led the Prime Minister to give false information to Parliament. Why didn't you immediately tell her that the journalist did contact your firm? As the government could no longer deny the facts, it then opted for a line of defence which was to argue that "the article was only a snapshot of reality, at a certain point in discussions still ongoing". When did this snapshot come from? Is it before or after the text adopted on first reading was sent? What do you remember from this episode? What have you changed in your firm's internal procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u11	Mr Nollet, I appreciate the succinctness of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u12	Mr President, first of all you will recall that in plenary session on 9 October, the Prime Minister provided a response on the subject of energy. It referred to a detail revealing the way in which the newspaper in question dealt with the matter. For the truth of the timing, I would like to inform you that Ms. Scharff, as she is a woman, had contacted my office the previous week. I had him asked – and my order was executed – to contact me again the following week, because it was then impossible for me to answer him about such a complex text. As I have already explained in length, wide and across – and I refer you to the full record of the previous sitting – this was not the text I was working on. She didn't call me back. This is the information received by the Prime Minister, who has not been contacted in any way, since he is not directly responsible for the development of this project. That is why he transmitted information which was not wrong, but partly true, since he had not been aware of the exchange between Mrs Scharff and myself. She did not consider it useful to contact me again to ask me for information that she would probably have been very interested in getting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for your clarification, but they do not answer my question: when did this snapshot go back?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u14	But I don't know! I did not see the text available to the journalist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u15	You say this is just a snapshot of reality. I'd like to know when it goes back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u16	I read the article, just like you...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u17	One at a time, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u18	You say, "He existed, at some point, as an instant." When did it start?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u19	I can't answer you because I didn't see the text in Mrs Scharff's possession. However, through his article, I realized that this was not the text I was working on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u20	So, you remember from this episode that the journalist didn't do her job properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u21	No, that's your interpretation. The journalist wanted to do her job. I asked him for a further time to be able to answer him. She wanted to do her article when she planned to do it. We have therefore not been able to discuss the text before it, which is not the text on which I am working.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u22	My final question was whether there were any changes in internal procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u23	Certainly not! Everything I asked for has been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u24	Madam Minister, in his statement on the state of the Union, the Prime Minister mentioned his contact with Angela Merkel and her agreement to assist Belgium. What exactly is this agreement? Is it a written agreement or just a verbal exchange? What were the terms of trade? Do you deny what other government sources have confirmed in the press, namely that Germany's commitment to help us – given the multiple failures of our obsolete nuclear power plants – has been made in return for an agreement by Belgium to lower the threshold of its requirement in the CO2 emissions of cars?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u25	Mr President, I have already had the opportunity to answer this question at length in committee on 17 October. I will repeat part of the answer, beginning with the end. I have told you and I repeat that Minister Altmaier and I have not spoken in any way about the issue of car emissions. We talked about loop flows, we talked about the fact that these loop flows had to be abolished to the greatest extent in order to allow German overproduction to reach Belgium via interconnections through Holland and France. We didn't talk about anything else. As you could understand on the basis of the analyses carried out by Elia, large-scale imports are essential to ensure the security of supply of our country during the winter. As soon as this happened – a shortage of available means of production – I contacted the neighbouring countries in order to appeal for their solidarity within the European framework. This is entirely legitimate since we ourselves have already responded to previous calls for solidarity from other countries. The Dutch, Germans and French have reacted very positively and, at present, the necessary preparations are being put in place at the administrative level to act on this solidarity. On 4 October, at the request of the European Commission, our situation as well as the measures already implemented and future measures were explained within the framework of the electric coordination group. These explanations which we give to the Member States of the European Union show them what we are doing to avoid problems of supply and spillovers. At this meeting, we also announced the creation of a group on electric rarity within the framework of the Pentalateral Energy Forum. This group is composed of the regulatory ministries operating the network of the countries comprising the Forum - Benelux, France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland being observers - and expanded to include representatives of the European Commission (ENTSO-E) and the Coreso Coordination Centre. At the first meeting of the Standing Group, which was set up on an ad hoc basis for the problem of rarity, it was found that there is sufficient production capacity at regional level to assist Belgium in case of need. However, the challenge is to transport this current to the Belgian market. At present, we are finalising the operational framework, which includes a package of actions to deal with this situation. This implies stricter application of existing contracts, such as ensuring quality data input for the flow-based model, application of winter values to high voltage lines and compliance with the 20% rule of minRAM (minimum remaining available margin). In addition, complementary actions have been identified in terms of greater flexibility in the coordinated use of the Phase Shifters on our borders in the event of a threat of shortages and greater transparency regarding the operational measures planned in neighbouring countries. My administration informed me that an agreement was within reach. I am convinced that it is making every effort to achieve this agreement in the coming days. This is always about the document I've been talking about, namely the framework. However - and this is not a secret - Germany has an important overproduction which holds an equally important key. Our network is largely used by Germany, which creates loop flows, so that Germany can move its current from north to south. That is why, on 16 October, when I visited my colleague, Mr Altmaier, to explain our problems and to ask him to support us with exceptional measures to deal with them, I found myself confronted with a minister who was engaged in a positive and very concrete way. He assured us of a guarantee to help Belgium and the Belgian consumer in particular during this winter. This interview led to the signing of a joint statement that you saw. This declaration of intent not only gives political impetus to concrete measures for the weeks and months ahead, but also strengthens our relations for future years in the various fields of energy transition, integration of the electricity and natural gas market, the transition from L to H gas and offshore development and innovation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, La Libre Belgique of this 12 October title: "Marghem calls on the Regions not to comply with the legislation." Do you confirm such a call to illegality? What has been the response and response of each of the regions? What further guarantee is there that other breaches of legislation will not be encouraged to deal with the threat of shortages? I am thinking in particular of the rules to be observed in terms of safety and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u27	Mr President, this is a big journalistic lie! Indeed, I do not urge the Regions to "violation" legislation - I have read this much louder term. Everyone works in their skills and in a healthy collaboration. The consultation with the Regions is to ensure that the entire federal executive and legislative arsenal is coordinated so that units can return in practice to the circuit. Many of you are asking me about the state of progress in the aggregation of production capacity to cope with the winter, given the unavailability of some nuclear power plants. When I answer this question earlier, you will see that, thanks to the coordinated work with the Regions - which is proceeding in an extremely constructive way, each in its own competence - we have brought a series of plants back into the circuit, for example to Ham. It is also on the very day of the publication of this article (you may have it in front of you and can check it) that Flanders has indicated by a Belga that, thanks to the procedures at its disposal, it has ensured that this plant can restart on the Ghent side. The same was true for power stations in the south of the country, which I will tell you about earlier. The Walloon Region, for its part, published a Belga of the same style, explaining that, thanks to the decretal procedures it had used, it could bring one or the other of the production plants located in its territory back into the circuit. The Regions have their own powers. They must be respected. As a federal minister, I respect them. And the Regions respect the federal government. In a healthy collaboration that bears fruit in practice, everyone works within the framework of their skills to try to bring back into the circuit additional capabilities for the winter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u28	Madam Minister, La Libre Belgique of this 12 October tells us that within your office there are some doubts as to the usefulness of increasing Belgium's import capacity. Madam Minister, can you support the foundations of this doubt in the light of the current problems, the development of renewable energies provided for in your Energy Pact, and the project to promote a European Renewable Energy Community?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u29	Mr President, Mr Nollet, I read this article: "In Marghem, there are some doubts as to the usefulness of increasing Belgium's import capacity. We share the sector's concerns about the usefulness of interconnections. The infrastructure work required to climb to 10 gigawatts is extremely expensive for a performance that is not necessarily assured, in any case in the short term. Elia's plan is still to be subject to a public consultation procedure when it is formalized. He also received an advisory opinion from CREG. He thinks the regulator is asking a lot of questions, just like the Marghem firm." This means that, while interconnections are of course necessary for the energy transition, for the proper functioning of the electricity market they must also be available, which is not always the case – we have just mentioned. It is for this reason that I am negotiating this Memorandum of Understanding with Germany, in order to increase as much as possible the actual capacity of existing interconnections that can supply us with electricity from Germany, before we have a direct interconnection for a capacity of 1000 megawatts with Germany, called ALEGrO. All of this, for now, allows us to have a maximum capacity of 5,500 megawatts. But this article talks about a capacity and flexibility for Elia's investment plan for 10 gigawatts. The question arises of balancing advantages, disadvantages and cost-effectiveness. It is precisely in this line that the CREG is located. I am currently examining the opinion of CREG, to have all the necessary caution, so that we have as many interconnections as possible, but without excessive financial expenditure. We know that when a country needs the electricity it produces in its territory, it does not physically send electricity through interconnections, whereas we have also paid for it, i.e. the Belgian consumer paid for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 27236 by Mrs Temmerman will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, Prime Minister Charles Michel, at the State of the Union speech on 8 October, said: "The sudden and improvised release of nuclear energy, which some plead, is not our option. Recent facts prove that pretending the opposite is a pure illusion. We maintain the course of the energy strategy validated by the government. It will be implemented. The law provides for the controlled release of nuclear energy at a realistic and predictable pace and with the monitoring required." This statement does nothing but restore some doubt on the part of the government, when it rejected it last March with the unveiling of the federal energy strategy, many of which have since been flouted. When the Prime Minister talks about the sudden and improvised release of nuclear power, I do not understand exactly what he is aiming for. It seems to me that almost all of Parliament is calling for an exit from nuclear power in 2025, accompanied by a mechanism to support gas power plants and to ensure energy security. The same is true when the Prime Minister states that the law provides for the controlled exit of nuclear energy "at a realistic and predictable pace". The law, it seems to me, provides unambiguously for the arrest of the last power plant (Doel 2) on 1 December 2025. It is therefore up to the government to put the elements in place so that it is predictable and sustainable. Minister, my questions are very simple. Did the Prime Minister, by these terms, question the release of nuclear power in 2025? What actions are being taken to ensure that such a deadline remains sustainable and therefore in the possible timing of government action?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u32	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, first of all I would like to say that you have not read your question precisely. You changed it when you read it. I note with a smile that, in your written question, you say that it seems to you that the "quasi-total opposition" is calling for an exit from nuclear power in 2025. I didn't know that part of the opposition was against the release of nuclear power in 2025. You actually said the 'quasi-all of Parliament'. Anyway, it's an anecdote about form. On the merits, you would like to know whether or not the Prime Minister called into question the release of nuclear power in 2025. No! You have all the freedom to ask him the question yourself. Not at all! He explained in this debate that, in reality, there was a sudden and unorganized exit, given the unavailability of six out of seven reactors. This showed what difficulties we found ourselves in when there was no orderly plan to exit nuclear power. This orderly plan exists. You know that. This is the Energy Pact that we have been talking about at length. With an exit already announced by the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 law in 2022 and 2023, it actually plans to replace the outgoing capacity with the construction of new gas-fired power plants, which will be supported by a capacity compensation mechanism. As far as the second question is concerned, we do not believe that our action has been delayed. We did the right thing in this Parliament, which others did not do when they should have done it in 2003.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u33	With regard to the anecdote, since the minister considers it to be one, between the time a question is tabled and the time when it is asked, it will surely take place three, four weeks, sometimes even more. Minister, some contextualization seems to me to be necessary to put things back in place. I understand that you confirm that the release of nuclear power in 2025 is still on the agenda, and I hear your answer that you have done everything you have to do, except that in terms of the obligation to achieve results in relation to the timetables you had planned, we are out of time!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u34	Question No 27278 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u35	Minister, the newspaper L'Echo of 20 October tells us that ENGIE is in discussion with suppliers of floating power plants likely to be installed off the Belgian coast. Have you been made aware of such intentions or is this happening without any contact or consultation with your firm? What are the platforms envisaged and the powers involved? What do you think of such a project? What are the legal constraints and obstacles to such a project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u36	Mr President, from the outset of the security of supply forecasts for this winter, my approach has been to allow the market to balance supply and demand as much as possible. In order to do so, each market participant can examine the options that he or she considers useful. When a market participant wishes to take action, I will review the information and facilitate – as I have already done – what it wants to do when it is possible and necessary. If a market player believes that electric ships are an interesting opportunity, it is his responsibility to contact me and negotiate the terms and the cost price. At the moment, however, I do not see the short-term need to use such vessels. It is logical for market participants to examine all options to ensure the balance of their portfolio. That is what they must do in the first place. It must be technically possible to connect a motorboat to the Belgian network. In addition, all permits, which will necessarily be regional, must be in order. Since I have not received a specific file, however, I cannot provide you with a more precise answer at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u37	Minister, may I take it that it will not be for this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u38	I don't know. It is the market actor who declares himself and who will come when the time comes with a concrete dossier if he considers it useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u39	Mr President, Minister, once again I would like to ask you a question about the capacity compensation mechanism. On 20 July the Council of Ministers adopted a preliminary draft law to implement a capacity compensation mechanism. The aim is to attract additional production capacity when we move to the core exit. According to the preliminary draft, the capacity fee mechanism would consist of organising two auctions, namely an auction four years before each delivery year and an auction prior to each delivery year, in order to have the necessary capacity. Following the auction, the selected capacity suppliers could sign a contract which entitles them to a monthly premium. The preliminary draft law was submitted to the European Commission. Discussions with the European Commission started in August 2018. According to the answer you gave at the committee meeting of 18 September, you, as Minister, had until the end of September to answer the questions of the European Commission. Since it is now the beginning of November, I would have liked to have had a state of affairs. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play? Have you provided all your answers to the European Commission? Have you received any response to your answers? How do you describe the contact you have with the European Commission? Do you have any idea the timing of a decision by the European Commission? Once the European Commission has taken a decision, what are the next steps that need to be taken before we can effectively implement a capacity compensation mechanism? If I am not mistaken, there is also the possibility of a shortened procedure with the European Commission. Was or is it being considered to have the capacity compensation mechanism approved as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, on 20 July 2018, the Council of Ministers adopted the preliminary draft law establishing a capacity compensation mechanism and asked for the preliminary draft opinion to be submitted to the European Commission. My services immediately started contacts with the Directorate-General for Competition, without forgetting to inform the Directorate-General for Energy. Contacts with the Directorate-General for Competition are particularly constructive. Following an initial exchange of documents and information, a meeting with the competent services was held on 4 September. Following this orientation discussion, we received a whole series of written questions, which can be divided into two subjects, in particular the mechanism itself and its necessity. Questions on the mechanism were first answered in writing and then discussed with the Competition DG on 2 October. Following this discussion, we received a number of written comments and suggestions on the preliminary draft law. My services are finalizing the integration of these comments and suggestions into the preliminary draft law so that the Council of Ministers can adopt the preliminary draft at second reading this year. I cannot say much about our answers to the questions about the need for the mechanism, since it is only at the beginning of November that a meeting with the Competition DG is planned. Contacts with the European Commission are very constructive and are also very useful. Of course, they look first and foremost at the competition aspects, but in view of their extensive experience with capacity compensation mechanisms in other countries, they can also provide extremely interesting feedback which will help us to design the mechanism as optimally as possible. In order to obtain DG Competition's approval of a capacity compensation mechanism, its need must first be demonstrated in a clear and substantiated manner. As mentioned above, the discussion with the Commission is still to take place. However, many studies showing the needs of the electricity sector have been published in Belgium in recent years. I therefore have no doubt that DG Competition will give a positive opinion. With regard to the mechanism as described in the draft law, DG Competition's comments and suggestions are not insurmountable – on the contrary – since no fundamental objections were expressed against the mechanism. As already mentioned, a step-by-step approach is needed. The law must first be approved. In the course of 2019, the formal processes it provides for with a view to implementing orders can then be initiated. In this respect, my services will always be able to refer to DG Competition, with a view to correcting it at the appropriate time, so that the European Commission can, at the end of the journey, easily take a decision on the formal notification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I am glad to hear that the talks have been constructive. When it comes to the mechanism itself, major steps have already been taken. Well, that's a good thing. As far as the need is concerned, it is, of course, essential that steps are taken there too. If that is not approved, then the rest cannot either. If the need is approved and we receive positive opinions, what is the quickest time to come to Parliament with the capacity compensation mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u42	We are trying to make DG Competition aware that we want to go fast. I think she got it right. As you know, I met Mrs Vestager on this subject last September. In addition, we want the framework bill to be brought before Parliament as soon as possible. I hope this will happen again before the end of the year and I do everything for it. Contacts continue with DG Competition to ensure that this framework project comes with the royal decrees I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I also regularly ask questions on this subject. The introduction of an energy standard is in the coalition agreement and was incorporated into the federal energy strategy of 30 March 2018. This standard, which depends on the consumption profile and energy intensity, must ensure that the different components of the energy cost in Belgium are not higher than in our neighbouring countries. The aim is to preserve the competitiveness of our businesses and the purchasing power of families. Madam Minister, you were instructed to submit a preliminary draft law by 20 July 2018. To the extent that my information is correct, no preliminary draft has yet been submitted. That is why I have a number of questions. What is the state of play in drawing up the preliminary draft law on the energy standard? The 20th of July deadline was not met. What are the bottlenecks, which prevented the deadline from being met? The regulator, the CREG, could be commissioned to make an annual comparison of the final invoice with that in our neighbouring countries. Afterwards, recommendations or opinions may be followed to address the possible gap. What is the CREG's position on the initiative to introduce an energy standard? What role will the CREG have in the preliminary draft law? The coalition agreement also makes it very clear that the introduction of an energy standard must take place as far as possible in cooperation with the Länder. How were they already involved in the preparation of the preliminary draft? How do you see the cooperation with the Länder? What is the new timing for submitting a preliminary draft to the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, in reply to your first and second questions, just before the summer holidays, we received a letter from the European Commission stating that an adjustment of the cap in the system of offshore degressivity is a priority. This new information has greatly influenced the energy standard file, as the system of degressivity has a major impact on the competitiveness of companies. As a result, the energy standard file has been delayed. I come to the answer to your third and fourth questions. As you said, the regulators, including the CREG, will carry out this study. The CREG will do this together with the other regulators: the VREG, the CWaPE and BRUGEL. In reply to your fifth question, I would like to propose the preliminary draft before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u45	Mr President, Minister, there is therefore a new deadline: the end of this year. I look forward to it, and I hope I don't have to ask any new questions about the timing of this. We have been waiting a long time for it. The deadline was 20 July 2018, but we have been asking this since 2014. It was in our election program back then. It is not just a question from us, a lot of stakeholders from the energy sector are waiting for it. Especially with rising energy prices due to scarcity, it is very important that we have a clear view of our energy bill. I'll keep you on the deadline of the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u46	If no one sees any objection, I propose to move on to the attached questions Nos 27474 and 27477 of Mr Nollet pending the arrival of Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u47	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have had the opportunity to analyze ONDRAF's response letter to our multiple questions. However, can you explain why, while the AFCN recommends that landfill scenarios be considered beyond 400 metres, the ONDRAF only uses the 400-metre scenario and does not take into account the higher cost of a possible 600-metre scenario? As we have already had the opportunity to say, when dealing with cases with considerable implications in terms of time and money, it is essential to provide for the worst-case scenario. How can we compensate for this gap in the current work of ONDRAF? Can you also tell me the reversibility time taken into account in the budget evaluation? Is this an unlimited reversibility, as claimed by a majority of citizens, or is it a reversibility limited to the cycle of the exploitation phase, as ONDRAF is trying to circumscribe it? If so, what is the legal or regulatory basis for ONDRAF to take into account only a very limited reversibility over time in assessing the costs of the B&C landfill project? While on a deposit of the first B waste in 2035-2040 and C waste from 2080, ONDRAF postulated these dates at 2060-2070 and 2100-2110, respectively. Why has ONDRAF reduced the expected terms from twenty to thirty years? It is difficult not to see this as a form of compensation linked to the new budget estimate. However, delaying the process for several decades also increases the risk of not having the necessary provisions at the appropriate time. Do you now see more clearly the impact that this postponement will have on the provisions to be paid? You asked to include my second question, which is quite specific. Therefore, I am now putting it down even if I feel that it deserves a clean answer. In our previous exchange on this subject on 17 October, you replied: "As far as the SEA study is concerned, I am assessing the situation in my firm and consulting with my colleague from the Economy." It is assumed that this is now done, especially as the timetable for the end of the legislature narrows sharply. As I said in reply, I do not think there is a need to re-launch lengthy legal studies, since those initiated at the beginning of the process were already very clear. A new impact study was needed and public consultation was essential. The Government's decision on these two elements cannot be deferred. When will you initiate a new environmental impact and impact assessment? In what form and according to what schedule are you going to organize the public consultation? Will each municipality be asked individually and will it have to position itself in this context? Furthermore, are you going to seize or have you already seized the AFCN of the national policy proposal or are you waiting for the outcome of the new impact assessment and public consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u48	Mr President, I will answer your first question. I do not yet have the answer to your second question. It is therefore possible that I may transmit it to you in writing. I'm surprised you're always resting the same questions. Should I be surprised?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u49	From the moment I don't have the answers, you must not be surprised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u50	The answer is what I can give at some point. You have analysed the letter from the ONDRAF which I gave you last time and on which I made various comments which are contained in the full report of our previous committee on pages 22, 23 et seq. I would like to read them again, but I do not believe that this will enrich our dialogue. I'd like to tell you a few things. To be complete and to have already described it many times, I remind you of the retroacts of this situation. The current contractual period runs from the beginning of 2014 to the end of 2018. Evaluations are therefore carried out for the following period. You have already asked me several written and oral questions on this subject in order to anticipate, in particular, these re-evaluations which are carried out in accordance with the ONDRAF Act, that is, the Act of 8 August 1980 and the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981. First, what is the procedure? The producer shall establish a reference programme which shall contain the quantities of waste which it intends to produce and the corresponding schedules. Secondly, ONDRAF determines the baseline scenario for the long-term management of radioactive waste. Thirdly, ONDRAF applies this realistic financial baseline scenario for the assessment of the costs of storage activities and geological and surface waste storage activities. It takes into account producer reference programmes. ONDRAF establishes costing, i.e. the best estimate of all future costs. These include infrastructure and farm construction costs, personnel, subcontracting, consumables and site closure costs, per project, for storage, surface and geological storage, according to the best assumptions known today. The charges and tariffs are then calculated by category of waste, depending on the charges which are attributable to the respective waste of these producers, on the basis of the guiding principles of the Royal Decree. This means, on the one hand, that it takes into account all the costs necessary to carry out the operation and considers the uncertainties resulting from the hazards associated with the execution of the work and the uniqueness of the project. That's what you have to pay. On the other hand, it takes into account the waste present at ONDRAF, by producer, i.e. waste already removed, and the content of the Fund's long-term compartments. That's what's already been paid. The values of these guiding principles shall be agreed between ONDRAF and producers, and this calculation shall be carried out at least every five years. These royalties or tariffs charged to producers are used to feed the Fund over the long term. It's the main mode of power supply. At the beginning of June 2018, as I have already told you, I asked ONDRAF to inform me of the progress of this process. We have already discussed this at length. At the end of June 2018, I was writing to ONDRAF a long series of specific questions that you have taken back to your account. It is on your part, as I have already told you, a mark of recognition that is estimated for me. The ONDRAF answered these many questions in its September 28 letter, which I have already sent to you. To put it differently, at the end of June 2018, the ONDRAF board set the baseline scenario, and became aware of the costings of storage, surface storage and geological storage. He requested to calculate the fees for 2019-2020 and submit the costings and charges for approval at the end of September. In July and September, as I indicated to you, you and I stressed the importance of a prudent nature, and of a framework for the NPC to work properly. In September, ONDRAF presented to my office the main elements of my June letter, which were in preparation. At its meeting on 28 September, the Board of Directors of ONDRAF took the following decision: "For the geological storage of Category B and C waste, the Board of Directors noted that the 2018 overhead costs amount to 10.7 giga euros – 2017 assessment. As regards the setting of charges for the period 2019-2020, the Management Board decided to take into account the optimisation routes for an amount of EUR 2.7 giga, on the basis of 2017, and to approve unit charges."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u51	Minister, my questions are about reversibility and... Well, if you want to go on...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u52	I will continue with my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u53	It'll be a little longer...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u54	Of course. The other questions and answers were brief, Mr. Chairman. As this is more complex, it leads to an equally complex response. "In view of the uncertainty surrounding the optimisation routes, the Governing Council recommended that the CPN take into account, as a transitional measure, under the precautionary principle, the amount of 2.7 giga euros for the determination of the necessary amounts for provisions for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and the management of the irradiated fissile material contained therein. The Management Board has mandated the Directorate-General to submit a detailed analysis of the ways in which future charges can be optimised prior to setting them." Finally, ONDRAF replied to the questions contained in my letter of 3 October, which I forwarded to you. You claim that by holding up $8 billion, the ONDRAF didn't follow me. I must contradict you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u56	You told me last time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u57	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u58	It's part of a whole. As I've told you, the CA's cost was 10.7 giga euros. So my questions made the ONDRAF reflect. This body has in fact set provisional tariffs or charges, applicable for 2019-2020, taking into account optimizations. I remind you that at the beginning of June, ONDRAF had told me that the main producers did not expect the disposal of waste B and C in 2019-2020. This rate is not - or very little - used to feed the fund in the long term. On the other hand, and this is the most important thing, you know – and we agree on this, it must be stressed – that nuclear supplies must be sufficient. As such, the decision of ONDRAF is very clear. In the absence of further calculations, it is the conservatory cost of 10.7 that it recommends to the NPC for the establishment of its provisions. And it's important. This is all the more important since a provision does not yet constitute an expenditure, but an anticipation of a future expenditure. As such, we must be very careful. I regret, of course, that it takes two more years to refine the calculations. However, I finally appreciate that ONDRAF has taken a cautious attitude. So, first of all, she took the scenario at 10.7 and did not set aside her own calculations on the pretext of negotiation. Second, careful costing was recommended to the FNPA. Third, it wants to continue to refine and improve evaluation. Fourthly, it hopes that this deadline for improving this assessment will in any case be limited to two years without having to reach five more years. Fifthly, it wants the tariff resulting from optimized costing to be also limited to a period of two years with little or no removal. On the other hand, I am surprised that, for 15 to 20 years, geological costing has remained at a level of 2.9 to 3.5 giga euros. Here, the conservative costing established by the ONDRAF, 'worst case' as you said on September 18, indicating that it was not a science fiction scenario – I quote – "but to take into account the most expensive conditions in a realistic scenario". So this costing is actuated and recommended by ONDRAF for nuclear power supplies, and it's the most important. You can always say – and I expect – that this is not enough. But, as I've already told you, it's ONDRAF's costing and I don't have any more. ONDRAF spent two years refining it. I would also like to refer to a preliminary point relating to an element which emerged from an opinion of the Council of State of 2009 which I referred to earlier and which states that the procedure which is planned and which I have just described, while the Council of State was deciding on an amendment to the ONDRAF Act, is not compatible with the essence of a fee. The proposed rule should be replaced by a rule assigning to ONDRAF the power to fix, in each individual case, the amount of the levy. This is how I turn to your various questions. I must again note that you rest me with almost the same questions as I asked the ONDRAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u59	Minister, you answer the question at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u60	You're asking me the same question, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u61	I tabled a question so that you would answer the questions you did not answer the last time and you would give me the same answer. I need you to answer the three questions you didn't answer and not the others. So I repeat these three elements: What about the 400 meters and the 600 meters? What is the legal basis for reversibility? What is the impact of the 20-30 year decline? These questions relate to the costing component. You are redeveloping everything else but I was convinced by your answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u62	You are convinced by my answer. That's very good. I hope you're going to be convinced later. Three elements: the costing element benchmark... You have nothing to do with it. Le sausage case... You don't care. The margins of uncertainty... you don't have to worry about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u63	You've already answered all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u64	The schedule...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u65	Planning is a subjective element.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u66	That's it, we're on the map. I'm making proposals, you have it. On planning: The estimate of the schedule takes into account, on the one hand, the feedback from ONDRAF in the framework of the surface storage project in Dessel of Category A waste and, on the other hand, the feedback from different geological storage projects abroad. In the context of the assessment of the overnight costs of geological storage, the construction and operation times of storage have also been reassessed to take account of the new storage architecture and inventory. The fact that ONDRAF has postponed the dates for the storage of the first waste B and C is therefore in no way intended to compensate for the re-estimation of the budget. That's the answer. As far as depth is concerned, the AFCN has indeed requested that the cost estimates be carried out for depths greater than those specific to the Mol-Dessel area, where the HADES underground research laboratory is located, as you know. This request was taken into account by ONDRAF, which compared with the previous costing, considered a depth of 400 metres instead of 230 metres. This depth of 400 metres is representative of the area where low-indused clays are considered as host formation. That's where she is. The Reference Case for the Long-Term Management of Wastes B and C, approved by the Board of Directors at its June 29, 2018 session, considers geological storage at a single site in low-duration clay at a hypothetical average depth of 400 metres. This is a reference scenario of a financial nature. This last word is underlined. It resumes a depth representative of the area, where low-indused clays are considered as host formation, i.e. between 200 metres and a maximum of 600 metres deep, and for which it is still possible to reflect, on the basis of current knowledge, on a storage architecture and to estimate its costs. Today, ONDRAF is in fact able to transfer the results acquired in Boom clay into the HADES underground laboratory to the other low-indused clays considered and to a depth of 400 meters. The storage architecture is generically applicable from 200 to 600 meters, but the lack of knowledge about clays that are poorly indurated at 600 meters makes the transfer of knowledge and hence the assessment of costs much more difficult to such depth. That's what it's about depth. As for the reversibility, compared to the previous costing, the design of the geological storage facility now takes into account the possibilities of reversibility, recoverability and monitoring, as already mentioned above. In accordance with Article 4 of the Law of 3 June 2014 amending Article 179 of the Law of 8 August 1980 on budgetary proposals for the transposition into national law of the Euratom Directive establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel for radioactive waste, national policies on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel considered as waste must contain the modalities of reversibility, recovery and monitoring for a period to be determined as elements for the design and operation of each storage facility. These arrangements shall be established taking into account the need to ensure the safety of the installation. The establishment of such arrangements should therefore be the subject of a stage in the decision-making process which will accompany the implementation of geological storage. As you know, we proceed step by step and this is the translation of this journey. So here are the things that interest you and relate to your question. Finally, Mr Nollet, you asked me the question of the impact of this costing on nuclear supplies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u68	All right. So I'm done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u69	What about the second question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u70	I don't have the answer in my farce, Mr. Nollet. Excuse me. So I'll send it to you in writing, if you accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u71	I don't have much choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u72	My collaborator sent me a series of answers. She's not in it. We're interviewing him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u73	Colleagues and I have more questions. If the answer comes in the meantime, we'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u74	That's what I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u75	Madam Minister, as far as the timetable is concerned, that a re-evaluation affects the construction schedule, I can understand it for two, three or even four years, but having a delay of twenty to thirty years is difficult to understand. In any case, it is not the explanation that you give here in the sitting that allows us to better understand the reason for this important postponement. That is why I have allowed myself to refer to other assumptions which, on the financial side, perhaps allow me to better understand the reasons which led to a 30-year delay. But your answer does not provide any convincing evidence as to why there is a delay of thirty years rather than a slight delay of a few years. I'm going to the 400-metre shutter. You're saying it's hard to assess at 600 meters. It is true, but it is exactly the same answer as a few years ago, when ONDRAF considered it difficult to assess beyond 230 metres. They did it for 400 meters, because you forced them there, and other people pushed them to go in that direction. To say that it is not easy to estimate the cost at 600 metres, that it would require a lot of study, and to be satisfied that this results in a failure to study the situation at 600 metres is a real problem. Why? The Federal Nuclear Control Agency, which I believe is, or was, the government's guide in this area, is asking for an evaluation beyond 400 metres. What ONDRAF does is an evaluation at 400 meters. We are therefore dealing, for the time being, with a non-response to the AFCN requirement on the part of ONDRAF. Madam Minister, I would like you to go back to ONDRAF and ask him to take advantage of the two years he's given, which you're talking about in your answer and which I wasn't asking you about, to launch a 600-metre cost study. We know it will take more time because it will require more study. But since they went from 230 meters to 400 meters, asking to go from 400 meters to 600 meters is not asking for the impossible, minister. At least on this point, could you give me your consent? I recall that the AFCN does not say to do a study at 400 meters, but "beyond 400 meters". I see that the debate is still open on the reversibility and recoverability side, about the exact period covered. We will come to that later. I insist, Madam Minister, on your reaction to the possibility of a 600-metre calculation. I'm not saying this has to be done in a week or two. They can give themselves time to calculate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u76	I'd like to take the step, but here's the real problem we have. Did you listen to what I said? It's not a matter of depth. Don't make me take bladders for lanterns. It is a question of the quality of the host rock, which can accommodate the waste; this host rock is located there and no lower. I said it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u77	In your answer you say two things. You say this rock is between 200 and 600 meters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u78	I don't think I said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u79	The famous worst box! Go back to your answer where you quote the 600-metre figure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u80	We are not going to reopen a debate on this. I will rest the question, but I think the answer is the one I have just given. That's what's written in what I'm answering. This is absolutely concrete and logical, since that is what I have just said to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u81	If everything you tell me was concrete, I wouldn't ask you so many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u82	May I propose that Mr. Nollet complete his reply to close the incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u83	On the other hand, minister, do not brag by saying that you have chosen the rock, since – precisely – the government has decided to dispense with this option, wanting to look at all the other possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u84	Mr Nollet, I will forward your question to ONDRAF. We'll see what he's gonna say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u85	I'm not just asking you to know what he thinks of it, but to order an evaluation of it, since you're the minister responsible. What about more than 400 metres?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u86	I consider the reply to be over, Mr. Nollet, and I thank you for that. I would like to comment on the organization of work. It seems to me that I am a flexible chairman in the management of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u88	It can be a quality or perhaps even a defect. Each Member is responsible for the content of his or her question and developments, and each Minister is responsible for his or her answer. The president does not intervene on the content. On the other hand, their respective duration does not consist of an average per commission, but relates to each question, which is subject to a maximum time limit. All of this is recorded and reported in full, but is also kept in mind. Sometimes the Speaker of the House reminds the committee chairmen to order, because in some of them – and in particular this one – there are times when the time allotted to questions is far exceeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u89	Mr President, I would like to add a word. It is important that the question be answered. If we do it a month later, the answer will necessarily be longer and even useless.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u90	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u91	Mr President, may I also make a request? Don't take it badly, because she's nice. Mr Nollet, I can quote from a lot of examples of questions that you have asked several times. You're gonna tell me that's because you didn't get an answer. That's a lot of questions, and it's good for you. Having said that, I sometimes have to repeat myself. Moreover, it is often the same collaborator who is responsible for preparing my answers to your multiple questions. He is therefore quite capable of referring you to my previous answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u92	As there are dishes of the day, there are questions of the day. This should therefore be answered, even if they are repetitive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u93	Madam Minister, we have been discussing security of supply for the winter 2018-2019 in the Committee on Business and Business for a long time. On 2 October we had a long meeting here. When it appeared that an additional capacity of 700 to 900 megawatts would be needed to get through the winter. Several slopes were suggested to get that capacity. Centrales will be restarted, namely Vilvoorde, Seraing, Ham and Langerlo. You have also made contacts with France and Germany. I have questions about the state of play regarding the various measures listed here. Madam Secretary, you signed a cooperation agreement with your German colleague. In response to a question in the committee on 17 October, you would have assured that there will be no loop flows between 17 and 20 hours. Can you tell us when our country can effectively count on that support from Germany? How much capacity will be available for our market? Secondly, France is also joining in. For November, the French network operator RTE has already confirmed that electricity may remain available for our market, even more than 1 000 megawatts. Since France is finalizing its winter plan, you would contact RTE again. Have you done that yet? If so, what are the conclusions? How much capacity could be available and when would that be the case? Thirdly, Luxembourg has also made a promise. We would be offered 200 megawatts of capacity, but because of a technical problem we would not have access to it. Can you explain why we do not have access to it? Is there any possibility of solving this technical problem? Fourthly, for the months of January and February, the task force is also considering the possibility of returning one of the nuclear entities whose unavailability was extended beyond the winter period to the grid from January onwards. Do you have any more news on that? What's the status? This is, of course, also an important task for the FANC. What information can you tell us about this? Finally, as of 24 October, Elia will publish weekly the forecasts for the coming weeks in a report that will be forwarded to you. Have you already decided that additional measures are needed? What are the prospects for the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u94	Madam Minister, as far as the 750 megawatts promised by Electrabel are concerned, I would like to know whether the problems relating to environmental permits are being solved. Of the 750 megawatts promised, how many are currently available? Has EDF also proposed solutions? Are you confident that the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors will be available again by the end of December? Finally, was Elia able to update his calculations to obtain a clear picture of security of supply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u95	Minister, what is the state of production, consumption and shortage for the months of December, January and February? Could you give us a more precise table of figures in this respect? During our exchange on 17 October, you announced that we would be able to transmit to us the recovery schedule of the units of Awirs, Langerlo and Drogenbos. Having not yet received it, could you pass it on to us? Also during our exchange on October 17, you announced that the robots that have to evaluate Doel 1 and Doel 2's four elbows would have completed their inspection around October 31. What did these inspections do? Are they likely to lead to a postponement of the recovery date of these two units or are you able to confirm these dates?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u96	Mr President, with regard to interconnections and loop flows, I will clarify some things. Mrs Dierick, we have asked for assistance from Germany and the other countries of the Pentalateral Forum for the entire winter period. The final capacity that will be available for our market will depend on the volumes available in Germany and the possibility of receiving German electricity from us through the transmission network and interconnectors. As I said in the committee on 17 October, the maximum capacity from Germany that we could benefit from is 2,000 megawatts. Germany, under normal conditions, will have no problem exporting to Belgium. As far as the network is concerned, the measures that are requested - and I have already mentioned - contain, first of all, good compliance with existing market rules such as the application of winter limits in order to increase capacity on the lines. However, it has been found that these measures are not always as well applied, while their impact on our import capacity can be enormous. These rules must not only be applied at peaks between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m., but at all times except when this would endanger the network. That is why we have asked Germany to reduce its loop flows. Further measures are requested and are new. They aim to increase the import capacity of our interconnectors. These measures can be invoked when the situation is tense in Belgium, typically during the evening peak but also, I repeat, at other times. Intensive and technical coordination is constantly taking place to reduce loop flows, and we are already seeing the positive effects today. For the period from October to December included, a special study was carried out at our request by TEN, the French network operator taking into account the hypothesis of a cold wave that occurs only once every ten years. During the worst week, thousands of megawatts are still available for export to Belgium. However, the full winter outlook for France is under way and the results will only be communicated in November. I spoke about the 200 megawatts offered by Luxembourg. I have invoked technical problems. I now have an answer. In fact, these 200 megawatts are a transport capacity that allows the maximum import of this power from Germany via Luxembourg. In practical terms, Luxembourg proposes to install a TSP at the Belgian-Luxembourg border in order to steer the flow of electricity in the right direction, so that it allows this import from Germany. However, the use of this TSP is not possible until 20 December. Work has been carried out until that date at a German high voltage station necessary for this transit via Luxembourg. Once this work has been carried out, it will be possible to import Germany via Luxembourg as far as several other factors permit, such as weather conditions. This is an additional option that Elia will therefore incorporate into its operational procedures. For the 750 megawatts, you already know the situation since we have had the return to the market of the power plant in Vilvorde of 255 megawatts since 22 October and since, with the licensing that was linked to it and which joins the answer that I made earlier in relation to the intervention of the Regions in this permitting, there has been the installation of generators at various sites in Flanders and Wallonia for 250 megawatts or more, temporary measures within the operator to increase the power on the existing power plants of 100 megawatts and a contract of erasing capacity with the industrial customers of Electrabel for more or less 200 megawatts. ENGIE Electrabel has also installed implicit demand management solutions for various industrial customers in order to allow them, at their discretion, to reduce their consumption in critical times. With regard to the installation of generators (diesel, gas turbines and others), ENGIE Electrabel obtained federal authorizations for all the sites concerned. I repeat that in Flanders, an order of the Flemish Government was issued setting out the beginning of the civil emergency situation, the deployment and installation of various generators concerned at their sites. It's all started. In Wallonia, environmental permits were obtained for the sites of the Awirs, Spanolux, Saint-Ghislain and, at the time of writing, were in progress for Amercoeur and Deux-Acren.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u97	You say "when the answer was written". What date is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u98	I've seen Belga pass. It moves every day. I ask my collaborator to look for the dates of return of these facilities. As you have no doubt heard in the press, EDF's CEEC plant in Seraing, accounting for 470 megawatts, returned to the market early, in particular on 15 October. In addition, EDF has temporarily restarted its CCEE plant in Ham since 22 October. This is good for an additional 52 megawatts. In addition, EDF's park can produce more than average at times of scarcity, resulting in additional 40 megawatts. For Objectives 1 and 2, I do not currently have any specific elements which call into question the date of return of these reactors. The decision is in the hands of the FANC and nuclear safety is paramount. I am certainly following this situation very closely. With regard to Elia's figures, every week a contact is made with the Network Manager to assess operationally the risks to the country's security of supply for the coming week. An assessment is made of the expected load, the available production stock, the weather conditions, especially if wind is expected, and an estimate of the imports needed to cover the need. This operational assessment is thus a first synthetic indicator to assess the sensitivity of the coming week in terms of risks to the ability to ensure security of supply. You see this on the Elia Forecast app, every eight days, for the next eight days. For now, there's no problem. The model used by the system operator to determine the need for strategic reserve is a statistical model which is to estimate, for the duration of a winter period, the statistical risks of insufficient means of production and import possibilities, in relation to electricity consumption requirements, taking into account the renewable potential and the flexibility of demand. Once the winter has started, which is the case now, the use of the statistical model is no longer relevant at all. Indeed, there is no longer any point in simulating a situation that is happening. The availability of the production fleet is known, weather conditions are estimated, consumption requirements can be deducted, etc. The forecasts for next week are good, as well as the weather. I'm waiting for the dates I'll let you know in the run-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u99	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u100	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We shall return to the matter. As I understand it, there is not yet a specific date for Doel 1 and Doel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u101	I do not yet have any information on this. Work has already begun with robots. But I haven't received any specific information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u102	Madam Minister, we therefore remain a little in the expectation for Doel 1 and Doel 2. We just know they started with robots. However, in your previous response, you stated that the work had to be completed by October 31. We are in November, which is why I should like to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u103	They're late. In fact, the robot needed to be refined or better configured to perform the examination. So they're late because of the robot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u104	I would like to draw your attention to this point because you know, like me, that any delay in Doel 1 and Doel 2 leads to a greater risk of shortage for the month of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u105	Security is the first virtue. It is imperative that the latter be respected. I assume you agree with me on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u106	I fully agree with you, but I draw your attention to this point. Indeed, remember the debates we have had. Electrabel said in committee that she warned us that we would be late and that we could have looked at the timetable. Today, you're sending us a signal saying there's a delay in Doel 1 and Doel 2. This means that in December – indeed, it is expected that these plants will return to the market in December – there is a risk of a delay. This does not mean that there will necessarily be a shortage, but that there will be delays in the timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u107	I don't think that's the point. There is a delay of eight days or that order. Any delay is always problematic depending on winter conditions. I agree with you on this point. But safety remains paramount.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u108	We agree. We're already running late. Let us take note of this and make sure that this is not a problem. That said, if I hear what you're saying – and I understand the logic that the predictive model no longer makes sense once you've entered the winter period – your visibility is actually limited to eight days. Unless you have - no longer on the basis of a projection model, but on the basis of a projection linked to the real - a greater visibility than over eight days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u109	I'll ask Elia the question. But if we follow the logic of the answer that has been communicated to me, once we are in reality, the weather conditions cannot be assessed beyond eight days. It's a basic answer, but it's the truth. In other words, you can make all the plans on the comet, you cannot evaluate the weather beyond eight days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u110	According to my information, what Elia does in the winter period is more than eight days. Of course, this is no longer the forecast model, but if so, can you send us this table? I think they send it to you once a month. It would be interesting to have information on these components, beyond the eight-day perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u111	They don't send me something once a month. I have a condition every eight days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u112	Beyond eight days, they work with a weather average of previous years. But they still have visibility over the entire winter that remains constant. They also introduce the return of the offer into the model.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u113	Mr Nollet, we can always play to scare ourselves with statistics that aggregate thirty winters, saying that beyond eight days, it could be terrible because, in such a winter, there was that, that and that. Today is November 6, 2018 and, like all over the world, the weather forecast is eight days away. All meteorologists will tell you. They are therefore working on a concrete basis. However, I will ask them the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u114	Even if the subject is probably sensitive, it must be possible to conclude at some point. Mr. Nollet, have you finished your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u115	Mr President, I think that by limiting ourselves to eight days, we are taking a huge risk. I would like to see clearer on January and February, not only according to the weather but depending on what will be available at that time in the supply, in the electricity production. This component exists, including consumption forecasts, even though they are related not to the worst of winters but to the average of past winters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u116	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to the newspaper L'Echo, the Flemish parties of the federal government oppose your plan to appoint your Chief of Staff as President of the CREG. The file would therefore be blocked. At the same time, the two positions of energy ombudsmen are also the subject of negotiations within the government. However, appeals could be brought against the selection procedure. This file would therefore also be blocked. Minister, do you confirm the news of the daily L'Echo? Can you tell us when the government will be able to provide these important functions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u117	Mr President, Madam Minister, the newspaper L'Echo of 25 October tells us that the Flemish partners of your coalition refuse to allow your chief of staff to take the lead of the CREG. Do you confirm this? What information do you have in this regard? What was the decision of the jury meeting on November 5? What is the status of Mrs Fauconnier's royal decree of resignation? According to the article, this text did not receive a green light at the Heads of Cabinet meeting. Do you confirm that? If so, do you confirm that the decisive argument is failure to comply with the notice and waiting period prior to the resumption of a new job? Beyond the use of such an argument, what really is it? Is Ms Fauconnier in a position to take up her new duties? When did she leave CREG? The same article finally tells us that the carousel of appointments has also turned into a nightmare for the two positions of energy mediators. Do you confirm this second element? What information do you have in this regard? Do you confirm that you agreed with Minister Peeters to put Mr. Svan Vaneycken on the Dutch-speaking side and your energy advisor, Mr. Salembier, on the French-speaking side? Do you confirm that Selor made a mistake in exempting these two candidates from the first test? How will you resume or continue this procedure? According to what calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have before me, of course, the article by L'Echo of 25 October, which I had read in its time. It is an exaggerating pen on the part of the two journalists who spoke. Nevertheless, some elements were interesting. First of all, I believe that the presidency of the CREG is of great interest to many people. It's a certain thing! However, in order to hold this position, it is necessary to pass the tests for anyone! These tests are carried out under the high hand of Selor. I'll start by talking about CREG. As far as the Ombudsman is concerned, I will read to you Selor's explanation of the origin of the problem. I now turn to the appointment procedure for the management of CREG. Ms Fauconnier was appointed in 2013 for a six-year term as head of CREG. I remember the enthusiasm for this appointment at that time, at the end of the federal legislature. It then came straight from the direction of DG Energy, which it had previously occupied. She passed and passed the exams and was then assigned to that position. From the moment she indicated that she was leaving, that fact had to be taken into account for the good and simple reason that she was linked to the CREG - an independent body - by a contract of employment and that even if her mandate was in time, if she did not want to give her notice, she had the freedom to do so, barely to be claimed by the institution itself a compensatory allowance for notice. There is another problem related to the fact that the sixth reform of the state changed the world of energy by regionalizing certain institutions that were previously all federal. In addition to these traditional rules of the employment contract that I have just mentioned, there is a particular rule that prohibits anyone working in the energy world from holding another position in the same world for a period of one year. It was valid at the time when this world was governed solely by federal law, before the sixth reform of the state. Since the division of powers had been modified by the sixth reform of the State and the legislation had not been amended, she could very well go to another institution, which now depended on the regional, without having to comply with that prohibition to enter such an institution for a year. In fact, she has made specific inquiries on this subject. The whole problem, in my view, is that it is necessary to put an end to its functions at CREG level. His legitimate wish is to leave and another board of directors of another institution wants to hire him after she has passed the tests. She has the complete freedom to do it. In my opinion, but I am quoting the date of submission, things have already been in effect since 1 November. I think I do. Of course, it is necessary to terminate its contract at CREG level. In my view, and according to a study that I commissioned at the government's request, the only way to do so is to provide for an end-of-service order. Now, what of the trials? You must know that a person cannot pass these tests because Selor felt that she did not have the prerequisites and that, at the latest, she intended to file an appeal. This candidate disagreed with the fact that he was considered to have no pre-requisites. I know very little, but there are two candidates who would have passed yesterday the case study test and the presentation before a jury appointed by Selor. I'm still talking about CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u119	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u120	She's obviously a candidate. I don't see what's against it. Mr. Nollet, please, let us not play the spooked virgins. Everyone has a freedom. Respect for the rules is a thing deeply rooted in a democracy that respects itself. Everyone respects the rules and is tested on his/her abilities if he/she wants to. That is what Mrs Fauconnier did at the time, and that is what the candidates are doing today, and we will see. That's all. I come to another point: the Ombudsman, the mediator or the mediators, since one on the French-speaking side and one on the Dutch-speaking side is needed for the energy mediation service. I can't help but read the letter sent to me on 26 October by Sandra Schillemans, Director General of the Recruitment and Development department, within the BOSA FPS (Beleid en Ondersteuning-Strategy and Support): "In accordance with what I have told you, I wanted to inform you of certain problems related to the above selection procedure. They were raised as a result of a complaint filed by one of the candidates." For the moment, two of them have been exempted from a test because they had passed the course - which is what is criticized by some who have failed - and can be appointed for each of the two linguistic roles to the post of Ombudsman. That's what seriously complicates the deal. I continue my quote: "The problems have been raised following a complaint lodged by one of the candidates and are such that the legal validity of the procedure cannot be guaranteed or restored by further actions." Mr Nollet, I would like to point out that this is the Selor. So it has nothing to do with me. I wish things were clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u121	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u122	Yes, yes, but when you read the articles, things appear differently. I would therefore like to re-establish the facts. "These are the following points. First, two of the successful candidates were wrongly exempted from module 1 - computer tests. It is contrary to the selection rules, which were published, but it is also a factor of inequality with the other candidates, including the person who filed the complaint. Secondly, the choice to have the procedure carried out by Selor, and all the more so by a Selor certificate from the SPF Economy, is not based on a sufficient legal basis." This is the problem which was already apparent in the appointment of the previous mediators. Ms. Schillemans cited the Act of 29 April 1999, article 27, § 3. "Thirdly, the choice of procedure which excludes candidates at each stage is also not based on a sufficient legal basis and is therefore questionable under the same article." She said to me: "I can therefore only advise you, now that the procedure has been completed and the results have been communicated to you, on the basis of the above and the dossier submitted to you, to stop the selection procedure and to inform all the candidates. Nothing prevents you from relaunching a new procedure on a more solid basis." She said to me: "I deeply regret the way this happened and I understand very well that it puts you in a difficult situation." Thank you, Mrs. Schillemans! She continued: "I have therefore agreed with Ms. Verveine of the FPS Economy that from now on, for all specific cases, specifically when a selection is requested for an organization outside the federal public service, the situation will be examined in advance by me so that we can analyze the entire legal context." Here, it was done by Selor certificates from the SPF Economy because the selection was requested by an organization that was not part of the federal public service and, therefore, it posed legal problems that she identified. She said to me in closing: "It is in any case excluded for me that such procedures may still be carried out by Selor certified agents under my final responsibility, without prior consultation and agreement on my part. Otherwise, and this case proves it, we cannot guarantee the expected level of quality. Please accept, etc." That is precisely what explains the situation. I believe that I will agree with Mrs Schillemans' advice and relaunch the procedure on absolutely unquestionable legal grounds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u123	Minister, thank you for the answers. If I understand correctly, Mrs Fauconnier will be able to take up her new position. Have you ever established a termination order?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u124	This is a project that I have presented to the government and that will now be associated with the legal study I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u125	Are we already aware of the timing of the transition to government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u126	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u127	It's a first thing. Secondly, for mediators who are fundamental people especially in this troubled period of energy, you will relaunch a procedure. How long will it take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u128	I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u129	How long has this procedure lasted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u130	I don't know. I'll ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u131	Four months, said Mr. Nollet. It's true that it's a emptiness...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u132	I'm married myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u133	I believe it is important to immediately restart the procedure in order to try to move forward as quickly as possible to select these mediators.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u134	I suppose I will be able to rely for some time on the ombudsmen currently in office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u135	That, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u136	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u137	As far as mediators are concerned, as they are officially called, they are boxing. We have to start all over again, of which act. You gave the explanation. As for Mrs Fauconnier's resignation, I note that it has been effective since November 1, 2018, which means that she is no longer there. On the other hand, the royal decree which gave effect to his resignation was still not taken. There, in my opinion, is a big gap that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u138	It's November 6th!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u139	Okay, but you went up to the government and that was refused. You must have done a legal study. You return to the government with a legal study and a draft royal decree but, in the meantime, it is no longer there. It's the CREG! It's the regulator!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u140	Mr Nollet, you know very well that the statutes and rules of procedure of the CREG - which you read every night and which is your bedside book - provide that it is the oldest one who takes the lead. Therefore, this is not a problem. Three Deputy Directors are here and can take over the leadership of CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u141	Madam Minister, you therefore consider that, legally, it is no longer there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u142	I don't think she's here anymore...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u143	You think or think she's gone? If she comes back tomorrow, can she make decisions or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u144	From the moment there is no termination order, she could.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u145	So she didn't leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u146	No! That's what I'm telling you! But I don't think she's here physically anymore. Both are not contradictory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u147	May I take it that the incident is closed, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u148	There's a big problem if she's gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u149	No, I don't think so. You're exaggerating again. There's no problem. The institution is fully capable – and this is provided for in its rules of procedure – of being held in all its functions and at the level of its management.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u150	The boss should've been here. She's gone. She comes back when she wants and the institution turns. It's all right in Belgium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u151	You think what you want, Mr. Nollet. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u152	Madam Minister, at the committee on 17 October, you indicated that you had commissioned a law firm to study the legal solutions to recover from Electrabel the surpluses due to the shortage. In La Libre, we learn today that you have requested a report from CREG on price increases. The newspaper in question was informed of this confidential report...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u153	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u154	It's a non-confidential version.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u155	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u156	Mrs Lalieux, during the previous committee, the president, Benoît Friart, together with the secretary, ordered the CREG...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u157	I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u158	You got it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u159	We can always count on Mr. Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u160	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u161	It shows that there is an increase in wholesale prices following the announcement of the closure of Tihange 1 and Tihange 3. In September and October, household bills would have increased by 40% and 28% for SMEs, at least for contracts that were not fixed. I'd like to know if the law firm has already provided you with a first report? If so, what are the legal arguments he proposes to the State? Are state lawyers in contact with Electrabel? Has the Belgian State officially ordered Electrabel to compensate for the surpluses caused by the shortage? Finally, within what time frame will consumers receive this compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u162	Minister, I have a lot of questions that overlap with those of my excellent colleague Mrs Lalieux. We carefully monitor the impact of your mismanagement on citizens' electricity bills. What is the result of the legal study commissioned from the law firm? Under what mechanism are you going to offer legitimate compensation? When will the consumer be compensated? In the analysis transmitted to us by the secretariat during the holidays, the impact will be EUR 100 for the Lambda consumer and around EUR 1 000 for the Lambda SME. But this impact will not be the total impact! Yesterday, we were told that prices were back on average. The weather helps and the supply is sufficient. Nevertheless, the study of CREG ended at a given date, as we asked to be clear quickly. We must now calculate the impact over the entire period and hope that there will be no changes in January and February. The impact on the total period will be higher than the 100 euros mentioned this morning in La Libre and in the note of the CREG. So I wonder if you already have the figure for the overall period and if you have launched a supplementary study. The difference will not be enormous since it is simply a matter of taking into account the additional weeks until yesterday, when prices seem to have resumed a normal cycle. Are we 200 euros for the individual?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u163	Mr President, I shall reply first to Mrs Lalieux. We sent a formal notice to Electrabel, who replied. We have also commissioned a law firm to investigate the ways in which Electrabel's responsibility can be activated. The firm presented the three general ideas in an IKW that took place on Friday, October 26, before Toussaint's leave. They are still at work on tracks that are not yet defined. We must, in fact, choose which one we will deepen. The work must be done in IKW as well as in government before making a choice. Each has strengths and weaknesses. The choice is therefore not only political. With regard to prices and CREG, I was delighted to read a nuanced article on this issue today in the press. Finally! As the CREG mentions in its report, the amount, which will be invoiced to the customer in the short and medium term, depends on the type of contract – fixed or variable supply – knowing that for the holders of a fixed contract, the difference is zero. The same is not true for those who renew their contracts when prices have risen. Mr Nollet, we are not yet in January or February. We do not yet know how prices will behave at that time. Today, from September 21 to the end of October, there is an increase as calculated by CREG, for fixed and variable contracts. These supply contracts differ according to the choices made by the customers. You know that 70% of contracts are fixed and 30% are variable. They depend on a series of parameters such as price indexation in the wholesale market contained in the contract, the start and end date of the contract and the time of invoicing. The impact of price increases on consumers' bills also depends on the length of time these high prices will be observed. You have to live it for a whole year, and that's what CREG says. Indeed, in fact - as I have already said before - in order to evaluate, especially with regard to a fixed contract, what is the case with a possible increase, by means, in particular, of the indexation parameter, one must have lived all year 2018-2019, all seasons combined. This will allow us to see how prices will behave in wholesale markets, depending on all the parameters we usually know, such as available production capacity, temperature, consumer needs, etc. The CREG already does. It follows prices in a normal way and will continue to do so, including for the coming weeks, during the winter. I hope, however, that we will have good news. I see a Belga dispatch from 12:05 p.m., about Doel 1, which I didn't have time to read. I see that things continue to move forward, so that the more production capacity returns to our circuit, the more guarantees we will have to keep a price level like the one we know today. Prices have returned to their level before September 21st, and that is good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u164	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to talk about getting the money back from Electrabel, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u165	This will depend on the track and the amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u166	There are three tracks and no choices have been made. It will therefore take a long time. I guess they're gonna challenge your lead and your claims, and the case is probably going to court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u167	They're challenging it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u168	I continue to say that energy is a basic necessity. You're gonna say it's a rengain, but it's more than just a rengain in my head. The fact that citizens must advance the money due to a lack of foresight in the context of security of supply on the part of the State is not acceptable. The State should act. You can still do this, within the framework of the program laws that will happen to us shortly. In any case, we will be tabling amendments, and there will be at least one that will aim at reducing VAT from 21% today to 6%. That the state then pays on Electrabel, it's very good. However, as the citizen will be slow to recover his balls because of this lack of foresight, I fear that he will find it difficult to pay his energy bills and that his purchasing power will continue to fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u169	Madam Minister, on page 35 of the document, we can still see that the impact is already real for many of our fellow citizens. The average consumption estimate is 3,500 KWh/year at a cost of EUR 110 over two months. This means that many of them had to pay that amount, even though they had not included it in their original budget. We also know that this amount will increase further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u170	They are only citizens who have entered into a variable contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u171	Did I say otherwise?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u172	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u173	Well?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u174	The consequence, Mr. Nollet, is that consumers take advantage of the declines and cash in the increases. It is therefore also a choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u175	Does that mean you're not covering these citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u176	Not at all. If one succeeds in demonstrating that the increase is abnormal and that it results from...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u177	But the study of CREG shows this!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u178	No, we'll see. That's another assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u179	This is clearly the conclusion of the report, but you haven't read it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u180	You're not the one who's going to...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u181	The study concludes that there is a clear relationship. As such, page 35 is interesting, since a comparison is made between Belgium, Germany, France and the Netherlands. On the curve, there is a clear increase of 110 euros. So, you'll have to say whatever you want, it's proven. There is no doubt that the cost could increase further. I come back to my question: why, when this has been demonstrated and quantified, do you wait so long before repaying the households concerned? I am also talking about SMEs, since most of them are immediately affected by such an impact. On page 36, we are talking about an increase of 900 euros. So you have to help them without delay, especially since in the meantime, the money comes into the state's coffers. I share the request made by my colleague, who wishes to introduce a pre-financing mechanism, that you recover the amount after you have consolidated your legal trail in collaboration with ENGIE Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u182	Madam Minister, on 17 October you told us that you were waiting for the advice of the Council of State. If I understand correctly, we probably won't have it until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u183	It's complicated and it takes a while. I'm not staring...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u184	Mrs. Lalieux, ask your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u185	Minister, has this opinion of the Council of State finally come to you? If so, what is its content?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u186	Minister, when did you send the text adopted at first reading in the Council of Ministers on 26 July to the Council of State? How long did you allow the Council of State to deliver its opinion? When did the Council of State deliver its opinion? If he hasn't handed it over yet, has he given you a date? If he has given it to you, what does the opinion of the Council of State say? What changes will you propose to strengthen the text adopted at first reading? What steps still need to be taken in this text before we reach Parliament? During our exchange on 17 October, you announced to professionals the question of whether your strengthened text would have to or be able to return to the Council of State. What about it? When are you planning to table this text in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u187	Mr President, I sent the text in the days following July 26, which was a Thursday. There's a good chance it'll be the next day. We can check if you really want the date...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u188	I'm a plaintiff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u189	This does not change much in relation to the history that we live for the good and simple reason – which you must know as well as I do – that we do not set a deadline in the Council of State, except when we ask for urgency and that it is duly motivated. I did not ask for urgency, because it is a complex text. In general, the law provides for the Council of State to react within 30 days. As we were in a summer period, these thirty days are increased to forty-five days. But the Council of State gives its opinion when it intends to give it back and when it is finalised within it. No one can intervene in the course of his reflection, since it is, rightly, an independent body. You know, as I said in my reply to Mrs Lalieux, that I do not have the opinion of the Council of State. I therefore do not necessarily know what the opinion of the Council of State says. I am not going to tell you what amendments I am going to propose to strengthen this text either. This opinion should at least be available to know what I will possibly propose as a reinforcement of this text. It's a little irony. As I have already described this morning – and we could have discussed it with some journalists – I have a draft strengthened legal framework for the CPN, in line with the burden given to me by the Council of Ministers at first reading of the CPN project on 26 July. We will see what will happen, depending on what will be decided by the Council of Ministers after this text has passed through the IKW, etc., but my opinion has always been and remains that there is no reason, certainly not for such complex texts, that this new text does not go through the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u190	Madam Minister, thank you. We await the opinion of the Council of State, but if I understand the last part of your reply, if you make any amendments to the text based on the opinion of the Council of State, you will refer it to the Council of State. That's what you said. This will therefore extend the time limit. I do believe that we will not have it until the end of the year. We, too, want to work on it properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u191	Minister, I do not understand that you have still not received the opinion of the Council of State on 6 November with regard to a text sent on 27 July. You are rejecting responsibility on the Council of State, which is in charge of its timetable. This is true, but even though I know better the situation of relations with the Council of State of the Regions than with the federal government, such a delay seems to me exceptionally long, even taking into account summer holidays. You say you sent him the next day. I take note of that. Furthermore, as my colleague says, the project will return to the Council of State a second time. I think this may lead us not only to the end of the year, but probably to the next legislature. This is much more worrying, because it is not obvious to reach an agreement within the government on such a text. You can see the ENGIE game behind the scenes. They'd better keep things going. I think we need to speed things up, we need to act and we need to have the public debate. The proposals are on the table. We have to move on. We cannot stay in this in-between at the risk of ENGIE winning just by playing the watch as others did in football in time. Minister, have you had the answer to the famous question that we were unable to address at this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u192	I'll send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u193	With Mr. Nollet, when there's no more, there's more!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u194	Mr. President, we did.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u195	Mr President, my colleague is not available, he is in a meeting. So I'll send it to you later this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u196	Mr President, I take note of the fact that this response will come to me later this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-06-54-commissie-ic991x.u197	The public committee meeting was adjourned at 12.26 p.m. The public committee meeting will be closed at 12.26 p.m.
