ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u2	Mr President, Minister, during this term of office a lot of jobs will be added in our country, and that is good, but many still remain devoid of employment. I therefore welcome the fact that, over the last few days, there has been renewed attention for those who find that there is an increase in jobs in this country, but who, by circumstances, are deprived of them independently of their will. In Flanders, for example, there are some 70 000 long-term unemployed who are looking for work but find nothing. You have heard that yesterday we again drew attention to the passage in the government agreement on community services. Today I also saw a proposal from the sp.a, on basic jobs, which is intended for the same target group. It was also positive to read in De Morgen today that together with Flemish ministers Muyters and Vandeurzen you are developing specific pathways for people with mental or mental difficulties who are looking for a job but who are very difficult to find one. They can now follow a specific pathway combining care and work. It would be about three thousand people across the country. I come to my specific questions. Minister, you will also notice that in our country, despite the growth of jobs, many people still do not find work. You are, of course, partly dependent on the regions, which have to do a lot together with you, as a federal minister. Can you shed some light on the initiative that came to the media today? What's the role of everyone in that? Apart from yesterday's discussion, do you see any other initiatives at regional level for the benefit of long-term job-seekers for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u3	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, I welcome the fact that proposals are being made, both from the majority and from the opposition, to provide a solution for the long-term unemployed who, despite many efforts, also because of the regions, are not getting to work. Firstly, I would like to look at every proposal in this respect, both from the majority and from the opposition. After all, this is an important problem that we must solve together. What can we, as a society, do to get people who have been unemployed for two or five years into work effectively? I appreciate any proposal that has been formulated in recent days. Secondly, I know that we have given powers to the regions, but I also think it is very important that we continue to look for a solution to the problem of open vacancies, on the one hand, and the unemployed, on the other. There is a lot of work to be done to ensure that they are better aligned, because now there is a mismatch. I totally disagree with those who point the finger at the unemployed every time and say that there are open vacancies that are not filled. The problem is more complex and requires nuance. For example, there are waiting lists for training courses for bottleneck occupations. They need to be eliminated as soon as possible. Thirdly, in Flanders and Belgium, your question was also addressed by a group of MMPPs. These are young people who are incredibly difficult, because they have to go through life with many flaws, mentally, motorly or psychologically. What are we doing with this group? That's the worst group in the sector of people who don't have a job. In the Summer Agreement, we have obtained a two-year extension for this target group, which would normally be discontinued from 1 January 2018. That brings a little peace to the business. Furthermore, we in the government have agreed that we will seek a definitive solution for those people. We discussed this with the regional colleagues yesterday. For this very important and vulnerable group, we want to work out a definitive arrangement in the future. I think it is very positive that not only we but also the regional ministers are prepared to give this group the necessary future in very difficult circumstances, given their shortcomings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The latter group is indeed a very vulnerable group, which deserves our attention. It is a good thing that together with the regional ministers who can effectively give people a place in society, halfway within the labour market, you are not yet fully in it, so that at least the routine and social contact can be reduced and so that these people can regain a network from which they can grow. That was also the thrust of the proposal we made yesterday. It's not meant to be a hard proposal. It's meant to write a socially integral story. However, yesterday it struck me and disturbed me that there is a degree of complacency within one region, where it is actually said that everything is going well, it is about Flanders............................................................................................................................................................................................................ When I hear you say that there are waiting lists for certain bottleneck professions, I think that the regions that think they are already here today and the Ministers of Work who think they have already realized everything today will have to think a step further. If only 10% of the long-term unemployed are in the neighbourhood, and if such training is still open, then it is time to step up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u5	Deputy Prime Minister Peeters will answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u6	Mr President, Minister, it will not be my group that will defend the Laurent report. He may be heir to the throne, but only in the eleventh knothole: he will never ascend the throne. For us, that dot may well disappear. The law of November 2013 is a bad law, it is only a win for life for Laurent and Astrid. Not only in the context of the dotation, the law of November 2013 is a bad law, also in the context of the disciplinary procedure. When we look at the ongoing disciplinary proceedings against Prince Laurent, we see that the government is the investigating body and the Chamber is the decision-making body. I can only say that we are political bodies, and they cannot really be independent. I do not see that we could be independent and impartial judges in this case. Mr President, you would probably prefer to hold a closed session in the context of this session rather than an open meeting, but all right. The Prime Minister seems to be asking a lot of questions about the way in which the lawyer conducts the defence. Apparently, a letter has been sent threatening a second procedure. The lawyer should also respect the royal powers and adapt to them. So he is asked to remain generously silent. We don't think Laurent has a right to a donation, but he does have the right to defend himself. The way he does that, he chooses himself. I don't think he needs the Prime Minister's advice for that. Master Arnauts rightly states that the law is unclear, contrary to the Constitution and human rights. I can only agree with him on that. Minister, has such a letter been sent? If it has been sent, it seems to me that it is the right of all Members of this House to receive the letter in the context of this investigation. Is the government prepared to amend the 2013 law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, I have received an answer to your question from the Prime Minister, who apologizes. First of all, you know very well the law of 27 November 2013. This law contains rights and obligations. I will not go into that further. After the unauthorized participation of Prince Laurent in military costume at the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Chinese army in July of last year, the Prime Minister, at the Council of Ministers of 1 September 2017, was given the mandate to hear Prince Laurent. During September several letters were exchanged with Prince Laurent's lawyer, who exercised his right to be represented. Time has been taken to analyze all the pieces of the file. Following this exchange of views and analysis of the file, the Council of Ministers decided on 14 December 2017 to propose to the Chamber a 15% retention on the Prince's donation for the year 2018. The Chamber was immediately informed of this decision and all useful documents of the file were delivered to the President of the Chamber. No other decision has been made. The Prime Minister can confirm that, following certain positions taken by the Prince's lawyer in numerous media, he wrote, inter alia, the criticism of the law on the donations, on 20 December 2017 to the prince to remind him of his duty of restraint which he must respect, pursuant to Article 20 of the aforementioned law. The Prime Minister did not propose to the government to initiate a new procedure. There is a procedure currently under way at the level of the Chamber, which will give its opinion on this matter. The government does not intend to intervene in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the Prime Minister's reply. You're talking about a letter that was sent. Apparently there would be a threat of another procedure. You do not confirm this, but you do say that there is a request for restraint, including from the lawyer. This will, of course, be a problem. I hear some of my colleagues from the majority say that the procedure is absolutely irrelevant if Laurent is punished. However, the procedure itself is very important, because at the moment it is going to be a nice mess. If that letter was sent effectively, then this is the icing on the cake and the government is doing well to give Master Arnauts enough ammunition to go to court. The big problem is that every year EUR 650 000 tax money goes to Astrid and Laurent. The question is what should they do for that. We simply believe that this law should be abolished. Now the government proposes to withdraw EUR 43 000 from Laurent, albeit once. Just get rid of the law, though. After all, since 2001 Prince Laurent has already received 5 million euros of taxpayers' money, with the following question: to do what? When we look at that, Laurent is the king too rich.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, for the proper organisation of our work, I propose that Mrs Winckel ask her question now. That way, we can free the Deputy Prime Minister. Subsequently, we will follow the prescribed order, that is to say, the questions addressed to Mr Geens and to Mrs Demir on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u10	Mr. Chair, Minister, you announced to the VRT an initiative to regulate recall procedures and to provide that the first invoice reminder can now be free of charge. Finally, a positive initiative for consumers; finally, an initiative that goes beyond simply transposing at least a European directive! I really hope that this is not just an announcement effect, but that it will be followed by facts and that action will be taken in this area. Because, indeed, you set foot in a really important file on which we have been working, at the PS level, for several years. On the one hand, as we know, there is anarchy at the level of recall fees. Five euros apiece, fifteen euros apiece... There is no homogeneity, no hindrance, and some companies take advantage of it to stir up millions of euros in the cost of reminders. And on the other hand, there is the whole question of recovery intermediaries and abusive practices, in particular of certain bailiffs who sometimes act with the complacency of their Order. The PS wants to curb this debt industry, which can even be called, in some cases, an "indebtedness" industry. We have already tabled bills that have two main objectives. The first is precisely that these bailiffs and lawyers can be subject to the control of the Economic Inspectorate, as well as the collection companies. The second is that these recall procedures are better regulated, in particular by capping or setting collection rates in the law. These bills have already been swept away by this majority and you have issued negative opinions on these matters. But without despair, we have retabled legislation, which has been latent for a year now. Minister, my questions are simple. What are you planning to stop the debt industry? Will you support the bills that we have tabled in the House? Today you are announcing a consultation with the distribution companies and regional ministers responsible for the water and electricity sectors. Will your action be limited to these two sectors or will you extend it to all consumer contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Winckel, you are right, and your voice is not the only one to speak out clearly against this unacceptable debt industry! It is necessary to act, but I am not the only one who has to intervene. The Minister of Justice, Mr Geens, the Secretary of State for the Fight against Poverty, Mrs Demir, and I are responsible for consumer policy. As far as the legal aspects are concerned, my colleague and Minister of Justice will answer you. But as far as recalls are concerned, I have taken action by inviting the responsible regional ministers to find a solution, not only for the water sector but also more broadly, so that the first reminder is free of charge. We need to check who has legal responsibility and how to merge this aspect into a law. As far as the consumer aspect is concerned, which falls within my remit, I have already undertaken a few actions and I am in the process of preparing measures in this area. I give you four examples. First, to impose greater regulatory compliance on donors and to strengthen regulation. Secondly, to limit administrative costs in order to avoid additional costs; it is with my colleague that we must find a solution by setting a precise ceiling. Thirdly, to tackle the root causes of the problem by avoiding people's indebtedness through the control of consumer credit. Fourthly, strengthen the rules of the cashing offices to which we will impose new measures as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear you're not the only one responsible. But you're the one who buried our bills. The progress you're talking about could have been voted on at least three years ago. With the support of the entire sector. Even today, the bar associations and bailiffs have joined us. It is deplorable to have to wait. I hope that this is not an announcement effect and that we will be able to count on the government as a whole to act really. Your measure of ensuring that the first reminder is free is very lukewarm if you confront it with the magnitude of the problem. We're really dealing with abuses. I have not heard anything about the control of these bailiffs, which I deplore. I will allow myself to return to the subject. If you have any questions about the costs that can be claimed in these cases, please be aware that our bills suggest solutions with the consent of the collection offices and the various actors in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Winckel. The incident is closed, but we will return to it with all those responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u14	Mr President, Minister, what crimes lead to the most deaths in our country? We often do not think about it, but it is the traffic offences. It's more than seven hundred deaths a year in our country, about sixty a month. That's a lot of high school classes. The number of victims in our country is also much higher compared to other countries. In order to reduce these figures, a global approach is needed. In our complicated country, this means that we have to look at the local authorities, where there are a lot of responsibilities, at the regions which also have responsibilities, but also at the federal level, which still has an important role to play. For example, enforcement is a very important task. We all know the PDO campaigns that have been going on for years. People know them very well, but they know above all that there can be a lot of checks in December and January and they adapt. In fact, this effort should be continued throughout the rest of the year. It should not be limited to that period, because this creates a feeling that the January month is over, that it will be calmer again and that the number of checks will be reduced. The chance of getting caught must be increased every month of the year. This requires efforts by local police, but also by federal police. Minister, we have talked about this many times. Of course, we have had a whole round of savings and we also know that the capacity of the federal police has been put under pressure, but my question is quite simple. Would you like to commit yourself to making these efforts with the federal police? The government agreement stated that one in three drivers should be checked every year. The figures fluctuate around 17 %. Those checks need to go up, and that requires more police deployment. Would you like to commit yourself to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u15	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, ladies and gentlemen, the problem you are raising is a problem which concerns the whole of the hemisphere. I'll give you some numbers. In 2010 there were 841 road deaths in this country. Your figures are not quite correct, because in 2016 637 people died. The figures for 2017 are not yet known, but the trend is a decrease. That is a question of numbers, but as long as a dead man is still in traffic, efforts are still needed to avoid it. Today there are not only the two BOB campaigns in winter and summer, but also traffic weekends with specific controls. That is the campaign, and I think that we are doing a good job and are efficient. However, you are right to say that this should not lead to a lower alertness at times when no campaigns are being conducted. I have therefore ordered the federal police to step up their efforts in the times when there are no campaigns. Local police are also sensitized to this. It is true that road police have fallen below capacity due to years of savings. We are now systematically raising capacity. Priority was given to the terra-related departments. However, the work continues. The road police should also fit in with that picture. That is what capacity needs to be added. The order for this is given. I'm on the same page as you and your party, Mr. Van Hecke. I understand she's making a big point of that. I'm at your side at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u16	Minister, although we sometimes differ strongly, sometimes we can also find each other. Whether it's six hundred or seven hundred road deaths, it's still huge. I think we all have the same objective here. We want to get this number down considerably. Years ago, the campaign was:go for zero. That is the very ambitious long-term objective. I welcome your answer when you say that you will make additional efforts at the level of the federal police. Indeed, the savings have had an impact on the capacity and employability of police services. That has to be stopped. When it comes to human lives, there must be no saving. I think it's clear. The number of checks must increase significantly if we are to save more lives. You will find a partner in us to support these measures in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u17	Minister, the fresh President of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa, wants to expropriate the white farmers in his country without compensation. The South African Parliament approved a motion by Julius Malema, a Marxist opposition member who ruled in 2016 that he did not call for the slaughter of white people, "at least for the time being." In doing so, the Parliament instructed a committee to draw up a constitutional review the day before yesterday, so that it would be possible to rob white farmers. That has also happened in Mugabe's Zimbabwe. From Africa's grain barn, that country evolved into a chaotic area of famine. As in neighbouring Zimbabwe, this will also lead to violence against white farmers in South Africa, extra violence, because since South Africa became a multicultural paradise, the African farming community is very often confronted with violent crimes. Almost every day there are violent so-called murders and there are no limits to the horror involved. The victims are often kept alive as long as possible to torture them as long as possible. There are even cases where babies were wrapped in newspaper and set on fire. Mr. Secretary, I've been interviewing you on a regular basis about the platter attack and platter killing. Of course, this is not mentioned in the media, because it does not fit in with the multicultural image. However, that does not prevent me from asking you today about the Government's position on the worrying developments in South Africa. Do you share my concerns and, if so, will you address the South African Government? Does it have any effect on cooperation with South Africa, if that country effectively pursues its plans for the organised theft of agricultural land?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u18	Mrs Pas, with regard to the massacre, I refer to my answer to the same question you asked in February last year. In general, there is a very sharp increase in violent crime in South Africa and, in particular, the problem of farm murders. We are in contact with the South African authorities, who have always said that a reduction in crime is a priority and that it is working on it. The situation of farmers in South Africa is specific. This is not just for political reasons. The farmers live isolated outside the city. For police officers it may therefore be very difficult to provide the same protection as in a larger city. In any case, we are continuing our contacts on the dramatic situation in South Africa. For the rest, it is true that the ANC Congress has decided to proceed to land expropriation without compensation. There were preliminary discussions in Parliament on this subject, and this point is now being discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Reform. We have heard and read that President Ramaphosa considers it possible to support that principle, albeit under certain conditions. For example, agricultural production must increase, food safety and security of supply must be increased and the country returned to those who took it during colonialism and apartheid. The theme is very controversial. That is why we are also in contact with the government in South Africa, in cooperation with our European colleagues. We will ask the South African President and Government to correctly apply all national and international obligations. The correct application of all South Africa's international commitments in this respect will be followed very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u19	Minister, Interpol has already mentioned farming in South Africa as the most dangerous profession in the world. Now massive expropriation and, in fact, a new apartheid are becoming the horrible prospects in South Africa. You say you share my concern and you say you are attentive, but you are doing nothing to protect the African farming community from state terror. However, our government can exert real pressure on South Africa. It is an important trading partner and a partner in development cooperation. On the website of Foreign Affairs, it says that South Africa is an important partner for Belgium, working constructively in the search for peace, security and democracy throughout Africa. You should urge the South African Government that peace and security are important not only in their neighbouring countries, but first and foremost in their own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u20	Mr President, Minister, a month and a half ago, I raised only the issue of the debt industry. I am therefore very pleased that this issue is now being addressed by other colleagues and is also being dealt with by two ministers and a Secretary of State. Last night many were rightly woken up by what they were seeing in the reportage Pano on the VRT. Mr. Secretary, I hope you've been watching as well. There were poignant images of people who no longer see the light at the end of the tunnel by the inhumane debt industry. Whole charms are often sold without paying off any debt. That is unworthy of our society. Unfortunately, it is the reality for 365 000 Belgians. It could happen to you and anyone. Minister, do you think it is logical that an invoice of EUR 53 should amount to EUR 860 or 16 times the original amount? That's just one of many examples. Some debt collection agencies, bailiffs and lawyers are dormantly rich because of the misery of others. The more income from unpaid debts, the more fun for them, the more cash register, cash register, cash register. A new industry has been created, the debt industry. Normally we at the sp.a are happy with new industries. However, we are not happy with this industry; we do not support it. Please note, a debt has to be paid off. Let there be no doubt about that. But it is not the fault that is the problem, but the unbridled cost that is always involved in that debt. I am thinking of litigation costs, issuing costs, subpoenas, abbreviation rights and so on. It never stops. Minister, I dare to ask you the same thing again. I ask once again for support for our ten legislative proposals. Our proposals include independent checks on lawyers and bailiffs. Now they control themselves, and that does not make sense. We also want to halve the costs of the bailiff and we want to impose free mediation. Mr Minister, are you prepared to support the ten legislative proposals I presented to you a month and a half ago? If so, when can I put them to the vote in the Justice Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u21	Madam Secretary of State, welcome back to our midst and congratulations on the birth of Rozanne. [[Applause]] Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State, yesterday a Panoreportage was broadcast on television in which people were speaking in poverty. They were faced with debt and talked about their experience with bailiffs. For example, it was seen that a small invoice amount still to be paid could quickly reach a large amount due to the additional costs. Thus one finds oneself in a situation where one has to pay more costs than the effective amount of the debt. That is not the intention, of course, because this is the way to push people deeper than necessary into poverty. So there is a snowball effect that pushes people deeper into poverty. The fees of the bailiffs are fixed, but the costs are still high. A lot of bailiffs realize that, too. We saw in the reportage a good example of an initiative by the bailiffs, especially MyTrustO. In doing so, they seek to move towards a more ethical way of recovering debts. However, more initiatives and further steps are needed. Before the Panoreportage there was a broadcast by Terzonder, in which Professor Verbeke said that the role of the bailiff might need to be changed, in the sense that the bailiff should become more of a mediator. There are initiatives on the ground, but perhaps they need to be more institutionalized. So there's room for improvement. Madam Secretary of State, what are your initiatives? What do you think of the problem? What will you do, so that debts can be recovered more fairly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u22	Mr President, Minister, many people saw the Panoreportage last night, either at the time or afterwards. This is a problem which we have been aware of for a long time, namely the problem of debt and debt recovery, which is often linked to poverty and in which people are left out. Not much needs to be done to get into a spiral of debt. This can happen to people with a normal income, for example through illness or after a divorce. Such factors can cause people to be confronted with debt and find themselves in a difficult situation. It is important to be able to intervene in one way or another, to rectify the situation. One of the elements that the Justice Department has worked out in this context is the whole issue of debt mediation. In this context, Mr Bonte, I would point out that we took initiatives on debt a long time ago by making the conciliation procedure more fluid. Other initiatives have since been taken to improve efficiency in this area. This can continue in the future. At the same time, it is important that we try to avoid the problem of debt and, of course, this will have to be done at the level of consumer credit and so on. It is also important to play the ball as short as possible as soon as the payment periods are exceeded or as soon as debts are not paid. We all agree that it is not possible for the costs of collecting the debts to be higher than the debts themselves. Of course, debts must be paid, but recovery must be done in a humane and humane way and not through solutions that push people even deeper into poverty. So, Minister, we must look for mechanisms to avoid such costs. I am thinking here of the initiative of MyTrustO, which has grown from Beweging.net and which is used effectively by a number of housing companies and by the province of Flemish Brabant. However, there is a need to broaden the scope. It can be learned from this that it is important that court bailiffs also examine how they can minimise their costs, how they can cooperate and mediate, and how they can assess whether or not to recover a debt. After all, it cannot be that collecting a debt costs more than the debt itself. It is important to take into account in a cost-saving system that no more can be asked than what can ultimately be collected. Mr President, what structural measures do you see for the collection in the areas of justice for which you are responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u23	Mrs Lambrecht, Mrs Becq, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I also saw Pano's report last night. I thought they were very well made. She's exposing a problem we've known for a long time. What has the Justice Department done so far on the wider issue of bailiffs? The court fees in criminal matters on bailiffs' subpoenas have been reduced by 25%. That happened a long time ago. The draft law on various provisions currently before us in the Committee on Justice better regulates and emphasises the intermediary role of bailiffs, the Commissioner on execution, which Professor Verbeke spoke about last night. The European seizures regulation has also been transposed into that draft containing various provisions of civil law. As far as the legal professions are concerned, you know that we order a number of experts to start reform plans by profession. Soon I will be asked about the study that was made for the lawyers and published on the Justice website on Monday. There'll be one for bailiffs, too. We will ask, among other things, what should be done about the age limit for bailiffs, which is currently non-existent. We will ask what should happen to the replacements of the bailiffs. A bailiff is supposed to work 365 days a year, 7 days a 7, 24 hours a 24. Of course, no human being can do that. How many days can he be replaced? Also in the field of deontology questions will be asked to properly re-evaluate the obligations and duties of bailiffs. We have already reviewed the insolvency legislation in relation to the work processes and the methods of settlement of debtors. It was due to enter into force on 1 May. The collective debt regime for private individuals is also being examined in depth and is currently under discussion in the Interkabinets Working Group, also with a view to a platform that will be established. You will have heard that I hope that the costs spent on the recovery of a debt could be limited to a certain percentage of the total debt. I proposed 40%. We must increase the goods and revenues that cannot be confiscated; now they are pets and similar things. In any case, we must have the bailiff's costs even more transparently and without any abbreviation. Mrs Lambrecht, I know your proposals for legislation. I have already said it to you, in response to a previous question. There's three of us now, and there's four of you. In any case, we must try to get a better view of this and take it into account in our reflection which will be thorough, you can count on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I understand correctly, we all agree that the cost of collection should never exceed the debt itself. There are 363 573 Belgians registered with defaults on loans and almost one in five people in poverty have at least two late payments in basic provisions, such as rent, electricity, gas, health care or mortgage. As Secretary of State responsible for the fight against poverty, I am very concerned about this and I have also included the issue in my policy paper. We have discussed this and my cabinet is putting forward a number of solutions. I am glad that colleagues Geens and Peeters are also working on solutions. I suggest that we get together on this very quickly. If debts are to be incurred, it is better that we have a legal framework to settle them kindly. We must focus on the prevention of debt and therefore avoid the need for a bailiff. I would like to put three elements on the table, which we are already working on. Firstly, I note that there are no uniform rules on the cost of reminder letters, as is the case in other countries. We must work on this. Those rules of the game must be more just. I believe that the new telecoms law can be a good example, which states that a first warning is free of charge or at real cost. Secondly, I note that too little immediate payment plan is proposed. Let us develop a standardised procedure. Thirdly, I note that there is also a late referral to debt relief. We see that people in poverty do not always find their way, so moving on in time avoids some of the rising costs. As far as bailiffs are concerned, I agree with the answer given by my colleague Geens. My cabinet and I are at the disposal of our colleagues to find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answers. Minister, it is a good thing that much has already happened with regard to bailiffs and that you will do a lot, but there are 365 000 Belgians still in trouble. This means that much more needs to be done. We must not concern ourselves with the age or replacement of bailiffs, but with their inhumane behaviour and the inhumane charging of high costs, which no one understands. I am very glad that Secretary of State Demir is here, because the debt industry is really underexposed when it comes to poverty and disadvantage. It is good that we unite with many people. There are seven of us, including five powerful women. I hope it will progress from now on. We welcome your support, from the two ministers and from the Secretary of State, but we want real action now. I also ask for the support of the hemisphere, beyond party boundaries, because the debt industry is not something of the majority or opposition, but of all of us. Today's complimentary day. I'll give you a compliment because you've given me good answers. Minister Geens, you know I'd love to give you a present, and so I'll give you our ten legislative proposals again, so you don't forget them. [[Mrs Lambrecht is handing over a package of legislative proposals to Minister Geens.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u26	Minister, Madam Secretary of State, I am pleased that concrete initiatives are already being taken, and it is also good that the three members of the government who are involved in this issue, which is not limited to one area, will work together to take concrete action. There is, after all, a imbalance between the debt and the associated costs. This problem needs to be addressed. Mrs Lambrecht, I would just like to say that I am very pleased that initiatives are being taken now by the opposition, but this problem is not new. He's been around for over 20 years, and it's only now, since you've been in the opposition, that we've been taking initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is sometimes the impression that there is a demand for debt recovery, but that is why we in the Chamber should not decide who is most concerned with the debt problem. I note that, in the history of this issue, progressive measures have been taken by different governments, different ministers and different parties to address debt issues. We are indeed faced with the fact that people cannot pay their debts for various reasons. Debts must be recovered, but they must be collected in a humane way. It is not possible to make large sums of money at the expense of people who cannot pay. That's the point. Several initiatives have been promised, or are already in operation, by different ministers from their different responsibilities. Minister, I do not have a present for you, but I promise you very solemnly that I will give you our vote, not only for me, but for our group as a whole, at the moment when there will be proposals here to do something effectively about cost control and cost prevention in the bailiffs and in the recovery of debts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u28	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was called out of my bed early this morning, and this happens more often than not because of the fact that a young man from Vilvoorde was not allowed on the plane. The reason for that was that he was in a database years ago. That wasn't right, and he got pulled out of there, too. In any case, the police services at the airport were poorly informed about this; hence their decision. Mr. Secretary of State, such incidents often occur. People lose their safety badge in front of the airport and they are denied access, and afterwards it turns out that this is wrong. Children are not allowed to go on a school trip abroad, and that is also proven to be wrong afterwards. Such incidents underline the importance of creating precise, precise, well-defined databases, which are well managed. It is essential in the fight against terrorism and other crimes to have well-organised, well-defined databases that function in a dynamic way. I am sure you have taken note, as we have seen, of the report on the terrorist database drawn up by the Committee I. This will also be discussed extensively in the paper today. There are many problems: some people are in the database for too long; people who had to be removed from the database for a long time remain in it; or still, there is no control of use. The most fundamental problem is that there is no legal basis for the homegrown terrorist database. The security services will be instructed by you and the Minister of Security to build that database, while we are still waiting for a KB today. Minister, this illegal situation threatens to cause problems not only for those included in it, but also for the security services themselves. My question is double. What conclusions does the government draw from the report on the evaluation of the database on the table? Where is the necessary legal basis on which our security services should be able to rely?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u29	Minister, when you were in the United States, you probably heard the adage several times that it is important to have the information but that it is even more important to share the information, to share the information. One of the main conclusions of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the attacks of 22 March was the question of how we can ensure that information can circulate as much as possible between all our services, such as police and intelligence services. I come to the problem of databases. Our country has always played an exemplary role in providing and sharing the information. I can refer to what the Director of Europol has come to testify on our committee. I believe that Belgium should not be blamed for this, quite the contrary. Following the conflicts in and around Syria, the OCAD has established a database. There are the foreign fighters and there are other categories. I'm just thinking about the hate preachers and the homegrown terrorists. If the OCAD maintains such a database, it is important that there are certain legal safeguards, including in the implementing decisions. The Committee I raises critical questions. It asks about privacy and how a citizen ends up in such a database. Also important is the answer to the question, for whomever will ever get into it, how one will be removed from the database. Who has access to such a database? I share Mr Bonte's concern that the position of the mayors is very important. They must, as far as possible, know what is happening in the territory of their municipality. You know that first set of questions, Minister. You also got them through the media this morning. My supplementary question is as follows. The new crossroads bank is, of course, central to the implementation of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. For me, it's not just about the OCAD. There are also other police and intelligence services. Our parliamentary committee of inquiry recommended that, as the Minister for Social Affairs has the crossroads bank for social affairs, there should be a crossroads bank for this too. In other words, how should we build bridges? How will we ensure that people know what is being worked on, that maximum information is exchanged between the different services and institutions? Only through better cooperation and synergy can we fight terrorism and terrorism more effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, in this case, mayors, I believe that Belgium does not need to blush when it comes to our OCAD legislation. She dates from a very good time. It is a law made by very distinguished colleagues and it still serves today. The database of foreign terrorist fighters was, of course, built as a result of terrorist attacks abroad and with us. In 2016, a new law was passed that provides the legal basis for such a database. For every type of terror, we need a KB. We have a KB for the FTFs, we need one for the homegrow terrorist fighters now, and we also need one for the hate preachers. These two Royal Decrees are now before the Commission for the protection of privacy and the Council of State. The legal basis will therefore be in order by when the database will be fully operational. You will forgive us if we are already preparing them. If you want us to wait and prepare for that legal basis, we're gonna lose time. Losing time isn't in our dictionary. You are right to point out that we have recently also received the report from the Committee I and the COC. They have told us that there are a number of things that need to be improved in terms of the flow of information, access and ventilation of people who no longer meet the conditions. The LTF Working Group has already met twice on the recommendations of the Committee I and the COC. We will follow these recommendations within the shortest possible time. I would like to reassure you that we are systematically ventilating people, as it is called. That means we're removing them from the list. You also referred to my presence in the United States a short time ago. I have, of course, spoken with staff from the NCTC, the OCAD of the United States. The New Yorker who's in charge of the attack has been a little bit under the radar. From the moment someone stays under the radar, you will come here and ask me why that person has remained under the radar. However, when a person is still on it, but should not be on it anymore, you ask why he is still on it. Both questions are more than justified, but unfortunately the perfection is not of this world. We cannot create a zero risk in this area, only follow up as closely as possible and share the information. Finally, I would like to refer to the database of the future, the crossroads database requested by Commission President Dewael. At the moment we are consulting with the Minister for Security's cabinet, Mr Jambon, and with the experts Bruggeman and Van Daele, to know exactly what this database should look like. A first task, the preparation of a preliminary study, has been entrusted to the Coordination Committee on Intelligence and Security, which advises the National Security Council. The architecture of that crossroads database will be very important. In the United States, for example, a database of 1 300 000 terrorists is used, a unique database at the NCTC. A crossroads database is something else. We're working on it. We will submit this to your committee for follow-up. Just give us a moment to make our final religion about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u31	Minister, I would like to repeat my opinion. I believe that a good database, a good collection of data, is essential in the fight against all kinds of phenomena including terrorism. So I have no point of criticism in that regard. In view of the crossroads bank, I hope that the government has already counted the exact number of databases that exist today at federal level. I remember the whole discussion on that number. I am not happy to say that, but because I also see in the field that different databases are not aligned. Let me give you an example of the Channel Plan: databases between different police zones, though on Brussels territory, each speak their own language, there are different data and they use different software. Even at that level, we are not yet able to achieve uniformity. Part of your answer surprises me somewhat, because I read something else in the report. You say that a list of homegrow terrorists has not yet been drawn up because you are waiting for it on a legal basis, but you are in full preparation. Minister, you should know that local police zones and mayors have a duty to link policy conclusions on succession to the fact that someone is on the list. Today, people who are listed in a database must be followed by instructions from the Home Office while there is no legal basis for that database. Once again, I would like to call on you not to wait for the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry and to provide a legal basis tomorrow, if only to prevent the police and security services from getting seriously messed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u32	Mr President, it is a complimentary day and so I thank you for the compliment on the architecture of the OCAD, a body for the threat analysis that was set up in 2006. Mrs. Onkelinx will remember this very well. We are talking today about the databases. You have referred to the law of 2016. The findings of the Committee of Inquiry are that there are huge numbers of databases in our country. You have now received comments about the database of the OCAD and you will answer them. Our concern is how we can better find out who is doing what. With databases in the police, the judicial police, the security of the state, the military intelligence service and the OCAD, I believe it is of the utmost importance to implement the principle of a crossroads bank. Everyone needs to know who's doing what. Each piece of the puzzle must be able to be brought together to complete the puzzle. That's pretty much the heart cry of the Committee of Inquiry. I would suggest that the government does not wait too long to implement that recommendation. I don't think everything can be done in one day. The second anniversary of the events of 22 March is approaching. In the coming weeks, we will zoom in on the position of the victims, because that is what is needed. As far as security architecture is concerned, I believe that the creation of that crossroads bank is a priority. I believe that this is what I want to say to the committee as a whole. It would be a pleasure for the Minister and the Government to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have received the voluminous report from two experts on the evolution and future of the profession of lawyer. Great initiative, because this time is necessary given the metamorphosis that our society is experiencing today! These two experts have worked independently to launch avenues for reflection on the evolution of the profession of lawyer. There's no shortage of questions. The state of play with regard to this profession is challenging. There are major challenges today in terms of training, ethics, the organisation of bar associations, the organisation of law firms themselves and artificial intelligence. A daily newspaper was entitled "The Robotization of Justice". We'll have an opportunity to talk about it. Of course, I welcomed this important step, because it affects one of the pillars of our law. The benchmarks for the role of lawyer are clear: freedom and independence. The questions of course arise in relation to the development of communication and information technologies and the increasing complexity of the law. We are in fact somewhat responsible, because society is changing. We are sometimes criticized for an abundance of texts, which are too complex. Perhaps this is a reflection that we can make ourselves. However, lawyers are forced to apply the law. Citizens need to maintain confidence in the institution. They need to understand the law that is not easy. Finally, there is the viability of the profession. As all this work has been done today, you will understand, the profession of lawyer is called upon to transform. You have an important report in front of you. You said you were going to consult. Which actors will be consulted? This is my first question, Mr. Laaouej. How are you going to organize these consultations? Is it in relation to the advisory bodies or will each lawyer have an opportunity to express his views on the matter? In this great movement, what will Parliament's role be? We'll have something to exchange with you! Will universities that teach law be co-ordinated? What time line will be given to this necessary metamorphosis of the legal profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u34	Minister, after several months of reflection, the report on the future of the legal profession, commissioned by two experts, was produced. While it is necessary to take the time to analyse in depth the 655 pages of this voluminous report, which includes a number of very interesting ideas, it remains that the fears expressed last November by some lawyers, who denounced the consumerist vision at the heart of this reflection, are unfortunately not unfounded. After the announcement of your International Business Court, this does not fail to worry. In particular, the report states that the lawyer could combine his or her profession with others, such as that of a lobbyist or real estate trustee. While it is certainly not forbidden to reflect on the evolution of the profession of lawyer and on the necessary adaptation to the evolution of society, these proposals raise at least the question of the independence of the lawyer, his ethics and other ethical considerations. You are aware that access to justice has become a real problem for both the middle class and the most disadvantaged. The legal aid measures adopted by your government last year are not alien to it. Thus, one of the challenges of the discussion is to ensure better access to justice for all, as the middle class no longer has access to justice. But it cannot be a question of deregulating a profession, nor of giving up independence for the benefit of the economy. Minister, what follow-up will you give to this report? What is the planned schedule? How will the various consultations with the sector and the world of justice be organised? How do you see the link between the report's proposals and the independence of lawyers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u35	Dear President, dear colleagues, it is not to you that I must explain the total independence of the profession of lawyer in our rule of law. You are aware that the profession of lawyer is not subject to any supervision by the Minister of Justice, unlike many other professions that are subject to it directly to a minister. No rules of conduct or disciplinary regulations are approved by the Minister of Justice. Only the public prosecutor at the Court of Cassation may, in the event of abuse of authority, institute proceedings before the Court for the annulment of a regulation of the Bar Association. The purpose of this brief introduction is to justify the fact that, within the next three months, consultation will only be carried out within the legal profession itself. I have agreed on this procedure with the presidents of the two Community Orders who have asked to consult their batons and general assemblies for three months in a way that they have freely determined, without my say. At the end of May, they will collectively transmit their comments, comments, agreements and disagreements on the proposals made by a former president of the OBF, a former director of the OBB's study service as an expert. It is from that moment that I will consult the other actors. I do not exclude informal talks with some, but I think it is important to leave them this time of freedom during which they can consult their own profession. As you pointed out, Mrs Özen, this is a very sensitive subject. The arrow was fired very high. In Dutch, it looks like it can go down by falling, as the arrow usually does. But the proposals are a challenge for all those who want a future perspective for this beautiful profession. It is in this sense that I will come back to you in June. I don't think I've done it before. As for universities, they have certainly already been contacted informally. Here, too, I propose that the profession should at the moment be free to take notice of this report itself without putting pressure on it. In fact, there is always an emergency but, in this case, we must wait three months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u36	Minister, if you will allow me to paraphrase your answer, I imagine that before falling back, the arrow will be in orbit for three months. In this way, it will be able to turn and be contemplated from all sides in order to nourish reflections. At least that's what I want. The MR Group is very much committed to this process, because it highlights the involvement of the actors on the ground, as you have pointed out - and I am delighted about it - freedom, independence, but also the need to prepare for the metamorphoses of our society. It is nevertheless more interesting to think upstream than to have to repair downstream.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u37	Minister, thinking about tomorrow's world and wondering about a profession as old as that of a lawyer is obviously essential. This must be done in the light of the particularities of the judiciary. However, as you know, justice is a disaster. Indeed, the actors of the judicial world suffer: the magistrates, the clerks, the judicial staff - who work in constant understaffing. Similarly, pro deo lawyers are overwhelmed by the introduction of the moderator ticket. They don't know how much or when they'll get paid. Quite often, they are too late. The investigating judges are particularly concerned. The public prosecutor's office, for its part, is already overloaded. Minister, the judiciary needs concrete action to address the shortcomings. The upgrading of the legal profession and judicial work is expected by the sector and all citizens. While modernization of the legal profession is an essential issue, it cannot be discussed independently of the issue of access to justice. Otherwise, this reflection, however interesting it may be, will unfortunately be doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, the question of potential or actual health risks on the health of synthetic land has come to the fore, following the Special Envoy broadcast on France 2. Serious health risks were mentioned. Rubber pellets produced from recycled tires could be carcinogenic. They are used in the manufacture of synthetic grasses, but also children's playgrounds. According to the press, the French Government has taken the decision to refer to the Agence nationale de sécurité santé santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail the possible risks associated with the use of recycled rubber pellets, particularly in the manufacture of synthetic sports grounds. As politicians, we are obviously very much asked by our citizens on this issue. So let me ask you a question. Minister, have you, with your services, already begun a reflection on the risks associated with synthetic land? Are there recent studies on this issue in our country? Has the Supreme Council of Health ever considered the issue? If so, did it make recommendations and set specific standards for these lands? If not, do you intend to bring this issue to the attention of the Higher Council of Health?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u39	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like, through this question, to convince you of your ability to influence health, sport, and the ecological transition of the economy, from synthetic terrain. It is true that the issues relating to the toxicity and carcinogenicity of these fields do not date back to the past. We have already had the opportunity to meet several times in the Committee on Health on the subject, but each time the answers were reassuring: there is no link between cancer development and synthetic fields. However, in recent times, analyses have shown that in players who have used synthetic fields containing black microbeads from worn tires for a long time – this is happening in the United States – the number of cancers is higher. In Amsterdam, Holland, a study shows that if we immerse fish with these logs, they die. Studies also show that these plastic microbeads are toxic. You'll tell me that fish are not humans, but if there were no toxicity, the fish wouldn't die. What is more worrying is that when we look at the composition of these synthetic terrains and microbeads from tires, we obviously find hydrocarbons, heavy metals, lead, chromium. All this makes an amalgam that can have a negative impact. You're the Minister of Health. You must therefore prevent the health of citizens. As such, do you intend, as in France and other countries, to carry out more detailed studies on the composition of these lands? Since there are doubts, since there is a risk that these microbeads from old tires will be made up of toxic substances, do you intend to force manufacturers to move towards alternatives? I think that here you really have an important role to play. Because these alternatives exist. They exist in some of our municipalities where coconuts, cork and encapsulated rubber are used. This would make these grounds, a new version, cheaper and accessible to all the municipalities, to all the clubs, and not only to the clubs where the rich children go!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Thoron, Mrs. Gerkens. Of course, the health of users of sports grounds and playgrounds is important to me, especially when it comes to children. As you know, the sports grounds made up of rubber granules you are talking about were first laid in the Netherlands and Flanders, in 2016 already, then in a later phase, in Brussels and Wallonia. As a result, concerns about their health effects follow the same path. Indeed, I studied this subject closely with the Flemish authorities more than a year ago. At the time, I had instructed my services to determine in the short term whether there was a danger to public health. We then examined the available studies carried out in the Netherlands, among others. This included a study of zebra fish with different conduct. Belgium has also actively contributed to a study by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). At the end of February 2017, ECHA presented its findings. Unfortunately, I only have the English text: "ECHA has assessed the risk of substances in recycled rubber that is used on artificial sports pitches. Based on the evidence, ECHA has concluded that the concern for players on these pitches, including children, and for workers who install and maintain them is very low." This is consistent with that of the Dutch Institute of Public Health and the Environment. The study concludes that the health risk associated with field sport practice is almost negligible – "praktisch verwaarloosbaar". In other words, there is no need to be alarmist today. However, in order to exclude any risk, our country actively supports the strengthening of European standards. The current European standards relate to the tyres from which the land is built. But according to the stricter standards being developed, all our land would be in order. More specifically, this will mean limiting the presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in granules. We expect a proposal from the Netherlands with ECHA's support by the end of next month, after which the Member States and the European Parliament can act. In short, know that there is no imminent danger to public health. We are still working on strengthening standards with neighbouring countries within ECHA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u41	Madam Minister, thank you for your reassuring response. That's so good. It was necessary to be able to reassure the many users of these lands. I will actively monitor progress on these standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u42	Madam Minister, you may expect that, but I am not reassured by your answer. Indeed, the studies show that these fields consist of microbeads composed of substances from worn tires. You run, you fall, you sweat, you hurt yourself. These substances cling to wounds and penetrate into the skin. We breathe them, we absorb them, we aspire them. To say that there is no risk and that we can be reassured, personally, I would not dare to say so. There may not be a clear link, but there are substances that should not be there and that are there. Minister, alternatives exist with other substances, especially natural substances such as cork or coconut shells. New versions of synthetic terrain with encapsulated rubber beads are used in some Flemish municipalities. We don't use tires anymore. Let us accelerate the ecological transition of the economy by using "new formula" land, which will promote health through the promotion of sport in Belgium! I'm counting on you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u43	Madam Minister, I would like to appeal to you because the Court of Appeal in Brussels has just condemned the Belgian State to set up a fund to help the victims of the Softenon. Softenon is this famous drug that some pregnant women have taken, like candy, to reduce nausea and vomiting during pregnancy, but which has unfortunately led to malformations and severe disabilities in children. It has subsequently been shown that it is a teratogenic medicine. Despite your arguments, which I was able to read during the judicial proceedings, it must be noted that the state has delayed taking strong decisions. I'm not targeting you. This took place in the early 1960s, while other countries, for their part, had taken radical measures. With this court decision, it is time to recognize the specific situation of the Softenon victims and to move towards a real aid and compensation fund and propose complementary measures to help them, as well as their close caregivers and all the people around them who support them. We have to get out of this case from the top and, in a way, get the Belgian State to make reparation. What must motivate us and drain our energy is to work for and with the victims to improve their daily lives and not against them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u44	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your question. This case was opened 58 years ago. I understand that, for the victims, all these procedures appear incomprehensible. I heard in the press - in this case, La Dernière Heure - that the Brussels Court of Appeal had just delivered a judgment in the dispute between the Belgian State and certain victims of the Softenon. I regret to have to inform you that I am unable to answer you in detail at the moment. Indeed, I have not yet been able to obtain a copy of the judgment in question. Even the Council of State has not yet received one. We were told that it would be today that the latter would obtain the said copy. It will then be the turn of the government and myself to get to know about it. I am therefore really surprised that this information is being disseminated in the press, when we have not been able to know about the judgment - which it is really necessary to examine. Indeed, the question is delicate. That is why I consider it appropriate to carefully examine the content of the judgment in question before taking a decision. I also wish to receive advice from my counsel on this matter. I understand very well that you are asking me, but it is therefore premature to answer. I hope that, in the coming days, I will receive the judgment so that I can make a certain decision with regard to the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, it makes sense that you wanted to examine the content of this judgment. However, the question is whether you are going to file an application for cassation. I want to tell you that at some point, we have to return the weapons. After so many years of delay in taking a strong decision to genuinely protect future mothers from Softenon, the state must put an end to legal proceedings, pay victims the money saved, set up a compensation fund and make concerted and positive progress with associations representing the Softenon victims. In 2010, I tabled a motion for a resolution, which I again introduced. As such, I would like to invite my colleagues to agree to work together and with the government. I have therefore resubmitted this text and I hope that it will be dealt with. I would also like to take this opportunity to plead with you, Madam Minister, that prevention measures can be maximized for a whole range of teratogenic drugs that still exist. A very recent decision - a few days ago - was taken at European level and is in line with my proposal: to place a logo on the boxes of potentially teratogenic medicines during pregnancy. I think this is a case we need to work on again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u46	Minister, the Energy Pact should have been signed more than two and a half months ago. However, you decided to postpone the signature of this document, even though it had been approved by all your regional counterparts. I'm not going to worry: we all know where you went to get your orders. Since then, we have been swimming in total blur. A week ago, when you knowingly refused to pass on the new studies to Parliament, you quoted figures in the press. These were directly contradicted and challenged, to the greatest dismay of many parliamentarians, including the majority. It makes you smile slightly, minister. I remember just a month ago, when I was already blaming you for this type of process, you thought my words were "caricatural and lacking in density". But no later than yesterday, we learned, via the Dutch-speaking press, that you had hidden from us the figures relating to the environmental impact of the release of nuclear power. I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister has committed himself to forwarding all the documents to Parliament. Minister, your management of this issue is very likely to compromise your first objective, which is to reassure your colleagues at the N-VA. However, if the N-VA is not reassured, there will be no Energy Pact, and therefore no exit from nuclear power in 2025, for lack of the capacity to replace closed power plants. If the conclusion of the Pact is postponed beyond the first half of this year, the next government resulting from the June 2019 elections will probably have no choice but to extend the power plants. Maybe that's your hidden agenda. Are you aware of your personal responsibility in this matter and the consequences of your management of it? Will you restore confidence with Parliament and with your majority? The reading of yesterday's Morgen is significant and shows the atmosphere that prevails within this majority. In the studies you have recently commissioned, what are the concrete elements to convince the most sceptical about the transition to a nuclear-free energy landscape? Are you going, Madam Minister, in accordance with the Prime Minister's requests, to pass on the whole issue and finally to ensure full transparency? The Prime Minister had committed himself to it. So you don't trust him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u47	Madam Minister, on Monday, the municipal council in Liège voted almost unanimously (I think some members of the MR did not vote in favour and abstained, our colleague can confirm) a motion for the immediate closure of Tihange 2 and Doel 3. A nuclear accident would kill a million people in the region of Liège. That is one of the reasons for this motion. On the other hand, a party of this majority, the N-VA, with the FEB, says: "No, we must continue to extend the power stations". Minister, what we would like to know is the actual position of the MR. (...): There is none!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u48	Apart from the Prime Minister's "yes but no", what is your position? Either you dare to sweep away the false pretexts of the N-VA on CO2 and cost, or you agree with the thesis of the N-VA without daring to say it, following a policy of fait accompli. We have the impression that your dungeons, particularly in part of the Albrecht report, may be a form of self-sabotage that would aim to give grain to the N-VA. However, on the issue of CO2 emissions, we must denounce the hypocrisy of this N-VA which does not care, which continues to remove three billion from the SNCB, which encourages company cars as much as the bulk of this government and which suddenly finds that there is a CO2 problem. The real debate, Minister, must be about how to really boost renewable energy today. Why do the scenarios that you have envisaged underestimate the potential growth of renewables, knowing that extending nuclear power, all specialists agree, is blocking the renewables that have been expected since 2003? There is also hypocrisy about the cost of N-VA, which is not afraid to support Turtektaks, which is not afraid to support 21% VAT on electricity, but which suddenly says: "There is going to be a problem for energy consumers!" What an incredible hypocrisy on the part of this party! Unfortunately, we wonder what your position is. Why is nuclear costs only seen in a reduced and limited manner? Why are we never considering the cost of waste management, the cost of safety risks? In any case, we know who would benefit from the extension of nuclear power, since a report by the Federal Bureau of the Plan shows that Electrabel would thus achieve a gain of 850 million euros per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u49	Mr. Van Hees, you've already spoken for two minutes and 55 seconds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u50	Mr President, can I ask my question anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u51	Yes, but the rules state "two minutes of intervention".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u52	Mr President, the same Rules of Procedure say that I must ask my questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u53	That is enough, Mr Van Hees, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u54	But let me ask my questions, Mr. President! If you hadn't interrupted me, I'd have already finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u55	That's the rule of the game, Mr. Van Hees. The trend of your intervention is quite clear, and the minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u56	Mr President, I insist, let me ask my questions! (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u57	Mr Calvo, it is not your business. It's between me and Mr. Van Hees. Mr Van Hees, I will transfer the statistics to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u58	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u59	Mr Van Hees, I would ask you to sit down now. I ask you to sit down, Mr. Van Hees! I call you to order the first time. I'll call you back to order for the first time!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u60	I'm asking my questions. Let me ask my questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u61	Mr Van Hees, you can use your right of reply. I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u62	I also have the right to ask my questions! Why can't we ask questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u63	Because you've spoken too long, Mr Van Hees. It is very simple: no one has spoken as long as you have. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u64	It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u66	Then you asked for it yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u67	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u68	It's over, Mr. Van Hees. That's the rules. (The President cut off Mr. Van Hees)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u70	It's your own fault. You have to prepare your speech with the questions. Mr. Van Hees, I'm so sorry. I'll call you back to order a second time. It means it's completely over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u71	Monsieur de Lamotte, I read in the newspaper Le Soir of July 4, 2016, under the title "But what is the minister doing?", your interview in which you say, "For gas power plants, we are still waiting for the minister's proposals." Well, the energy vision of the four energy ministers is precisely to ensure that gas-fired power plants compensate for the release of nuclear power. You also say about offshore wind energy: "We are still waiting to know whether the government will reduce the subsidy or what the subsidy will be." We did. On storage and demand management, you have the same catastrophic words, as if we were never doing the right thing. I see, however, that everything has been done. We have guaranteed security of supply. We have completed this road map that you are looking forward to and, in the energy vision, we are doing the same. Last week, we transmitted to you the study carried out by Professor Albrecht – who is not an expert on climate. You certainly read it with great interest, comparing my firm to an "interacademic research centre used to produce studies". The studies in question look at the cost at the federal level of replacing nuclear capacity with offshore, off-shore, off-road, distribution and renewable power plants at the regional level, since they have to calculate it. This will represent, as we have calculated and as everyone can do, 15 euros excluding VAT in addition to an average bill from an average citizen of this country in electricity consumption of 3,500 kWh between 2023 and 2026. Today – we're used to it – you keep saying: "You haven't reported the CO2 figures." Well, Mr. de Lamotte, I have to tell you that Professor Albrecht did not do a CO2 study. He made, as in his book, a small projection that I will give you in two lines, which is in no way a study. So I didn't have to send you a completely imperfect and irrelevant document that was not part of his study. I have therefore asked my Directorate-General for Climate to do a real study on CO2 emissions from gas-fired power plants. There will obviously be more CO2 produced by gas-fired power plants that will replace nuclear power plants, which emit less CO2. As for the Paris agreement, there will surely be questions to ask for compensation. But gas-fired power stations are part of the ETS system and will obviously not prevent Belgium from achieving its CO2 reduction targets at European level through their installation and operation. That is all we need to hear when we say that the report is incomplete, that we are not moving forward, that we have been dragging around for two months, and so on. There will indeed be an energy pact in this country, which will be based on very well-documented elements and which will allow all members of the federal government coalition to adopt the vision that I am defending, which I have drawn up with the four energy ministers and which is now called "An energy vision for the energy transformation of our economy". Mr Van Hees, I see very well how you want to go. I would just like to remind you of this: you say that, according to the press, the continuation of the operation of nuclear power plants in our country would report as much, according to studies which have been carried out and which are visible in the said press. Do you think that shutting down the power plants will result in a loss of profits for the state budget? We agree. So you often say things that are contradictory without realizing them. We agree that, of course, a commercial company is seeking to make a profit and that if it continues to operate these facilities, it is to make money. But this money is also subject to taxation and, in the heads of nuclear operators, to a special tax which is the allocation contribution. The shutdown of nuclear power plants will therefore result in a significant decrease in revenue for the State budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u72	Mr President, what is quite extraordinary is that Mr. Van Hees could not ask his questions, but Mrs Marghem did not answer mine either. So we find ourselves a little in front of a system completely "to the mass".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u73	I'm used to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u74	Mrs Marghem, I'm used to you not answering questions. So I know your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u75	I'm used to you talking like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u76	You say everything's fine and CO2 is no problem. I refer you to the Morgen article that appeared yesterday. A crazy atmosphere doesn't seem to reign in the majority. When we read the statements made by the CD&V, the Open Vld, the N-VA about these studies, we see, Madam Minister, that you are isolated. I hope that you will not merely transmit to us a text of two lines which the President has kindly given me. Moreover, it is with arrogance that you announce that you are going to ask the management of the FPS, which is your responsibility to carry out a new CO2 study. I therefore note, as I have already said before, that from study to study, your firm is a centre for interacademic studies and is unable to answer the questions that everyone rightly raises. It's a question of whether your hidden agenda is not to deliberately waste time to make it impossible to get out of nuclear power.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u77	Mr Van Hees is asking for the floor, but I will ask him to sit back. I'll call you back to order for the second time. You don't have the floor. The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u78	It's a scandal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u79	I'll give you the statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u80	You're not everyone's president. You are the majority, the N-VA, but not the president of all the Members! It's a scandal! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u81	Mr Laaouej, no one spoke for three minutes and twenty-two seconds during this session! I've made a decision and I'm assuming it! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u82	I do not accept this debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u83	Mr. Minister, your party colleague and Walloon Minister of Airports, Jean-Luc Crücke, has sent a letter to the CEO of Belgocontrol. In that letter your party colleague and colleague writes that the Walloon Region is looking at alternatives to replace Belgocontrol. In other words, the Walloon Region is looking for a foreign partner for the services at the regional airports of Charleroi and Liège. The airports of Charleroi and Liège are doing well. Passenger numbers increase every year. That is a good thing. Since 2015, the cost of the service has been borne by the federal government. Every year, this amounts to more than EUR 8 million. Mr Minister, neither the Walloon Region nor the airlines are currently paying for the services offered by Belgocontrol at regional airports. Mr Minister, let me be clear, I think the letter is totally inappropriate. Pay nothing and then threaten to leave, to seek refuge with a foreign partner: I find that unacceptable. In January 2016, you said that this method of financing was temporary pending an agreement between the federal government and the Regions. Mr Minister, first of all, what is your response to the letter? What will you do to solve the problem? Secondly, where is the review of the agreement between the federal government and the regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u84	Mr Yüksel, I believe that Minister Crücke sent his letter as a customer of Belgocontrol. He pays his supplier a certain sum for the services provided and is currently not entirely satisfied with those services. In that respect, therefore, there is nothing wrong with the démarche. My cabinet is in contact with the regional Cabinets to consolidate the financial balance of Belgocontrol and to update the relationship between Belgocontrol and the Regions under the 1989 cooperation agreement. The aim is to find a balanced solution for all. At the same time, I want to strengthen Belgocontrol's competitive position in a freed-up European market by contractually defining through service-level agreements (SLAs) the relationship between each customer and Belgocontrol as a service provider. Finally, Belgocontrol's capital may also be opened to its regional customers. This requires transparency of Belgocontrol vis-à-vis the Regions. That phase's going on. The costs to be borne by the regions should be negotiated. Belgocontrol must also be transformed into a nv of public law. The updating of the cooperation agreement, the SLAs and the possible opening-up of capital will allow the regions to become even more involved in the operation of Belgocontrol, which will undoubtedly benefit the service sector. It is also on those basic principles that Belgocontrol's management has built its Belgocontrol 2020 strategy. It is therefore important that all the actors involved in the dossier anticipate this evolution in the air navigation sector rather than undergo it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u85	As far as I am concerned, Minister, the letter reads as a threat to Belgocontrol. Let me repeat: that is totally inappropriate. I hope you give that message to your partymate. Furthermore, I think it is important to achieve fair remuneration on the basis of figures and material, so that the regions pay a fair contribution. That's what the coalition agreement says, by the way. You have a few months left to review that cooperation agreement and to reach an agreement in which everyone's contribution is paid. The idea of involving regional airports in Belgocontrol is a good thing, but hopefully this does not mean the cancellation of debts that have been incurred in the past. Minister, it is high time. You need to shift a gear higher; the chord must now be there quickly. In this way, we can provide both the employees of Belgocontrol and the regional airports with certainty about their growth and the survival of passenger aviation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u86	Mr President, Minister, after 18 years of negotiations, the conclusion of the free trade agreement between the European Union and five Mercosur countries seems very close. Our farming community awaits the consequences of this. Indeed, what concessions will Europe make in the agricultural sphere of the agreement to demand more export opportunities? After all, we know that Brazil and Argentina are two agricultural giants. It does not appear that there is sufficient protection for European farmers. The cattle sector and the white sugar sector are particularly under pressure, while we all know that the demand for meat has fallen over the last ten years and that the sugar sector is still recovering from the abolition of quotas and is looking for alternative sustainable opportunities and other developments. Moreover, under this agreement, the profits for the European economy would be rather small because of the great distance. All agricultural organisations fear that Europe will lose out as a loser. This agreement raises questions because of the unequal quality and animal welfare standards between Europe and Mercosur countries. Trade agreements are necessary to be able to play a part in the world economy and we must embrace them, but not at any price. Flemish Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois and yourself travel around the world in search of new markets for our products and new balanced and correct agreements. However, Europe is now opening the door to an agreement in which there is considerable doubt as to whether this will have a positive effect on European agriculture. This looks like mopping with the tap open. Minister, I know that you too take this dossier to heart and that you have warned your European colleagues about a possible negative impact. How was your call received? Is the fear of the agricultural organizations justified? Can you guarantee that the high European standards will not be compromised? Are there any positive aspects to this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u87	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, thank you for your question on an important dossier. As you know, the beef market is facing difficulties. The figures show how much we depend on our exports. Belgium's self-sufficiency rate is 163 %. Another important part concerns our sugar industry, for which there could be significant consequences. At the European Agriculture Council of 19 February last, I once again advocated, as at any European Agriculture Council, that the part of the free trade agreement on agriculture should not be an adjustment variable. We have also worked to develop alliances with other countries such as France, Ireland or Austria. I can assure you that the federal government is fully ready to defend our agricultural sector in the negotiations. The Prime Minister also sent a letter to that effect to the President of the European Commission in January of this year. In addition, in early February, a Mercosur working group was set up at Belgian level, with the regional experts, to determine our line of defence. I am, of course, also in close contact with our Minister for Foreign Affairs on this issue. At the European Council on Trade on 27 February, he reiterated our concern about the segmentation of quotas and the follow-up of plant health standards. Some in the Commission would like to land before April 2018. You know that there will be elections in Brazil. However, we will ensure that there is no forced landing that would be at the expense of our farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u88	Minister, I am somewhat reassured by your answer. I hope that you will continue your opposition, in cooperation with the regions and the other European countries that are in favour of their farmers, and that you will unite to stop the agreement as it stands. I hear that European Commissioners Malström and Hogan are packing their bags to sign the agreement, so you should do the same. Travel to Strasbourg and help them unpack their bags before this agreement unpacks our agricultural sector and, in the event of enlargement, our entire European agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u89	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like briefly to report on this agreement. The Treaty was adopted by 13 votes in favour and one abstention. Mr De Coninck spoke, by myself, Mr Crusnière and Mr Hellings. Mr Vandenput also had questions about this new treaty. I would like to emphasise the importance of this agreement, which has been applied in practice since August 2016, which makes it possible to ensure that in Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg there should not be unnecessary transfers at the border, but that the police services are free to place the repatriates in an efficient and safe manner. In view of the international migration context, this Convention has been applicable since August 2016. We therefore consider it an important treaty. The Minister confirmed that, although the authorities of one of the three countries, within the performance of their duties and in accordance with the rules of the territory in which repatriation takes place, may bring people to their destination in another country without administrative or logistical concern for a transfer. This will save time and increase safety. The proposal was therefore adopted in committee, with one abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u92	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u93	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2862/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2862/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u95	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2740: Roel Deseyn, Sonja Becq, Eric Van Rompuy, Jef Van den Bergh - 1566: Catherine Fonck, Benoît Dispa.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Robert Van de Velde, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who wants to adopt a child has a long way to go. It is not just a matter of being found fit and being allowed to adopt, often one remains very uncertain about the arrival of the child until the last moment. Moreover, and that is what this bill is about, adoption weighs very heavily on the candidate adoptive parents. They must pay for the whole procedure themselves. The proposal that we are going to adopt here tonight, because I am counting on it, wants to take a family-friendly measure and give tax relief to families who want to adopt a child. This certainly fits in with our wider desire to make our society more family-friendly, or in this case more adoptive. This is how adoptive parents approach natural parents financially. As has already been said, the cost of adoption can be very high. They vary, of course, depending on whether they are domestic or foreign adoptions. Let me give you some figures. We see that domestic adoption can cost EUR 8 000 quickly, and for a foreign adoption the average cost is between EUR 10 000 and EUR 15 000. There are also outliers known, for example in the French Community, up to EUR 35 000. Apparently, more than EUR 40 000 is not even a rare exception. This proposal is therefore more than appropriate. We want to give concrete support to the candidate adoptive parents by giving them a tax reduction of 20% of the costs incurred, with a maximum of EUR 6 150. In this way, families who have doubts can take the step towards adoption. Although they receive only a partial tax reduction, one fifth of the costs, this can make a difference for those concerned. We have had a number of discussions on budgetary costs. In a maximum scenario, 1.3 million euros were discussed. However, the decreasing trend in the number of adoptions, especially from other countries, and due to the long period of time of the procedure, will certainly reduce budgetary costs. I suspect about four hundred to five hundred thousand euros. It is good that various groups in this House have been able to commit themselves to the practical implementation of this proposal. I have noticed in the comments by e-mail or telephone that many people were happy when they heard that this proposal would become law. However, there were some practical questions. That is why I am taking the opportunity to say something about this. The question is what costs the bill takes into account, because there are, of course, a lot of costs in practice. I will not go over them all, but I will zoom in on the specific cost items that can be taken into account for the deduction. In the case of a domestic adoption, that shall be expenditure relating to the suitability procedure and expenditure on costs charged by an approved adoption service. I will not mention all the costs, which makes little sense, but it is important to take note of the large sections. For an international adoption, it concerns the costs of the suitability procedure, but also the file costs in the country of origin of the adoptive child. An important section is travel expenses and accommodation costs. There was some political discussion about this. We have finally reached the consensus that the adoptive parents can include a return and return journey in the cost base in order to qualify for the tax relief. Perhaps we should look at this again in the future, because in practice we have to travel several times. This has nothing to do with the will of the candidate adoptive parents, but much to do with the measures taken in the country of origin. For example, if there is the possibility of an appeal procedure, we must wait four weeks before the procedure can be completed in the country of origin. During that period, no contact may be made with the child concerned. Of course, those parents are coming back to Belgium in the meantime, unless they can arrange it with leave days at work, and they have to travel again. When it comes to Uganda, for example, or Kazakhstan, you will understand that this entails huge costs. We have drawn a line in this today by including a outward and return journey per candidate adoptive parent. For the accommodation costs, we subscribe to the standard tables available to foreign officials. This brings us to an absolute maximum of 6 150 euros tax relief for the 2019 tax year. This absolute ceiling will only be met if a simple calculation of one-fifth of the cost is exceeded by more than EUR 30 750 in adoption costs. Of course, there are questions about foreign adoption, because it covers a long period of time. How do we calculate this? What period does this cover? In practical terms, this tax reduction will be granted in the time when the adoption procedure is terminated. The reduction shall apply to expenditure incurred during that taxable period and the five preceding taxable periods. Quite specifically, this means that in the year itself and in the five years before the end of the procedure, the costs incurred can be included in the personal income tax. I think you are all convinced that these five years are absolutely necessary, because in fact this is still quite modest. After all, there are procedures that run much longer. If the costs of the five previous years and the year in which the procedure is completed can be charged, in some cases it is already possible to benefit from a reasonable tax reduction. The question is when exactly is the adoption procedure going to end? We cannot give a definitive ruling on this this afternoon, Mr President, because there is still a royal decision to be made. By this law, we give permission to the King to define the concept of termination. However, this is quite crucial for those concerned, because there is some margin for which costs can be charged exactly, but also for defining the periods. One could, for example, look at the date of the recognition sentence or the date of recognition by the Federal Central Authority for adoption. However, I am in favour of the date of registration in the population register. Especially when it comes to the procedure of cross-border adoptions, it is not insignificant to define that deadline in this way. To outline the importance of the end-point of adoption, let me give you the following practical example. If a couple of adoptive parents terminate the procedure on 3 March 2018, they may charge the costs incurred in the year 2018, including the costs incurred after the actual termination, and those of five years before that. Suppose the adoption procedure ends on 15 December 2018, then one can do the same, but then the costs that may be incurred and paid after the date of termination can only be charged when they were realized in 2018. In the present case, therefore, there are still 15 days left. This is, of course, a major difference from a procedure which will be completed in March. When the procedure ends at the end of the year, one must be administratively alert to see which payments and costs can be charged. In fact, adoptive parents may already be able to welcome their babies, but the adoption procedure has not yet been formally completed because, for example, they are still waiting for registration in the population register. However, they will still be able to rely on the tax relief. For adoptive parents who are in such a situation because, for example, their adoptive child has been living with them since the end of last year, this is not insignificant. That is why I am calling on the government, and I am counting on you to say this to your colleagues, Minister Bellot, to move quickly towards a royal decision. I am actually optimistic about this because the Finance Minister has already committed himself not to wait too long so that people do not live in uncertainty and have no practical administrative concerns about a correct declaration. Furthermore, the proposal also provides for a division between married and legally resident persons. Of course, it is not possible to benefit from the tax relief twice as a result of the same family. How will that be practical? In the case of a common attack on married and legally resident persons, the tax relief will be distributed proportionally on the basis of the taxed income of the two spouses or the legally resident persons. Finally, I have already noted the fact that the King is authorized to impose further conditions with regard to the costs. In this context, I had already mentioned, for example, the daily ceilings for foreign officials to which the accommodation costs will be linked. All costs incurred and incurred in the course of a procedure by an approved adoption service are therefore eligible for a tax reduction. There is another important element on which there are many questions that I believe arise from a very human reflex: even adoption procedures that have been terminated prematurely, for whatever reason, are eligible for tax relief. It can then be regarded as a definitive termination, which is why the definition of termination of proceedings is very important. This will also reduce the burden on taxpayers who, in the last resort, see their adoption wish go up in smoke. It is therefore very important that the royal decree be edited very carefully. We could not just put that into the law because it is about practical arrangements on which very good agreements need to be made. This concludes the presentation of the content of the proposal before us. I would like to thank you for your support in the preparation and the vote this evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u98	Mr. Chairman, we are very pleased to have seen this bill come to fruition. It was voted unanimously in the Finance Committee. Last week, it was an improvement in the tax system for orphans. This week, it's an improvement for adoptive parents. It is known that adoption is a long, difficult and costly path. This bill does not have a large budget cost, but it improves the lives of the families concerned. The MR Group is very pleased to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u99	Mr President, this progress at the tax level will support parents wishing to adopt. We know how difficult it is and much more so when it comes to intercountry adoption. Supporting parents in terms of spending, which is often extremely high, has been attached to the CDH for some time. The CD&V remembers that just before you, we had tabled a bill on the subject, which is now attached. We are pleased to have been able to bring together the whole House to support this type of arrangement. In addition to this financial support for adopters, other measures will still have to be taken which do not, it is true, concern the tax field but many other powers at federal, regional and Community level. I hope that together, at the federal level, we will be able to move forward. I also thank Benoît Dispa who did the job for me in committee since I was absent at that time. Thank you for allowing us to move forward on this issue together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u100	Mr President, briefly, in support of this proposal, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of this bill. Adoption is a gesture of love that is not necessarily a long, quiet river. However, it is a great adventure, both for parents and for the child. To support them throughout the procedure, particularly through taxation, is obvious to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u101	Mr President, we will be voting in favour of this proposal, but I would like to repeat the reservations I raised in committee in plenary. It is a good thing that as a government we intervene in the cost of adoption, there is no discussion about that. However, I believe that we are doing this in the wrong way. We complain in all political groups that we are continuing to support barracks in our tax system. The proposed regulation is another example of this. In my view, the choice of a deduction of costs is the least appropriate means for the government to intervene in something that is legitimate. It would be much better to regulate this at Flemish level with regard to Flanders. One can then intervene immediately in the costs. Mr Deseyn argues, among other things, that adoption costs a lot of money, which may be an obstacle for some to adopt. Well, this doesn't remove that obstacle. After all, we all know how the tax system works. The deduction can be made at the next tax return and only one year later, at the time of the tax assessment, will the tax relief be obtained. That can be two years or more after spending. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we support the proposal because we believe that it is a concession in the adoption costs for those who wish to adopt and otherwise cannot. We have no choice but to support them in this. However, we should call for a better means at regional level. Candidate-parents can intervene immediately if they incur adoption costs. We'd do much better about that. Mr President, it is an intermediate step for us. A further step should be taken at regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u102	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u103	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2740/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2740/4) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u104	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u105	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2809: Gautier Calomne, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck - 2810: Brecht Vermeulen, Jean-Marc Nollet, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck - 2802: Vincent Van Peteghem, Jean-Marc Nollet, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Katja Gabriëls, Kristof Calvo, Catherine Fonck. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these three proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these three proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Calvo and Mr Van Biesen, who refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first and most important package of measures that we agreed to at meetings of the Political Renewal Working Party is here today in plenary, and I welcome that. This is specifically about extending the legal framework around the mandate list and the asset declaration. At the start of the Political Renewal Working Group in February-March 2017, my party, the N-VA, launched seven proposals on the topic of the mandate list and the asset declaration. This was done in the "transparency" cluster, which then became the first cluster of the work. This was done, among other things, on the basis of my legislative proposals, on the basis of proposals from Senator Louis Ide during the previous legislature and on the basis of oral questions from myself addressed to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. A consensus was reached on six of the seven proposals. They are fully accepted. The seventh proposal, in which we advocated the declaration of revenue from public mandates within a given fork, was even extended to the detailed declaration of all revenue from those public mandates in full transparency. I'd like to take a look at each of the modified parts. Firstly, there is the extension of the mandate declaration. Since 1 January 2005, the ordinary and special laws of 2 May 1995 and the ordinary and special implementing laws of 26 June 2004 have been in force. These laws assume that a properly functioning democracy can only work if there is sufficient transparency. The implementation of these laws should allow citizens to verify the representation of a political officer or a senior official. The laws also impose on Members of Parliament, Heads of Cabinet, Deputy Chiefs of Cabinet, Mayors, Ships, Directors in Intercommunals and certain top positions of the Government to report their mandates to the Court of Auditors annually and periodically also their assets. All this must prevent conflicts of interest. Last year, the Court of Auditors sent a letter to the Working Party on Political Renewal to the effect that there are between 7 500 and 8 000 reporting agents each year who submit either a list of mandates or a list of mandates and a statement of assets. This number is constantly increasing in the year following the municipal elections due to the innovations of the boards of directors and management committees in the intercommunals. Already in 2011, the N-VA's Louis Ide, Huub Broers and Liesbeth Homans launched a proposal in the Senate to oblige the substantive staff of the government's cabinets to submit a mandate list in addition to the heads of the cabinet and the deputy chiefs. It was unanimously approved in the Senate in March 2013 and was transferred to the Chamber, but it was not dealt with in the Chamber, the deadline had expired. I then retabled the proposal myself in 2015. The political importance of substantive staff is high. They negotiate at least as much on draft laws, royal decisions, ministerial decisions, proposals of decree, decisions of regional governments and circulars as elected politicians. I therefore think it is logical that these people should also provide transparency about their mandates and fees. In the Working Party on Political Renewal, the political parties of majority and opposition decided together to tackle the law thoroughly. The extension to the experts and the substantive staff of Cabinets was therefore an evidentiary for the members of the working group. We also got the bill from among others Publifin, Publipart and Samuscial. Given the disproportionate fees paid to these organisations, which no one was aware of, we will now also bring much more transparency to the many companies and organisations in which the public sector has a dominant role. The applicants wish that members of the board of directors, directors and advisory councils of legal persons in which the government exercises a dominant influence should now also submit a list of mandates. A double criterion is used for this. The obligation applies to those who, by a decision of the State, form part of an administrative body or who are members of an administrative body of a legal person in which the government or different authorities together have a dominant influence. For example, SNCB, the National Lottery, the Flemish Land Society and the local social housing companies, all now fall within the scope of the new law. Not only will politicians and public sector leaders have to submit a list of mandates, they will also have to give up much more data. Today, a taxable person must state only whether the job performed is remunerated or not. The present legislative amendment makes the declaration much more detailed. Both the revenue from public undertakings and organisations and the income from private companies and organisations are now subject to the obligation to declare to the Court of Auditors their public fees with the exact amount of wages and allowances on the basis of the tax information they receive from the paying organisation. They must also disclose their private income, albeit not the exact amount, but according to six categories. There will also be additional sanctions. Because the standard can only be successful if it can be enforced, the Court of Auditors will have more powers to sanction politicians who do not declare a mandate incomplete or incorrect. The current law provides that mandate lists must be submitted between 1 January and 31 March. In the event of default, the Court of Auditors shall send a registered reminder letter. This is an average of 1 500 registered letters, except in a year of municipal elections, in which the figure increases to 3 000. By 15 August at the latest, the Court of Auditors shall publish the lists. Last year the publication in the Belgian Official Journal took place on 11 August 2017. The website Cumuleo, actually a voluntary initiative that converts information published in the Belgian Official Journal into a publicly accessible website, states that 124 people have failed to submit their 2016 declaration. Those people can be prosecuted by the courthouse, theoretically anyway. Although the legislator has stipulated that the reporting agent who does not submit a mandate or asset declaration may be fined from EUR 600 to EUR 6 000 for any negligence, a reply from Minister None to an oral question from myself shows that this is very rare. The Minister of Justice replied to me on the subject of criminalisation that, in general terms, he was in favour of not sanctioning infringements that would not be punishable, but rather by civil or administrative means. I have been in favour of this myself for a long time. The suggestion was already mentioned by the Court of Auditors in its 2014 annual report. The Working Party on Political Renewal agreed to provide for administrative procedures in addition to the prosecution to enable better and more effective enforcement. We do not want people to be squeezed like a lemon at all, but we want to ensure that the law is enforced. Of course, the right to defence applies, and appeal procedures must be observed. For example, the Court of Auditors will be able to issue a warning and issue fines. Tough politicians could then even be banned by the courts to be elected, a ban that could apply for a period of five years. We shall also modernise this. We are, of course, in favour of administrative simplification. The extension of the scope of legislation and the ratione personae is opposed to administrative simplification. The mandates will no longer have to be delivered to the Court of Auditors on paper every year, after which the employees of the Court of Auditors manually overtype the data on a PC and then publish them. The declaration will now be submitted electronically. The declaration also consecrates the only-once principle. Only once will it be necessary to publish its mandates to the Court of Auditors, after which it will be necessary to confirm annually whether the data are still correct. If this is not the case, it is sufficient to adapt it electronically. This should ensure that the work for both the reporting agent and the Court of Auditors is greatly reduced. In this way, despite a more extensive scope, we are still achieving efficiency gains. Another novelty, which should certainly ensure legal certainty, is the inclusion in the mandate declaration of the company number of the institution where a reporting agent exercises a mandate. After all, the use of the name of a mandating agency has not always been applied consistently. Let me give you an example. I myself am chairman of cvba De Roeselaarse Woning and I have also mentioned this in my mandate list. My Roeselaar colleague from the CD&V group is in the same company director, but she mentioned that under Roeselaarse Woningen vzw. You can check this on the website of Cumuleo. It is, of course, the same legal entity in which my colleague and I are both directors, but the name has been stated differently, no doubt without wrong intentions, but this may create confusion. This is why the Working Party on Political Renewal decided to add the company number in the future. We also seek greater transparency with regard to citizens. We will no longer have all that is known published in the Belgian Official Journal and then wait until a voluntary initiative such as Cumuleo continues. No, under the motto "force strange eyes," we will now also ask the Court of Auditors to place the names of the reporting agents and their mandate lists with the corresponding fees clearly visible on the website. This will also show who has not submitted their lists and declarations or who has not submitted them. In addition, a link is placed on the website of the Chamber to this page on the website of the Court of Auditors, so that there is more awareness and transparency through the website of the Chamber. This response also ensures that the statutory notice is supplemented in the Belgian Official Journal. Are we doing extravagant business? There is no doubt that many proposals were put forward in the Working Party on Political Renewal which, in my opinion, were often revolutionary, overwhelmed, populist or exhibitionist. But what is before us today for approval is particularly evolutionary, rational, reasonable and responsible, and it must also increase the legitimacy of our reforms. In June 2011, Professor Marleen Brans of the Public Management Institute of the Catholic University of Leuven published the report Transparency of rewards for high public office, a comparative study on transparency in the fees of legislative and executive politicians, top officials and judges in thirteen European countries. By the way, the professor sent relevant information on this subject to each group in May 2017. I will quote a number of passages and figures to show the importance of what is now before us. Firstly, Belgium was one of the countries where finding the information required was the most difficult. Just like Romania, we scored only 3 here at a maximum of 7, while Ireland and Sweden achieved the maximum score of 7. Secondly, Belgium was also at the lowest scores on the degree of active transparency. Active transparency means making information on fees public and accessible to all. Thirdly, Belgium also has few automatic mechanisms that encourage transparency. Professor Brans' study showed that a number of countries have been very leading in transparency for several years. These are Sweden, the Netherlands and Estonia, closely followed by Hungary and Norway. I have said that we are doing rational, responsible business here. I'm comparing it to what's happening in the countries around us. They do at least similar cases. In the Netherlands, information on the so-called public registers has long been available on the website of the House of Representatives. It concerns a travel register, a gift register and a register of secondary functions, including any remuneration. The information from these three registers can also be found on the pages of the members of the House of Representatives per Member. My contacts with Dutch MEPs through the IPU and the Benelux Parliament show that no one is opposed to this transparency and that this is even taken for granted. The Dutch municipal law also provides that mayors, aldermen and members of the council must disclose their secondary functions. There is even a central register for professional data and secondary functions of judges. However, it is unclear whether there is a requirement to publish fees for representatives of the public sector in semi-public companies or real public companies and for top officials. That's where we're different. In the French Republic, too, Members of Parliament have to draw up and submit a declaration d'intérêts et d'activités to the Assemblée nationale. It was our esteemed colleague André Frédéric who reminded me of this during the work of the Working Party on Political Renewal. Most of the categories in that statement are mainly related to deontology and conflicts of interest. However, point 10 also calls for an overview of the professional activities, whether for remuneration or not, which the Member of Parliament intends to continue to pursue in France during the duration of his term of office. In France, it is even forbidden for a Member of Parliament to start a new profession during the current term of office. Nine out of ten Members of Parliament would exercise a mandate without having any other professional activity, with the exception of public mandates. I am referring, of course, to mayors, ships, presidents of a social housing organisation and so on. An article in Le Monde dated 22 April 2013 showed that 240 of the 567 French MPs would be directors of a company. These were mainly public real estate companies, such as social housing companies, local agricultural cooperatives and public enterprises. In the United Kingdom, since the House of Commons resolution of 27 May 1974, the Members of Parliament have been asked to indicate the sources of income they had in addition to their parliamentary remuneration. Until 1995, however, they were not required to give up any amounts. On the website of the House of Commons, a page is reserved for the Register of Financial Interests. This brings information about any monetary interest or material benefit a Member of Parliament can obtain and can reasonably be expected to influence his actions, speeches or voting behaviour. This web page shows very detailed information for the 21 parliamentary sessions since 1997. After being elected, a Member of Parliament must make a first declaration within the month and then notify any change within 28 days. The Register of the House of Commons defines the following 10 categories of financial interest for which a Member of Parliament should be transparent. Firstly, betting and wages, on any individual payment of more than £100, and on any payment of a single source that exceeds £300 a year. Secondly, loans, grants and other aid from £1,500 for individual payments or from £500 for multiple payments. Thirdly, gifts, benefits and hospitality coming from the United Kingdom. Fourthly, visits outside the United Kingdom. Fifth, gifts, benefits and hospitality coming from outside the United Kingdom, starting at £300. Sixthly, real estate as soon as it amounts to £100 000 and real estate income as soon as it exceeds £10 000. Seventhly, shares, as soon as one owns 15% of the capital of a company, or has at least £70 000 in shares. Eight, varia. Ninth, family members employed who were paid at least £700 a year through parliamentary expenses. Tenth and finally, family members who may be employed in lobbying. We still have an surrounding country that is big enough to talk about it, Germany. In Germany, the website of the Bundestag also provides information on the ancillary activities and revenues in addition to the parliamentary mandate for each member. That is an implementation of the Abgeordnetengesetz. Since 1972 specific rules of conduct have been developed for Bundestag members. There are transparency rules and reporting obligations for gifts, for gifts and for activities in addition to the parliamentary mandate. The revenue from the activities in addition to the mandate should be indicated as soon as they amount to at least EUR 1 000 per month or EUR 10 000 per year, albeit by indicating which of the seven discs contains the gross annual income. Information is found on the website of the Bundestag at the biographies of the Bundestag members. In the European Parliament too, we have referred to this on several occasions during the work of the Working Party on Political Renewal, pursuant to Article 4 (2) of the code of ethics, there is an obligation to show professional activities and income from them. The income must be reported in five ranges: unpaid, less than EUR 1 000 per month, between EUR 1 000 and EUR 5 000 per month, between EUR 5 000 and EUR 10 000 per month, more than EUR 10 000 per month. The statement of financial interests in the European Parliament shall also include detailed information on the professional activities carried out by a Member of the European Parliament during the three years prior to his entry into office in Parliament, as well as on his participation in committees and boards during the same period in an undertaking, an NGO, an association or any other organisation participating in the movement of law. It also includes information on remuneration paid by the European Parliament for the exercise of a mandate in another parliament, any fixed paid activity which it carries out in addition to its term of office as an employed or self-employed person, participation on the boards of directors and committees and any external activities for remuneration including publications, readings and advice where the total remuneration exceeds EUR 50 000 per calendar year. The measures that will be implemented with the present legislative proposals, the two legislative proposals and the proposal for a special law are therefore in the direction of the neighbouring countries and the European Parliament. I have explained a great deal about the other parliaments, but this is really to show that on a number of points we are still going further or less far than in other countries. Above all, it is intended to be more transparent than in the past. With the innovations that these legislative proposals bring, Belgium continues in active transparency. We bring more information than before. We ourselves ensure that the information is more easily visible to others. We make the persons concerned more controllable by their superiors, subordinates and colleagues. We are responding to the organisations that are delegated to public managers on their boards of directors by allowing them to bring information themselves. And we are putting a punitive stick behind the door, so that transparency does not become an empty concept. My group and I are already very satisfied with the result. I would like to thank all the colleagues who, in the then Political Renewal Working Group, and all the members of the Constitution Review Committee, for the unanimous adoption of the relevant legislative proposals at the beginning of February 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u108	Mr President, I have good news and bad news. The bad news is, I'm not gonna be as bright as Mr. Vermeulen. The good news is, I'm gonna be shorter. I'm not going back to the history of the country's transparency. I'm just going to focus – if you don't mind – on what we've been busy with for a few months. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Vermeulen. Listen carefully, because it's not common for me to thank a colleague from the N-VA. Everything happens. Enjoy this moment! It is important to note that during these nearly six months of work it was not always simple. I believe that the chairman of the committee, Mr Vermeulen, ignored his personal commitments to work towards a form of consensus on some of our concerns. I therefore wanted to thank him, Mr President, for the work he has done. I would also like to thank all colleagues. I also welcome, because this may be the first time that we have seen this in such an important way, the work done by the services. It was necessary to translate our ideas into texts, most of which were written by the services of the House. I thank them. Mr President, it took eight months, however, between the formulation of our 66 recommendations and the putting on the agenda today of the first texts voted in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution. I insisted, no later than yesterday, that of those 66 recommendations, as many as 17 are within the jurisdiction of the Governance Committee and the House Bureau. Therefore, the President agreed yesterday, we are going to work on them quickly because I do not imagine that the results we have achieved will not be achieved before the end of the legislature! It is essential to strengthen measures to improve the transparency of political life, and that is the meaning of the proposals. We therefore fully assume, ladies and gentlemen, our leading role in concertation also with the federated entities. At the level of our assembly, are we completely satisfied in my political group? Not really, since we would have liked to go further in a number of mechanisms, particularly in the area of lobbying. We would have liked to extend this control of lobbies to ministerial offices or go further on the code of ethics. Mr Vermeulen, Mr President, I would like to point out that this code of ethics has been on the table of the Constitutional Review Committee for several months now. I don't know why this code of ethics is not being approved, and I would like to go back to it. At the beginning of the work, it was difficult for some members of the majority to be open. I don't know what happened, but over time, I think that our contacts, our constructive positioning, could have made it possible at some point that synthesises could be made. The wisdom generated by the debate made it possible to move the lines. Because it is true that at the beginning, when we were talking for example about the control of the financial penalty for the absence in committee, we were saying: "There is no need for this, it is of no use." And other subjects were frightening, such as the declaration of private warrants. Today, in the texts, we still find this obligation to declare our private mandates, or the income of a professional activity. So there is progress. I am thinking in particular of the 150% all-in with regard to special functions, of linking parliamentary salaries to committee work, the creation of the register and the code of lobbies, the reduction of the salary of the Speaker of the House, applied by the Bureau on the proposal of the governance committee several weeks ago, to the regulatory, ethical and technical measures to open our institution to as many people as possible in order to improve our image. The reform that is before us is of primary importance in this context and marks a real rupture that is supposed to allow for effective and accessible transparency. In fact, I had submitted texts to that effect several months ago, aimed at the creation of a public Cumuleo. The aim is to enable all citizens to learn about public and private mandates, as well as the professional activities of public officials, in the European model. The mandate statement should allow everyone to examine in full transparency the scope of private and public mandates and the professional activities carried out by the persons concerned legally. This is to facilitate the identification of possible confusion of interests. It was already more or less possible through the private sector. It is important to take an act to ensure that such verification and publication are carried out by a public body, in this case the Court of Auditors. The latter is given an additional mandate. Its first president stressed the difficulty of assuming these new tasks. It was agreed, Mr President, that we would work with the Court of Auditors to measure the additional financial burden and fill it at Parliament level. This will be done through the Accounting Commission. This dialogue must now be implemented. It must not be said in six months' time that a text for transparency has been adopted without giving the means to achieve it because the Court of Auditors cannot accept it. I would also like, as in the case of the National Assembly, to amend, as soon as this mechanism is in operation, the House's website to link it directly to the Court of Auditors' publications, so that anyone who visits our website can access a person's statement directly by clicking on his name. Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, ladies and gentlemen, we can look forward to implementing the remaining 60 recommendations. We are about a year from the end of the legislature. We have to get to work. We'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more than a year ago the compensation scandal broke out in the intercommunal Publifin. Unfortunately, this issue will have been followed by the revelation of too many governance-related polemics. These repeated cases have surprised, outraged and even saddened some of our fellow citizens. In particular, we all remember the sad saga of Samusocial, in the Brussels Region, that of Siamu and, more recently, that of Gial, which have nourished fierce anger and legitimate reprobation on the part of all the citizens of our country. We understand them. Indeed, which of us has not been revolted or outraged by such practices? While the latter have hit hard on the confidence given to our democratic system, they have also undermined, tarnished and undermined the image that political action now brings to the eyes of a number of our fellow citizens. Unfortunately, amalgams and generalizations have become commonplace for the vast majority of elected officials, who, however, have nothing to blame for. On the ground, we measure and feel, all of us here, the weariness that often appears on the face of some who would like to believe that things are going to change, without believing it completely. We have all done so. Our neighbours, our friends, our acquaintances, the citizens whom we meet day after day are tired of seeing the same debates constantly returning to the front page, a thousand miles from the heart of their concerns. How to convince, how to reassure those who, alas, are experiencing difficult or even dramatic situations in our country, when at the same time we learn that consultants' contracts are paid for years at dizzying daily thresholds and that even fire stations suffer from bad governance. Faced with this situation, a profound reform of governance, a political renewal have become imperative in order to regain the confidence of the entire population. The message is clear. It was heard. Therefore, we have all been working on the task here. In the working group on "political renewal", everyone presented their vision according to their sensitivity and reflections, often animated and, in many cases, unifying, were issued. After several months of work, we found ourselves on the essentials: a substantial report, with more than 60 concrete recommendations, which often go beyond the distinctions of majority/opposition – left/right, in short, which transcend partisan divisions. As we know, great principles irrigate democracy, make it live, make it vigorous and, failing that, cause it to perish with little fire and delusion, finally, the link that must exist between the citizens on the one hand, and their representatives on the other. Transparency and the need for clarity are, of course, the first of these principles. It is precisely the need to strengthen this dimension that underpins the three proposals that are now before our vote. An improvement in the transparency of public mandates was necessary, even if necessary, for a long time. I can only recall the two bills that were tabled by my group in March last year in this House, which were intended to extend the principle of publicity to all public mandates and to all related remuneration and allowances. This requirement of public transparency is not the sole responsibility of the federal government. It is important to develop these principles of good governance at all levels and levels of power. The communes, especially in view of their inherent close ties with the citizen, certainly also have a responsibility in this collective approach and, like many other communes in the country, the communal council of Ixelles, for example, unanimously adopted in March 2017 the political formations that make up it a motion aimed at developing but also at concretizing a public cadastre of the communal representatives within all the public structures, parastatals but also their structures derived from them. While some mandates are declared and therefore made public, it must be recognised that many of them are still exempt from the obligation to file a list of mandates with the Court of Auditors. The purpose of this proposal is therefore to extend the number of persons subject to this obligation. For example, members of boards of directors and directors or of advisory boards of public corporations will now be forced to do so. The objective is clearly to avoid conflicts of interest, but also instances of questionable and unreasonable remuneration in relation to the quantity and quality of work performed. It is about public money, so it is about citizens' money. In this case, the degree of transparency must be maximum. Similarly, this obligation is extended to members of so-called "bottom-up" and "non-logistic" ministerial cabinets, who will not, however, have to declare their assets - not only in the interests of balance, but also of respect for privacy. I would also like to mention another aspect of accountability: the obligation to inform the amounts of remuneration for each of its public mandates. In fact, it is recognised that, at present, while information on remuneration generally exists, it is still widely scattered. As has been pointed out, we must welcome another step forward. Private remuneration received as a natural person subject to the law on the declaration of mandate will also be made public by means of a range system similar to that already in force for Members of the European Parliament. For its part, the Court of Auditors will be called upon to play a central role in terms of transparency of mandates. Tomorrow, control will be strengthened, modernized and facilitated through an electronic filing procedure. This will facilitate easier processing of information by the Court of Auditors, but will also ensure transparency and control by citizens through the widespread publication of this information. It must be acknowledged that, if public, they are not necessarily easily accessible and readable by the general public. Thus, like what has been developed for many years by citizens' initiatives, the public institution of the Court of Auditors will publish them on its own website. This will promote the full visibility, readability and transparency of all information, as well as the clear and accurate publicity of the treatment of agents and, consequently, of their control. This is a real revolution when we think of the current publications on the website of the Belgian Monitor using a simple PDF document. Finally, we wanted to strengthen the corset of controls, avoid abuses and strengthen the tools available to the Court of Auditors, with the introduction of an administrative sanction procedure. However, we wanted to preserve a right to error with the introduction of a warning. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, these are important proposals which will significantly increase transparency, both in terms of public mandates and their remuneration, while ensuring easy access to information for all citizens of our country. As far as public money is concerned, I have said, therefore, from the contribution of all citizens, we must be fully transparent. We owe it to the whole population. Colleagues, the provisions proposed today are essential to improve and modernise governance, to strengthen democracy and to preserve or regain trust and ties with the citizen. Undoubtedly, this election year and the one that will follow will certainly be an opportunity to try to re-establish the distended links on a new basis, to explain and to do a pedagogy of citizens on all these concrete and positive measures for our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three legislative proposals on our political renewal are on the table today. They are the first legislative step following the 66 conclusions we have drawn in our working party on Political Renewal. In doing so, we are taking a rist of measures to make the Chamber more resilient and more transparent, which was necessary in the wake of all the scandals in the political world. We think of Publifin, Samusocial, Publipart and also Telenet is part of this. The confidence in politics has therefore been severely affected. It is also important for our group that we try to restore confidence. The first legislative proposals will once again increase transparency. We will find out who takes on what responsibilities. We will also find out what compensation that will be paid. These are the most important extensions we are making to the legislation on the declaration of mandates. After all, this is not just about politicians in parliaments, parliaments and local authorities. Also for the parapoliticians, the government leaders of institutions in which the government is in charge, and the substantive cabinet staff there will be a duty to report their mandates. Furthermore, we are given transparency about fees up to the euro for all public functions and, of course, for private fees. For this we will use the forks that are also used in the European Parliament. In addition to these two major enlargements, we are also making a number of additions. Firstly, with the mandate declaration we are finally entering the 21st century. After all, the submission of paper forms with mandate lists has been completed. We will be able to do so electronically from now on. Mr Nathalie Muylle has been an advocate of this for a long time. It has also submitted several legislative proposals on this subject in the past. It's important that it gets there now. It ensures that citizens no longer have to search out the Belgian Official Journal or appeal to people who do so voluntarily, such as the website Cumuleo. Everything will now be available on the website of the Court of Auditors. It is also a good thing that we are finally laying down the administrative sanctions for those who do not comply with the law. In the past, there were no sanctions, which meant that some did not give their mandates. As of today, the Court of Auditors will have the opportunity to impose administrative sanctions. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear friends, because the texts bring greater transparency and restore confidence, our group will support them. We would also like to thank the chairman of the working group, Mr Brecht Vermeulen, and all the other colleagues in the working group for the work they have done. However, the work is not finished! If we see what is happening today, what revelations there are in the city of Brussels, I can only make a warm appeal to the chairman of our working group to continue, to finalise the 50 remaining legislative proposals with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the Bureau's decisions as soon as possible and preferably in the same constructive atmosphere this spring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u111	I will be a little more businesslike and less exhibitionist than Mr Vermeulen, who, incidentally, as chairman of the committee, has done his job well. I will also call less for the measures to be revolutionary. For the record, I am satisfied with the 66 proposals. There are still some comments to make, but all Members have tried to cooperate positively and to formulate proposals. Three have now been worked out and are now being discussed. We have agreed that everyone will sign at least one of the proposals, but not all of them, even if it is a collective work. It is indeed a collective work. This is necessary if we are to have a correct political culture. This means that there is trust between the elected and the voters. Frankly, I regret that we have to work out arrangements in this area. In the end, it is about integrity and integrity, as I am told, one does not have or does not have one. If rules, standards and laws are to be imposed, then something is fundamentally wrong. In addition to the legal and legal initiatives on mandates and capabilities, which should provide transparency by publishing their list on the websites of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors, sanctions are apparently also needed. We are also particularly pleased that the private fees should also be made public. This transparency is important so that there is no breeding ground for scandals, semi-scandals and sometimes even sham scandals. We have no problem with politicians being well paid for sometimes very important mandates. However, we are asking the party to examine what efforts are being made and whether they are proportionate to the compensation. We believe that this is important because the mandates are paid with taxpayers' money and we must be able to justify it. In short, we agree with the content, just as we agree with the timing. My colleague from the PS has already made it clear that the Court of Auditors must be able to prepare itself in order to organise things properly. It doesn't just take time, it also needs resources. His representative specifically requested this during the hearing. We must therefore certainly take Mr André Frédéric's suggestion that the Court of Auditors should be given sufficient resources. In our view, many more measures could have been taken, including in relation to lobbying and the declaration of mandates by cabinet staff. But there's a compromise. The sp.a will therefore approve the three legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be a little shorter than Mr Vermeulen, a little less enthusiastic and a little more businesslike, but a little more enthusiastic than Mr De Coninck, because I am happy with what is going on here. I have just read a headline about our working party on Political Renewal: 'The mountain has given birth to a mouse'. I disagree. I have always been nuanced about the results of the working group. For us, there were certainly a number of extra things. Some conclusions could be a lot sharper, but substantial steps have also been taken. This is the first product of the working group and perhaps the most substantial and relevant. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not underestimate what is going on here. It is not revolutionary, but it is a major breakthrough in terms of transparency, mandates and fees. Colleagues said integrity is important. That's right. However, it cannot be fully enshrined in laws, decrees and decisions, but at least as important as personal integrity is the aspect of transparency, which makes matters subject to discussion. Things that may still be legally possible will then become the subject of debate, so that they may eventually disappear from our political culture and our political landscape. What is here is important and relevant. It is a major step forward because, as my fellow Members have already said, it means an increase in the number of people and posts to be transparent about their mandates. That's important. Not only politicians in the public forum have an impact and make important decisions, there are other important political actors who have an impact, which decide matters and which therefore need to be subject to a number of provisions. The broadening of the scope is therefore important. That is a first point. I come to a second point. Some colleagues have proposed it as a digital revolution. It seems to me more like we are doing what we should have done yesterday, in particular the digital provision of mandates and fees. It is strange that until today a voluntary initiative should do so for us. One has to scroll in the gigantic pdf of the Belgian Official Journal to discover more about that. The provision of this information is therefore very important. The Court of Auditors, and indirectly Parliament, is the best place for this. This is a second major breakthrough. Thirdly and most substantial, becoming and being transparent about private mandates and fees. Our group has put a lot of effort into this. Everyone seems excited today. Without wanting to cast a stone, I must say that this enthusiasm was not always there. It took me a long time to get this off the bus. In fact, it is exactly a year since our group submitted this list of proposals to the working party. Today we are taking that step. We are inspired by the European system. This seems important to me. A number of scandals have been mentioned by name. Know, ladies and gentlemen, that with what is now going on, these scandals can no longer, in principle, occur. With this system, we would have known what happened in Samusocial and what our President of the Chamber was up to after his hours and haunted. I believe that this is an important breakthrough. It is also a response to the cause for our work. Of course, this is not the end of the job. I am looking at our chairman, who is by far the most sympathetic N-VA. It's dangerous for you to hear me say this. I apologize for that. I cannot be too clear about the fact that we agree well. I mean it, though. All madness on a stick, you have tried to do this correctly. It wasn't an obvious assignment. I would like to encourage you to help speed up the rest of the work. After all, there are still a lot of decisions to be made. I do not think we should delay with that. One more word about the work. There has been a great deal of criticism and scepticism about the fact that the Working Party on Political Renewal has met with open doors. This was dismissed by many colleagues as a total absurdity. I see colleague Van Rompuy nodding. I know he was one of the critics. Mr Van Rompuy, if the Working Party on Political Renewal had met with closed doors, I am convinced that the European system had never been established. It is only by the will of a number of political groups and by the external pressure that this has finally been achieved. It is one of the last acts added to the menu of decisions. I just wanted to say this about the work. I also believe that we should be able to conclude the work. Even after the adoption of all the recommendations, the work is not complete. In my view, much remains to be done to modernise our political system and to involve citizens more. I'm not gonna sit down or sit down and say that I think this is a pretty important day. I would, of course, like to thank those colleagues who have contributed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u113	Mr President, it was my colleague Francis Delperée who took part in the committee, and I thank him for that. Mr President, I would like to say in a few words that things have still waned at the level of the working group on political renewal. It took a little massage, a little rounding the corners. It took a little pressure from time to time. The result was a series of decisions that were then to be put into music and transformed into bills. I won't go back to the content. Both have already spoken. The aim is not to repeat the debate that took place earlier. However, three bills are being considered today, which I welcome. But in substance, these bills are only a few small elements, if one wants to have a coherent set, but also finalized well before the end of this legislature. So we need to speed up the tempo a little bit. I would like to see further progress on the remaining texts, so that they can be discussed in plenary in a timely manner. It would be a shame if, at the time of the election campaigns, the potential for strength on one side or the other, some texts would end up in the trap for bad reasons. I really wish we could make progress on this. Finally, I would like to conclude my speech by saying that, if we can draw up all the laws of the world, it is, at some point, in politics as elsewhere, personal behaviour. It is only if the latter is irreproachable that politics will be able to regain the confidence of citizens and restore its credibility to political mandates. This is a personal message that can be addressed to everyone, including me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u114	Mr President, I will be very brief because my colleague Calvo has spoken of gold and I am not going to go back to what he has said. I would like to speak on a point which, in my view, is the central element in terms of progress which can be found in this text. Public salaries could be known, even if it was very difficult to get them. This was not the case for private remuneration. The real advance of this text today is to make the additional remuneration they have from private sources transparent to elected officials, to those who have a public mandate. That is the advantage of the European system for which we have argued at length in committee. As the colleague, André Frédéric, recalled, there was opposition to this suggestion. But, at some point, things have changed positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u115	The light!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u116	Light, the Holy Spirit, etc. I'm not going in that direction. I simply note that there has been a development, that I can only stress it positively, and I thank all the colleagues who have been able to take this step. If we support and vote on this text today, it is because there is this progress. An agreement is an agreement. It's gotta be a compromise. We had made other proposals to go further in this area. I will only vote for the amendments which are purely technical for the reason that an agreement is an agreement, even if we wish to go further on a series of dimensions. However, I have tabled an amendment. I am looking at the President for that. This amendment is consistent with the committee's report and allows for two months to be gained from this element of transparency, so that it is not two years after the publication of the T-year income minus two months. Our proposal is to take advantage of the fact that all the tax slips are due on 30 June and, at that time, to set the filing date, so as to earn a total of two months. I would like this amendment to be seen as technical and faithful to the report which says "as soon as possible". We will not support the political amendments. That is why I am asking for this technical look at our amendment. Finally, I thank the services for their work, a little different from that of the other committees. Isn't that right, Mr. Clerk? It was a real work of input, help and expertise, including the documentation service that we regularly requested. Mr Deltour and his colleague were also very active and helped us find the right compromises at the right times. The president helped us with the method, including technical discussions in his office. And I would be remiss if I did not point out the immense contribution made by Mr Frédéric's experience in this kind of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u117	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group obviously joins the drafters of the legislation in stressing the importance of these first steps, in accordance with the 66 recommendations approved by the Political Renewal Group. It is true that we have sometimes expressed differences within this group on certain aspects, either technical or more political. It is certainly not on these proposals that we will have the most differences. That's the opposite! We may discuss this when we have other bills to consider in the coming weeks. Undoubtedly, we were at the outset of our work very much in favour of strengthening the powers of the Court of Auditors to demand greater transparency in the declarations of mandates, assets and now income. As Mr Nollet has said, this is undoubtedly the major advance of this bill. These are practices that are already in place in other countries or in the European Parliament. What has been implemented in the European Parliament has become a reality for all because it is difficult for certain groups to fight here what they have accepted in the European Parliament. It was a useful and effective precedent to convince some more recalcitrant representatives. The Court of Auditors now has significant powers. We will discuss this again at the time of implementation, but I have some questions about how the Court of Auditors can exercise these new powers. It itself made it very clear in its opinion that it would need to be strengthened in terms of personnel and logistical resources. It will be very quickly that our assembly – since we are the ones voting for the Court of Auditors – will have to specify the increase in resources. I hope that the special committee of our House, which is responsible, in particular, for examining the accounts and budgets by way of allocation, will be able to make proposals very quickly to enable the Court to assume its new tasks. I'm making a second reservation. In fact, sooner or later, we will have to complete the legal system. While the Court of Auditors itself was reluctant to impose administrative sanctions in the event of failure to comply with the new obligations imposed on the various agents covered by the draft legislation, the idea that imposing administrative sanctions fell within the competence of the Court of Auditors was maintained. It is known that there could be controversy over this aspect a fortiori because the law does not determine the "tariff" of administrative sanctions except that in case of recidivism, the amount of administrative sanction is tripled. But the amounts are not specified in the law. I fear there will be a legal debate here. I would point out that, under French law, financial penalties are very burdensome in administrative terms, since in their system of declaration of assets and income, penalties can amount to up to €45,000 in fines, with a three-year prison sentence, with possible deprivation of civil and political rights. This will be a debate that we will hold when we consider other bills. It seems to me that the most effective sanction is the deprivation of civil and political rights for all agents who, certainly after recidivism, fail to comply with their obligations of transparency in their declaration of mandates or income and wealth. I hope that our legislation will also see a development there. To this end, if necessary, I would like to present texts because I do not wish to give the impression once again that policies are giving themselves the means to escape the sanctions imposed by failure to comply with their obligations, which is more devastating in the eyes of public opinion when it is noted that, even those who have failed heavily to fulfil their obligations, too often remain in the performance of their duties with impunity. It is impunity that is, indisputably, the most revolting for the citizen. I'll finish with one word. Of course, we are obliged to strengthen the legislative arsenal in the light of the events and scandals we have experienced, but I have always considered ethics to be a personal requirement, some of which are aware of the limits they have to put spontaneously to their power. I will always remember this wonderful formula taught to me by my professor of administrative law, the eminent Professor Flamme, who said to us: "Powers are duties". If all the agents sometimes remembered this short maxim so relevant and if everyone could be aware of what their duties are in the performance of their duties, we would probably not now have to impose by law new obligations on the agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u118	Mr Van Hees, you are asking for the floor, but normally, and according to the Rules of Procedure, I cannot give it to you. However, I propose to close the incident by telling you that there is a real need for better compliance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll send you, as well as all the group leaders, the statistics. The representatives of the PTB are really the worst students in the class. Either, but the incident is closed. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. I am not going to react to your comments, but we will send you a letter that will put things right and point out the differences in treatment that we find quite unacceptable. But I am not going to argue at this time and will only intervene on the proposals before us. Finally! It would have taken the insistence of the opposition, and above all pressure from the angry population, rightly, on the privileges of the political world, to arrive at this proposal, which provides for the publication of the amounts of public and private remuneration of the agents. I remember that in the working group on the Political Renewal, there were parties, the N-VA, the Liberals, who refused this transparency on private remuneration, seeing all kinds of vices like voyeurism and I don't know what else. But finally, we see that they agree to sign this proposal. I assume that at some point they realized that their position was indefensible to the population and their own voters. While this proposal is certainly in the right direction, it is too unambitious. I will make three criticisms of this proposal. First, why make a difference between public and private mandates? For the former, it is the exact amount that must be mentioned, whereas for private mandates, it is a fairly rough range, i.e. 1 000 to 5 000 euros, 5 000 to 10 000, 10 000 to 50 000, 50 000 to 100 000, and above 100 000 euros, the amount rounded to 100 thousand. Why not simply publish the exact amount? I think that, again, we see that in the parties that were most reluctant to do so, there is still a balance of this fear of transparency. The second criticism concerns the problem of control. The problem is that at the hearing of the Court of Auditors in this working group on Political Renewal, the Court itself indicated to us its reluctance, its lack of resources in relation to the task of monitoring which is thus imposed on it. It is a problem of means, but the very conception of its mission bothered the representatives of the Court. That is why the PTB has defended, as is the case in France, the creation of a High Authority for Political Transparency, which would devote itself entirely to this task and would have the resources required for the qualitative leap of control that we need. It must be admitted, for the moment controls are almost non-existent. As its representatives have explained to us, the Court of Auditors' audit of assets is not to check whether there is transparency, but to check whether the envelopes are properly sealed. This is the opposite of transparency. This is my third and main criticism: we are talking about a declaration of mandate and heritage, but the enlargement of transparency only concerns mandates. However, wealth is important in the fight for transparency and against corruption. GRECO, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption body, clearly recommends publishing the assets of political agents. Its 2014 evaluation report on Belgium recommends that "the reporting regime clearly include income, various assets and an estimate of their value, whatever their form, including those held directly or indirectly in Belgium, as well as abroad, as well as liabilities, with an update of information during the mandate" (page 19 of the report). GRECO therefore clearly defends the publication of the assets of each representative. Further on, it recommends that "the various declarations, including on heritage, as supplemented, including income information, be advertised and made more easily accessible through an official website" (page 22). The PTB tabled a bill, from the beginning of this legislature, in the Kubla case. Our colleague from the MR cited a series of cases, but he forgot the one where the responsibility of the MR was blatant, even if it is equally so in cases like Publifin's. The Kubla case concerns the MR. We know that the MR is particularly involved in the Kazakhgate case. I have the impression that there is a selective memory on the part of Mr Calomne when he cites the various cases that justify this kind of proposal. This bill we have made, we are redrafting it on the basis of amendments that are introduced in the proposal before us today. We will therefore see how much the various parties in this House really defend transparency in political matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u120	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u121	We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 2809. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2809/3) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2809. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2809/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u123	We begin with the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2810. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2810/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2810. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2810/4) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the mandate list and asset declaration legislation as regards transparency on fees, extension to government directors, electronic submission and control." The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a law amending the law on declarations of mandates and assets with regard to transparency of remuneration, extension to public administrators, electronic filing and control". The bill has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u124	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 5 - Barbara Pas (2810/5) Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 2 - Jean-Marc Nollet (2810/5) • 3 - Jean-Marc Nollet (2810/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u125	• 7 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2810/5) • 8 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2810/5) Art. 11 • 4 - Jean-Marc Nollet (2810/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u126	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 13/1(n) • 10 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2810/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u127	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2, 3, 8, 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u128	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 4 to 7, 9, 10, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u129	****** We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the proposal of special Law No. 2802. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2802/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the Articles of the Special Bill No. 2802. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2802/4) The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a special law amending the special legislation on mandate list and asset declaration as regards transparency on fees, extension to government directors, electronic submission and control." The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a special law amending the special legislation on lists of mandates and declarations of assets with regard to transparency of remuneration, extension to public administrators, electronic filing and control". There are 14 articles in the proposal for a special law. The proposed special law has 14 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u130	Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 2 - Jean-Marc Nollet (2802/5) Art. 4 • 3 - Jean-Marc Nollet (2802/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u131	• 6 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2802/5) • 7 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2802/5) Art. 11 • 4 - Jean-Marc Nollet (2802/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u132	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 13/1(n) • 9 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (2802/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u133	Mr President, I would just like to comment on the amendments tabled by Mr Nollet, which apply to the three parts and aim to reduce the deadlines with a view to ensuring that everything would be completed before the end of the same calendar year and that the findings of the definitive infringements and publications in the Belgian Official Journal would also be made. The Court of Auditors already has many important challenges with these legislative changes, both in the special law and in the two legislative proposals. In 2018 they have to set up a very comprehensive website, a kind of own Tax-on-web. We know how difficult that has been for the real Tax-on-Web. I suspect this will not be so self-evident either. The Court of Auditors also has many staff challenges and additional service providers to attract in 2018. They must therefore take the test of the first year in 2019, the first year that it is operational. During the discussion in the Constitutional Review Committee, we agreed not to invite the Court of Auditors to a hearing during the committee's work, but to do so later, after the vote in plenary in the Court of Auditors' committee, in order to see what their practical challenges, concerns and objections might be. Mr Frédéric also pointed this out. I suggest that we do not increase the pressure by 2019, even though I understand the position you wish to make, but I think it would be implemented too quickly, which might put the Court of Auditors and ourselves in practical difficulties. That is why we do not wish to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u134	Mr President, I would like to point out that Mr Nollet's amendments No 2 et seq. are perfectly consistent with the time limits laid down in the tax law as regards the introduction of tax slips. From a legal point of view, these amendments are perfectly in line with what the law provides for. However, practice shows that these cards sometimes arrive late, regardless of the will of the creditor and of the beneficiary of the income. This may be related to administrative, computer problems, etc. On the other hand, very often taxpayers who have an accountant automatically get a delay, so that, not seeing the records arrive within the time limits prescribed by law, they do not worry too much about them, saying that these records will eventually arrive. The result of the races: if these amendments are adopted, there is a risk of introducing deadlines for the said declarations, considering that these deadlines are aligned with the deadlines for returning the tax slips, which would, at one point, put the persons subject to this obligation in difficulty. The deadline would have expired when they were not in possession of their documents, regardless of their will. This means that what is proposed here will at some point lead to practical problems. I repeat, these amendments are perfectly aligned with what is provided for in the law, but in practice they may cause some difficulties. That is why, despite our full understanding of the amendments, we are going to leave a trace of the exchanges we have had, aimed at those who might experience this difficulty. This will show them that the legislator was aware of it. This may provide a basis for the interpretation of the law, and prevent a person subject to this obligation from being unjustly sanctioned. The PS Group will therefore abstain, for the reasons I have just explained, from voting on Mr Nollet's amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u135	I get it. Do other groups want to speak out on the amendments introduced by different colleagues? No. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u136	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 3, 4, 8, 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u137	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 5 to 7, 9, 10, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u138	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u139	The Conference of Presidents of 28 February 2018 proposes to the Chamber of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Friendly Settlement in Criminal Matters until 31 March 2018. The Conference of Presidents on 28 February 2018 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Criminal Transaction" until 31 March 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u140	By letters of 23 February 2018, the President of the Senate shall inform that, in accordance with Article 32, § 1quater, paragraph 1, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions, the Senate, at its plenary session of 23 February 2018: - issued a reasoned opinion to the Consultation Committee on the conflict of interest on the draft law amending the law on the exercise of health professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015 (Rule Senate No. 403/4 and Room Nos 2652/1 to 8); - issued a reasoned opinion to the Consultative Committee on the conflict of interest on the draft law on the failure to take into account services performed as an unappointed staff member for a public sector pension, amending the individual accountability of the provincial and local authorities within the consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the rules on supplementary pensions, amending the modalities of financing the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities and providing additional funding for the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities (Senation No. 402/4 and documents Room 2718/1 to 8). By letters of February 23, 2018, the President of the Senate communicates that in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 § 1 quater of the ordinary law of August 9, 1980 on institutional reforms, the Senate issued, during its plenary session of February 23, 2018: - a reasoned opinion to the Consultation Committee on the conflict of interest on the draft law amending the law on the exercise of the health care professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015 (doc. Senate No. 403/4 and Doc. Chamber Nos. 2652/1 to 8); - a reasoned opinion to the Conciliation Committee on the conflict of interest concerning the draft law on the non-appropriation of services as unappointed personnel in a public sector pension, amending the individual accountability of provincial and local governments within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the regulation of supplementary pensions, amending the financing arrangements of the Consolidated Pension Fund of local and provincial governments and providing additional funding for the Consolidated Pension Fund of local and provincial governments (doc. Senate No. 402/4 and Doc. Chamber Nos. 2718/1 to 8).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u141	The Government requested urgent treatment pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 30 January 1997 on the pension system of the self-employed pursuant to Articles 15 and 27 of the Law of 26 July 1996 on the modernisation of social security and on safeguarding the viability of statutory pension schemes and Article 3 (1) (4) of the Law of 26 July 1996 on the implementation of the budgetary conditions for Belgium's participation in European and Monetary Union as regards the minimum transitional allowance, No. 2917/1 The Government requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 30 January 1997 on the pension scheme for self-employed workers was tabled pursuant to Articles 15 and 27 of the Law of 26 July 1996 on the modernization of social security and ensuring the viability of the statutory pension schemes and Article 3, § 1, 4 of the Law of 26 July 1996 on implementing the budgetary conditions for Belgium's participation in the European Economic and Monetary Union with regard to the minimum transitional allowance, No 2917/1. Before we decide on this request by sitting and rising, the government will give reasons for its request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u142	Colleagues, the bill complements the Act of 3 September 2017 amending the Act of 15 May 1984 on harmonization measures in pension schemes, adopted in July 2017. It provided for an increase of 1 per cent in the minimum retirement and full-career survival pension and 1.7 per cent in the minimum retirement and incomplete-career survival pension. The measures provided for in this bill must come into force retroactively to September 1, 2017, in order to comply with the 2017-2018 interprofessional agreement. The urgency is justified by the fact that the beneficiaries of the transitional allowance must be able to receive as soon as possible the adjusted minimum amount of the benefit, including any arrears. The project adapts the minimum amount of the transitional allowance under the welfare envelope by implementing the inter-professional agreement in which the social partners gave their opinion. This project increases the amount by 1.94% through, on the one hand, the planned increase of 1.17% for all independent minima and, on the other hand, by an additional 0.24% increase by a 15% decrease in the difference between the minimum amount of the transitional allowance and the minimum survivor's pension. The bill has retroactive effect to September 1, 2017, which is the date provided for in interprofessional agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u143	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u144	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group has decided to vote in favour of this text to regulate the procedures for the expulsion of foreigners within the Benelux area, for a simple reason: first of all, it is a question of clarifying what is being done and how, in cooperation with our closest neighbours. However, we wanted to draw attention, through my abstention, to the issues that remain ours with regard to these removals and procedures. Indeed, there are, first and foremost, elements related to sensitive destinations. There is no need here to go back to the deportations to Sudan and the violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which has been denounced both by the justice system in our country and by independent organisations. There is also, and this is not nothing, the fact that questions on the laws applicable in terms of inextremis remedies have remained unanswered. Could a Belgian agent accompanying a return to Dutch soil have the flight cancelled, as he may do when leaving Belgium, for example? Will the rights of remote persons be considered in the same way at the departure of a country, other country party to the agreement? We did not get an answer on this. In conclusion, Mr President, my group would like to be constructive about the general framework by supporting this text, but I think it is important to show those uncertainties which will have to be removed in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u147	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 130 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2862/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2862/4) Mr Christian Brotcorne voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2740/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2740/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2809/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2809/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u150	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (2810/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 5 Yes No. 127 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Mr Thiébaut voted against. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Jean-Marc Nollet on Article 3. (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Jean-Marc Nollet to Article 3. (2810/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[15]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Jean-Marc Nollet on Article 3. (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Jean-Marc Nollet to Article 3. (2810/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u151	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an article 4/1(n). (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an Article 4/1(n). (2810/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 132 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 8. (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 8. (2810/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u152	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 8. (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 8. (2810/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u153	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Jean-Marc Nollet to Article 11. (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Jean-Marc Nollet to Article 11. (2810/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 13 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 12. (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 12. (2810/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 132 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an article 13/1(n). (2810/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an Article 13/1(n). (2810/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u154	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill. (2810/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. (2810/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u156	In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole proposal for a special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes of each linguistic group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total number of positive votes cast in the linguistic groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Jean-Marc Nollet on Article 3. (2802/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Jean-Marc Nollet to Article 3. (2802/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) F I'll see you later. N Yes 7 12 5 Yes Non 25 88 63 No. Abstensions 22 34 12 Abstentions Total 54 134 80 Total The majority of votes in each language group have not been reached. The quorum of attendance in each language group has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each language group are not reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Jean-Marc Nollet on Article 4. (2802/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Jean-Marc Nollet to Article 4. (2802/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u157	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an article 4/1(n). (2802/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an Article 4/1(n). (2802/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) F I'll see you later. N Yes 2 2 0 Yes Non 52 132 80 No. Abstensions 0 0 0 Abstentions Total 54 134 80 Total The majority of votes in each language group have not been reached. The quorum of attendance in each language group has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each language group are not reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 8. (2802/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 8. (2802/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u158	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 8. (2802/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 8. (2802/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u159	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Jean-Marc Nollet to Article 11. (2802/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Jean-Marc Nollet to Article 11. (2802/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) F I'll see you later. N Yes 7 12 5 Yes Non 25 84 59 No. Abstensions 21 36 15 Abstentions Total 53 132 79 Total The majority of votes in each language group have not been reached. The quorum of attendance in each language group has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each language group are not reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 12. (2802/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 12. (2802/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) F I'll see you later. N Yes 2 2 0 Yes Non 52 132 80 No. Abstensions 0 0 0 Abstentions Total 54 134 80 Total The majority of votes in each language group have not been reached. The quorum of attendance in each language group has been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each language group are not reached. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an article 13/1(n). (2802/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an Article 13/1(n). (2802/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u160	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u161	In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole proposal for a special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes of each linguistic group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total number of positive votes cast in the linguistic groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. F I'll see you later. N Yes 54 134 80 Yes Non 0 0 0 No. Abstensions 0 0 0 Abstentions Total 54 134 80 Total The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the special legislative proposal. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (2802/6) The majority of votes in each group shall be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall be cast. Accordingly, the House adopts the special bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (2802/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-01-54-plenair-ip216x.u162	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 8 March 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 8, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 8 March 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 8 March 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
