ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u1	Mr President, Minister, the law of 20 July 1990 on the promotion of the balanced presence of men and women in bodies with advisory powers states that two thirds of the members of an advisory body of the same sex should be. This quota shall apply separately to the effective members, to the alternate members and to each structural subdivision of the advisory body. However, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men indicates that in many cases the balanced presence of men and women in bodies with advisory powers is not achieved or avoided. Recently, the permanent advisory committee of the local police was re-elected, a very important advisory body that determines the policy of the local police. Well, in this advisory committee, no woman was elected as an effective member; only two female zoning chiefs were elected as alternates. As mentioned above, some working groups are not required to comply with the law of July 1990. Article 3 provides that, on the advice of the committee, the Council of Ministers may provide for an exception to the law for an advisory body for functional or special reasons. An exception is provided for in the Regulation of the VCLP, through the Royal Decree of 13 May 2017. The presence of women in advisory councils of this kind is important, also due to the fact that women in police or fire brigades are less strongly represented in senior positions. That's why I have the following questions. What has been the percentage distribution since 2013 between men and women in advisory bodies of public services under your jurisdiction, being firefighters and police? Is there an increase in the number of women in advisory bodies? What do you think is the cause of the possible under-representation of women, which might be reflected in these percentages? Do you have information on the number of advisory bodies with a temporary status or other exception, which means that they do not have to comply with the quotas of equal representation? Why is an exception provided for the VCLP? What are you doing to increase the representation of women in police and fire department advisory bodies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, there are two bodies in the fire department, namely the High Council for the Training of Operational Personnel of Emergency Areas and Civil Protection, on the one hand, and the Advisory Committee for the Reform of Civil Security, on the other. At the High Council for Training, only 8% of the members are women at present. In total there are 24 members, of whom 2 are women. A comparison with previous years is difficult to make because the composition of the Supreme Court has recently changed. In its old composition, women were not part of the Supreme Court. So there is a net improvement. At present, 14% of the members of the Advisory Committee are women. A total of 14 members are on the Guidance Committee, of which 2 are women. Compared to recent years, this number has fallen. From 2014 to 2017, 3 women were members of the Guidance Committee, which was 21 %. The reason for the under-representation of women in these bodies is that the civil security professions have a minority of female staff. As far as the police are concerned, there is the ministerial circular GPI 74 of 19 July 2013 on the promotion of equal opportunities between men and women in the police services. The guidelines for the police are the following, and I quote: 'In addition to cases where the statutory texts do not allow that at present, I ask that the committees within the police forces and the external bodies', I am referring, among other things, to the deontological committee, the selection committee and the evaluation committee "the councils, the jury's', mainly the examination jury's "the national working groups, etc., are composed of persons of the two sexes with the aim of ensuring the presence of at least one third of the members of one sex or the other without losing sight of the criterion of competence'. Governments which nominate persons to participate in these bodies must also respect these principles. Since many policy and/or advisory bodies are legally defined, they include persons as a function. Examples of this are the Management Committee composed of the Commissioner-General for Women, and the three Directors-General of the Federal Police, the Coordination Committee for Integrated Police, composed of the members of the DirCom of the Federal Police and the Executive Board of the Permanent Committee of the Local Police, which consists of one woman and eight men. Furthermore, it concerns the college of school directors composed of the directors of the various police schools, a number of technical committees, the uniform committee, the medical fitness committee chaired by a woman and the strategic platform for violence control. In these bodies, therefore, persons are based on their function or their expertise. The gender dimension cannot always be respected. Nor do the members of these different committees all belong to the federal police themselves. It is therefore not possible in certain cases to guarantee the representativeness of women/men. I would also like to inform you that, as far as the police are concerned, a study was carried out in 2017 by the KUL, entitled "The entry and evolution of women into the police force - an investigation into discrimination'. It concluded that "the change of the spirit of time is a process of long life and evolves in the positive sense. Equality between men and women is growing, not only formally but also informally. Evolution has been only positive in recent years and can only remain positive." This study will also be renewed in 2018-2019. I come to your second question. The regulation stipulates that certain authorities should be notified when quotas are not reached. I don't have an overall view of this. For the Permanent Commission of Local Police, Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 13 May 2017 provides that the Minister or the Secretary of State, responsible for gender equality policy, should be informed in the event of an unbalanced composition. A letter to this effect is on the way, although with an additional measure taken by the VCLP, in particular the designation of an additional acting female member with an advisory vote, i.e. a chief of police. The composition of the VCLP is also laid down by law. Article 91 of the Law of 7 December 1998 provides that the members of the VCLP shall be elected. This will be further regulated through the Royal Decree of 13 May 2017. Article 4 points out the importance of a balanced representation of women in this committee. The VCLP is therefore composed on the basis of a representation and election from the provinces and the Regions. In other words, local police chiefs choose one or two representatives of their region from among their fellow chiefs. Their region, in this case the provinces or the Brussels Region. So they choose them to be there. An underemployment of women in this committee has to do, among other things, with the fact that there are only ten female chiefs of police, that few female chiefs of police have applied to sit on this committee and that the result of the election is decisive for its composition. As has just been reported, the VCLP decided in October to add a lady to the general meeting, albeit as an observer with a consultative vote for the reasons outlined above. To this end, she made a general appeal to all female police chiefs. Eventually, this became one of the two replacement female members. The letter for this is on its way. Proportionally, women are represented in the VCLP as follows: 10 out of 189 chiefs and 1 acting member with a consultative vote on 18 members. Another positive example is the Disciplinary Board, where possible seeking a balanced male/female relationship. In recent months, the composition of the Dutch and French chambers of the Disciplinary Board has been reviewed, thus respecting the balance between men and women in these chambers. These are now composed of a third woman and two third men. The recruitment campaign for voluntary firefighters made specific efforts to increase the visibility of the female staff of the firefighters zones in order to motivate other women to take the step towards the profession of firefighter. For example, posters were printed with female firefighters and women appear prominently on the recruitment website. I believe that this is a first step towards increasing the representation of women in advisory bodies. Women must be part of the workforce before they can be employed in the advisory bodies. In the police, diversity in general is an essential part of community-oriented police care. It is therefore the police's practice to monitor the respect for diversity in HR processes in the police. Much attention is paid to this in both recruitment and selection and training. It is worth mentioning that the project Recruitment on Maat van de Antwerpen police zone, where achieving more diversity was one of the main objectives. In 2013, the integrated police also signed the charter of equality between women and men as well as equal opportunities and diversity. The aim is to demonstrate the will of the police to reflect the diversity of the population in the composition of our organisation and to promote equality between women and men. This charter encourages the integrated police to organise a centralised policy on the recognition and valorisation of individual competences in which the promotion of equality is a priority objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u3	Minister, your detailed answer indicates that you attach importance to this issue. It is also good news for the VCLP that the effort was made to add the woman through the general assembly. I also feel that it was the wish of several female police chiefs to be represented in this way. It is a good thing that the internal rules provide for someone in the general assembly, even if it is without voting rights, but that is how the voice is heard. This adjustment of the past few months is a good thing. It's gonna be a while before women actually get to the top. That is why we may need to look at other measures, such as those applicable to listed companies, where it is stated that representativeness should be a maximum of two thirds by a certain period. In the short period of five years it has already been seen that it has been possible to find women without having to put too much effort into them. The companies in question even expressed a positive opinion on this, even though they initially feared that they would never reach that threshold. Well, I guess I did. If more women are to be involved in the police or fire brigades, women must be encouraged in the first instance, of course, but more stringent measures are also needed in order to make their voice heard in important decision-making bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u4	There is nevertheless a substantial difference with the boards of directors because one can recruit externally. A large number of police and fire department consultative bodies require recruitment from staff. So it starts with the recruitment. Suppose there are ten female police chiefs and they ask who wants to sit in them, there appears to be very little response. That's where it starts. You're talking about women at the top. Well, the police have a woman at the top and soon she will be at the top of Europol.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u5	Mrs. Van Hoof, you probably want to know who's gonna be her successor? Hopefully a woman, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u6	That would be a good thing. With regard to women in the police force, I also know that training is organised in such a way that it is very difficult for a woman to combine work and family life. Training would not be organized in a family-friendly way, which would make it difficult for women to pass through. I was going to give you that element anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u7	Mr Minister, while the debate on the rest of the nuclear park is still raging, the previous and current governments decided to extend the lifespan of Objectives 1 and 2 and Tihange 1, the oldest nuclear reactors, by ten years. This is preceded by a process called LTO, a study to map the lifetime extension and the necessary innovations. The cost of that renewal operation shall also be mapped and monitored. Of course, that is not a static, but a dynamic fact, which is why I have the following questions for you as guardian of the FANC, who normally has the most insight into that process and those costs. To what extent is the FANC involved in the LTO update for these reactors? How is this monitored and evaluated, in terms of safety as well as cost? Can you provide me with the adapted tables with the cost and state of investment at the end of 2017 for Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1? Are there any investment costs originally included but no longer included in the extension operation? If yes, which one and why? Are there certain new investment costs to be added? I would like some text and explanation because it is interesting to get an estimate of the cost for these reactors and also because it gives some perspective on an estimate for other discussions and other possible lifetime extensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u8	Mr Calvo, as part of the long-term operation of the Tihange 1 and Objective 1 and 2 nuclear power plants, operator Electrabel is obliged to implement the LTO Action Plan approved by the FANC through its operating licence, as amended by the KB of September 2015. The full list of LTO actions Tihange 1 and Objectives 1 and 2 can be found in the reports of the operator and of the FANC which are publicly available on the website of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The deployment of that LTO action plan for Tihange 1 and Objectives 1 and 2 is closely monitored by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and its branch Bel V. This succession takes place in different areas. In addition to the checks and delivery in the field of the adjustments of the installations by Bel V, the FANC and Bel V continue to follow implementation closely through regular working meetings. The focus in these discussions is mainly on overall progress, possible delays and planned changes in the implementation of the actions. We can say that Electrabel is currently correctly implementing the LTO Action Plan in line with the set calendar in the LTO Action Plan. The estimate of the cost of the LTO Action Plan is not one of the FANC's powers or competences, which also does not have tables of investment costs to which you refer. For this, please contact Minister Marghem, who has the elements of investment and investment costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I thought I had already asked Minister Marghem and she had referred me to you, but I am not quite sure. I'll check it out. I note in advance that I have to be with her for the costs and that you indicate that this renewal operation is largely on schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u10	Mr President, my question concerns a less well-known aspect of the FANC than is the subject of regular questions. The FANC has also been an actor in the debate on port expansion for a long time. This is important with the Doel nuclear power station and its proximity to the port of Antwerp. In the past it has been shown that the FANC also had some comments on the plans that were on the table. However, there is now a new development in the area of port expansion. Your partymate Ben Weyts has put on the table a new plan for the expansion of the port of Antwerp. The timing of the plan is somewhat unexpected, because at the same time different actors were together to discuss the study work done. I understand that the FANC was part of the consultation. It is not surprising that the timing of the new plan comes as a surprise. In view of this, the question arises as to the extent to which the FANC's comments have been taken into account or taken into account. What is your role in this as the overseeing minister? I'm not interrupting the N-VA minister but the FANC's supervisor with these questions. What do you, as the supervisory minister of the FANC, think of such a working method of your Flemish colleague? What advice has the FANC issued on port expansion? What are the most important issues at the moment? Can Parliament have these opinions in the context of transparency and openness of administration? How is the discussion with the FANC on port expansion going? What initiatives have you taken as the overseeing minister? I suspect you will meet your fellow Minister Weyts on a regular basis, which may also be an opportunity to record the grievances in your conversations with him. Finally, will the FANC, in addition to your own initiatives, take additional initiatives in response to the new port expansion plan? Safety and nuclear safety are very important. You, like me, have to watch that very seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u11	Mr Calvo, the FANC has been following spatial developments in the immediate vicinity of the Doel nuclear power plant for many years. In the past these were specific dossiers, such as the planned construction of the Doelpolder as a reduced tidal area to the west and north of the nuclear power plant and a new Saeftingedok south of the nuclear power plant. In the past, the FANC has delivered several opinions, including on the Regional Spatial Implementation Plan Delimiting the Zeehavengebied Antwerpen. More recently, the FANC is also actively involved in the stakeholder consultation on the integrated research in the complex project extra container handling capacity port area Antwerpen. The task of the FANC is indeed to ensure that the population and the environment in Belgium are effectively protected against the dangers of ionizing radiation. In analysing the integrated research in the complex project, the additional container handling capacity of the port area of Antwerp is limited to the possible risks to nuclear safety and therefore specific to the nuclear plant target. What are the main concerns of the FANC? Firstly, there is the long-term vision for the environment of the Doel site, which will remain a nuclear site for many years to come. That's not a pre-announcement. I just want to say that the decommissioning and storage of radioactive waste will take several years. The second point is the protection against flooding of the nuclear power plant target. The third point is the potential risks of the nuclear power plant. Fourthly, it focuses on the accessibility of the nuclear power plant Target for emergency services during the planned works. Fifthly, it also has an eye for the maintenance of a dual independent electric power supply for the nuclear power plant. Sixthly, it also wants a clear process to be able to analyse all the specific risks of new installations or operations in the immediate vicinity of the nuclear power plant and, where necessary, to take the necessary measures. In this respect, the FANC therefore wishes to remain involved in the project at further stages, with the Agency gladly taking advantage of the possibility to further analyse the documents and studies, both at the current stage and at the next stages, and to provide up-to-date advice through the regulatory advisory procedures laid down for this purpose. I have therefore taken the liberty of informing myself about this in the cabinet of my good colleague Ben Weyts. He has informed me that the ninth alternative will also be the subject of stakeholder consultation and that the FANC will be invited to this. Afterwards, the nine alternatives will be proposed to the Flemish Government, which will have to make a preliminary draft preference decision. In the following procedure, a public consultation will take place where there is once again the possibility for the actors concerned to provide feedback. To your question, therefore, what I think of this method, I can say with confidence that it is a proper and sound method in my view. I didn't expect anything else from an N-VA minister. Your request for specific documents can be addressed to the FANC itself in accordance with the internal Rules of Procedure of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will contact the FANC myself directly to request some advice. In the past, the FANC has expressed relatively fundamental concerns about port expansion. I hope that they will be followed not only in words but also in deeds and that you will not hesitate to address your N-VA colleague, if necessary. To be continued, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u13	Minister, I come once again to you with regard to the call centre 101 in the province of Hainaut. As I said before, the situation is very complicated. Last November, you indicated that forty-two people were going to be hired from January 2018. This was, you said, one of the means used to reduce the pressure on call-takers. In response to a written question, you said that of these forty-two people, five were finally withdrawn. You also informed me that only one person would be dedicated to the centre of Hainaut, against ten in Liège, six in Brussels, three in the province of Luxembourg and three in Namur. Minister, how do you explain this important difference for the Hainaut, which benefits very little from this new wave of recruitment with one person? Five people who have withdrawn, will they be replaced by five others? If so, will this benefit the province of Hainaut? Are new waves of engagement expected in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u14	Mr Flahaux, the distribution of staff between the various centres 101 is the responsibility of the Federal Police, which is responsible for the operational management of these centres. According to my information, the Federal Police considered it necessary to allocate the vacant places on the basis of a criterion of equity between all the centres, in order to ensure the optimal operational functioning of all the centres. The five people who have withdrawn will indeed be replaced. The distribution will most likely be based on the same criterion. So I won't be able to tell you at the moment whether the 101 center in Hainaut will benefit from it. The call-takers that will leave the service in 2018 will be replaced. New recruitments will therefore take place in 2018. I would like to wait for the results of ongoing projects and others that have not yet been deployed, such as the effect of application 112 on the processing of calls and the use of an interactive menu of choices, to ensure that calls arrive immediately in the right emergency centre. An in-depth evaluation of these projects must provide me with the information necessary to make an appropriate and proportionate decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. Let us be clear, I am very pleased that the other provinces have been able to benefit from this reinforcement of people, but I am nevertheless quite concerned that there is only one person in Hainaut to back up. It is still the most populous province and where a fairly acute understaffing has been detected. That is the reason for my new question today. I think you can understand that very well. Thank you for referring to the fact that the five people who have withdrawn will actually be replaced and that there will be a new wave of commitments based on the number of people who will be leaving in 2018. We will have the opportunity to take stock of this. You like me, we care about efficiency. I therefore hope that we will be able to have the necessary staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u16	Mr. President, Minister, the alarm bell has recently been drawn about the safety of many buildings. In fact, preventive missions are becoming more and more difficult for firefighters. As a result, waiting times are prolonged in an intractable manner. Several relief areas report a very problematic situation, with delays of up to 30 per cent. The President of the Royal Federation of Belgian Fire Brigades recently reminded the press that "when the deadline is exceeded, the opinion becomes automatically favourable". This can be very problematic in some cases. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you whether you are following this subject closely, which I have no doubt about. How do you assess the extent of this problem? Have you identified specific areas that are strongly affected by these types of problems? Do you have tools to improve the situation? If so, which areas will they be privileged and within what time frame? The prevention files are obviously very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u17	Mr Flahaux, the regulation of fire prevention in buildings built or to be built falls within the competence of multiple levels of power, mainly at regional level, sometimes simultaneously, among other things, depending on the use made of these buildings. It is often the responsibility of the rescue zone to prepare a fire prevention report. This report shall be drawn up in accordance with the applicable rules, either at the request of the mayor of the municipality or at the request of another person (contractor, owner, operator, etc.). referred to in those rules. Therefore, the setting of strict deadlines and the possible consequences of a lack of opinion fall within the competence of the various authorities which enact these standards. The contents of the fire prevention report and compliance with any deadlines are the responsibility of the emergency zone. My services do not have statistics on the compliance of emergency areas with any time limits set by either of the regulations adopted by one or the other level of authority. Despite the fact that my powers on this point are limited, given the competence of multiple levels of power, I believe that the 2015 reform has already improved the situation. First, the reform of relief services has resulted in the pooling of personnel resources at the relief zone level. Previously, when a fire prevention technician from a municipal fire department was unavailable, it was necessary to conclude an agreement with another municipality with a fire prevention technician. Currently, the Zonal Prevention Office is responsible for preparing a fire prevention report for any municipality in the area. At the end of 2015, three training courses were set up (prevention 1, 2 and 3). It is no longer necessary to complete all the training in fire prevention, as was the case before, in order to be able to carry out a prevention mission. Simple preventive tasks may be performed by a holder of the "Prevention 1" certificate, the tasks a little more difficult by a holder of the "Prevention 2" certificate and the most complex tasks by a holder of the "Prevention 3" certificate. Members of the administrative staff of the zone may also attend these courses. To sum up, in my view, the possible non-compliance with the relevant deadlines is therefore not a consequence of the reform but could result from the zonal management of human resources. Particular attention will be paid to this point during the inspection of the emergency areas in order to remind them of their responsibilities in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u18	Minister, thank you for that answer. The responsibilities are, first and foremost, at the level of the relief zones. The attentive minister you are could encourage through training assistance at different levels and possibly through subsidies, as is done in police areas where the victim service receives regional assistance. One could imagine such or other assistance in the context of security reports. Real estate projects are sometimes slowed down or even eliminated because of this problem. The supervising minister you are may also encourage fire zones to carry out their duties, so that they affect sufficient personnel for these safety reporting issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 23395 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u20	Minister, a child has only one child ID. The kids ID is often with the guardian or in case of co-parenting with one of the parents, while the child is either at certain periods, such as the holiday or the same amount with the other parent. This may cause problems, for example, in the reimbursement of medical costs in case of sudden hospitalisation or, soon, in case of a visit to the general practitioner. Sometimes the kids ID is also needed to travel abroad. Of course, travelling abroad always requires the consent of the other parent, which is a good thing, because we must prevent abuse. But sometimes problems can arise when things happen without permission. Is it possible to make it administratively easier for parents with co-parenting to obtain a copy of the kids ID? What solutions can be offered in such situations? If a copy does not belong to the possibilities, is an indication on the e-ID of the parent then possible, so that it can prove who the child is in the hospital, for example? What about traveling to another country? Will a copy be enough? The consent is still necessary, because of course we want to prevent legal kidnapping, which sometimes happens. For practical reasons, it would be good to offer a solution, especially in the case of co-parents, but sometimes even in the case of parents without co-parenting, but in which the children spend half of their holidays. Those children can be sick and then one can also need the kids ID.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u21	Mrs Lanjri, the problem you are describing is not new and can be divided into a number of aspects. For example, I refer to Recommendation 3 which the Commission for the Protection of the Personal Life Area of 2011 formulated in 2011 on the taking of a copy of the identity card on its own initiative. It concludes that no copy of the identity card is taken outside the cases prescribed by law and that the legislator limits the cases in which the taking of a copy of the identity card is required to the cases where this is necessary for reasons of public interest. That recommendation applies equally to the child ID, which is also an identity document, provided that the child ID is not a mandatory document for the child. I note that this is not the first time that the problem has been referred to my administration. On our website our position was included in the section "Kids ID" at the frequently asked questions. There is this question: "Where can you go as a parent if the other parent refuses to provide you with your child's child ID?" The answer is: "A kids ID is an identity document that belongs to the child. The child shall be the holder of the document. Like other official documents, the kids ID should in principle move with the child from one parent to another. The parent who requested the kids ID does not have the right to withhold this kids ID. If the parent to whom the child ID was issued refuses to provide this identity document to the other parent, the municipality cannot under any circumstances issue a second child ID for the same child. Nor, where appropriate, is it the responsibility of the municipality to intervene in the dispute between parents. The municipality can therefore refer only the parents to a family mediator or a parenting intermediary. I remind you that a kids ID is initially an identity document. Your examples relate to secondary functions of the kids ID. For use as a travel document, I refer to my colleague from Foreign Affairs. Without going into detail, I can say that the passport is a valid alternative. I can also confirm that the same child may be in possession of a child ID and a valid passport. For the purposes of reimbursement of medical costs, I can still tell you without going into detail, as Mrs De Block is entitled to say that only the national register number is necessary to obtain the information in the context of reimbursement of medical costs. The national registry number can be read in the kids ID's chip, but can also be entered manually in the application, based on an isi+ card, for example. That's the map of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. That makes sense, I only see that divorces sometimes bring out the worst of the human being and don't give out the kids ID and the isi+ card. I understand your arguments. If a conflict persists, one should address one's family mediator or court. I regret that there are no other solutions. I will look again at the administration's website to see if we can continue with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u23	Minister, I would like to ask you about your speech on behalf of the federal government at the Chinese New Year ceremony at the Chinese Embassy. In your speech, you mentioned the trade relations between Belgium and China and you mentioned only the economic centres of Zeebrugge and Antwerp among the Belgian flagships. I do not dispute the importance of these two poles, but, as a federal minister, you should have shown more inclusiveness, as important economic poles in our country are present throughout the country, including in the Walloon Region. Similarly, by evoking the must-see tourist sites of our country, you have only mentioned the cities of Brussels and Bruges and yet we also have some tourist flowers in the Walloon Region. Why was such an unbalanced speech between the three Regions and Communities of our country delivered on behalf of the government in an official forum? Can you tell me if you had your text first validated by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u24	Mr Crusnière, I did not understand the third part of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u25	Had the speech you gave officially at the Chinese Embassy been validated by the Prime Minister in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u26	Mr Crusnière, for three and a half years, I have been Minister of the Interior. I said from the first few days that I would be a minister of the interior from Ostend to Arlon. I'm in the field and you can follow me much more in Wallonia than in Flanders. Everything I do and what I don't do is followed. My speeches and speeches are read and read everywhere. After three and a half years, you found something to criticize! I named two ports, but no Walloon port: great, congratulations! Next time, I'll add the port of Durbuy or something. I'll do it! Here, it was for an international audience. Then we talked about the tourist sites and, it is true, I named Bruges and Brussels. You took three and a half years to find a speech where I forgot to name a wonderful Walloon city! I'm gonna get better. You can be sure that in the future, I will always declare a Walloon city when I quote a Dutch-speaking city. Fortunately, I must not submit all my speeches, all my speeches to the Prime Minister. The same applies to my thirteen other colleagues and the Secretaries of State. The Prime Minister has more interesting things to do than spend his time rereading our texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of the fact that, from now on, you will make the effort, as federal minister, to highlight the strengths of the Walloon Region in your official speeches. I do not dispute the action you have taken since you took office. But I believe that, in the context of this type of speech, it is important to highlight all the economic and tourist advantages of all the regions of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u28	Mr President, Minister, ONDRAF has just taken a position in favour of geological storage as an integral part of the national policy for the management of radioactive waste B and C. However, it is well known that the International Commission for Radiological Protection (ICRP) imposes a procedure of prior justification (cf. ICRP, Publication 122, main points, page 11). I would like to know whether the principle of the definitive geological storage of waste has already been "justified", for example when the plants are authorised, or whether it still needs to be subject to a procedure for the study of "justification", duly validated by the AFCN, before the government can finally adopt the national policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u29	Mr Nollet, you asked Minister Marghem the same question, which makes sense. The Act of 3 June 2014 on the transposition of Directive 2011/70/Euratom on the management of radioactive waste provides that ONDRAF must propose a relevant national policy to the government, which may adopt it by royal decree, after advice from AFCN. This policy for the management of radioactive waste also requires a strategic environmental impact assessment by the SEA Opinion Committee. In this impact assessment, the different policy options must be compared and, on this basis, the choice chosen must be justified. ONDRAF submitted an SEA study in 2010 with the publication of the Waste Plan. The SEA Opinion Committee gave a positive recommendation to this study. AFCN has indicated in its submission that deep storage of Category B and C wastes is the safest solution at this time. However, the principle of justification as defined by the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) goes beyond the mandate of AFCN in terms of radiation protection (ICRP, Publication 103, Articles 2 and 205) and also includes socio-economic aspects (same publication, Article 208). At each strategic stage, choices should be justified. The General Regulation for the Protection against Ionizing Radiation (GRPRI) also provides that, when applying for authorisation for the storage of radioactive waste, the justification shall appear in the safety report, as in the case of any nuclear installation. Thus, when an authorization is requested, the choices expressed will always have to be justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u30	Minister, the term "justification" is not neutral. You know as well as I do that it assumes many procedures. I understand in your answer that, at each stage, choices should be legally justified. This implies that the government, which has now become aware of the ONDRAF proposal – as you say – must wait until the justification is validated by the AFCN before it can finally decide on geological storage, even if the SEA Opinion Committee has already delivered its opinion. I assume that this is how I must understand your use of the term "justification". If you confirm this to me, I will satisfy myself and then move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u31	Mr Nollet, when the word "justification" is used in a parliamentary response, it is the legal acceptance that must be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u32	Minister, that's what I thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u33	Minister, what is AFCN's communication policy on key social networks (Facebook and Twitter)? How long has the Agency been there? What are the principles that guide his communication? Who is responsible for this specific communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u34	Mr. Nollet, AFCN does not have a Facebook account for the Agency. But AFCN has had a Facebook account for its campinese branch since July 2014. Based on a request from local authorities in the Mol-Dessel region, AFCN provided a permanent service in the region to answer the various questions of the citizens. In 2014, it was decided, for reasons of efficiency, to replace this presence on site with a Facebook account specifically addressed to the citizens of this region. This account therefore serves as an electronic window, a point of contact to answer specific questions about Campine's nuclear facilities. The AFCN is associated with the Facebook account No Rays without reason for the eponymous information campaign on medical imaging, launched by the Public Health FPS in 2012. This account has enabled AFCN to disseminate recently the video and information of its latest campaign to raise awareness among pregnant women of the risks of ionizing radiation during pregnancy. AFCN has been present on YouTube since early 2015. This channel allows her to post various videos, such as corporate films, training on orphan sources, awareness campaign materials, etc. AFCN has also been active on Twitter since the end of January 2018, so quite recently. With regard to the Agency's policy, transparency is one of the Agency's main values. It makes every effort to communicate in a transparent, neutral and objective manner with the general public. Public organizations live in a diverse society with multiple expectations for transparency and quality of information, among others. That is why they must communicate with their collaborators as well as with the outside world. To this end, social networks are seen as a means of sharing information externally and, more specifically, to give greater visibility to the Agency's mission and its various activities. You are aware that the Agency is active in a wide range of activities. Therefore, the Agency's Twitter account is currently being used with the aim of sharing as much as possible these different news releases and news. The AFCN is therefore present on social networks. However, the evolution of technologies and public expectations constantly leads to new forms of interaction and communication outside the formal structures which the Agency takes into account. The Commission remains attentive to the development of new communication channels and continuously evaluates the relevance of their use. This is done in line with the Agency's desire for continuous improvement. Finally, the management of the AFCN's Campinian branch Facebook account is managed by a AFCN collaborator. The Facebook account No rays for no reason comes from the Public Health FPS. AFCN's YouTube and Twitter accounts are managed by AFCN Communications.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u35	Being at the beginning of my questions, I will remain positive. I can only invite you to intercede with AFCN to go further. Today, we know that a lot of people are informing themselves via social networks. We like it or not; that's not the point. It seems to me that the Agency is lagging behind in this matter by not having a own Facebook account (I'm not talking about the account for the specific management you mentioned). You also have a Twitter account, Minister. I understand it's about 53,000 subscribers. Do you know how many subscribers are registered on the AFCN Twitter account? 94! It seems to me that this speaks volumes about the fact that we still need to introduce and develop this approach among the citizens. But there is also a need for the Agency to see an interest in it (to inform within the framework of its tasks more broadly) and for it to launch a campaign for citizens to subscribe. But you know how it goes! People subscribe if there's information. I therefore propose, since there are sometimes incidents in nuclear power plants, that at the next information...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u37	Certainly no level 7! That's clear. But I propose that it be via the channel of a social network that it communicates the information. This can be diversified. I can only invite you and the Agency to increase the use of these social networks because it is a way to correct mistakes that we sometimes make in our own communication and to inform the public as they feel they should.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u38	The number of subscribers is increasing rapidly because in the meantime, the account has increased to 95.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u39	Minister, how do you react when federal agency staff say, in the course of this audit, "the managerial incompetence of our management, their lack of vision, their bias (...), their non-compliance with procedures (...), the anarchic spirit that reigns makes the work very complicated and unmotivating" or "a difficult point is undoubtedly the lack of vision of management and the lack of collaboration between department directors"? The unions also estimate that almost nothing has been done since the results of the survey were published in June 2016. The Belgian Free Press on 8 February also informs us that the external office which carried out the audit on the physical and psychological well-being of the Agency's workers deplores the weakness of the Agency's reaction. The consultant also gave a very critical opinion on the action plan required by the Social Inspectorate of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. As this action plan was required by the Social Inspectorate on September 30, 2017, what evolution has the Social Inspectorate communicated to the AFCN about it? Do you confirm that, for any reaction, the external office has just received a letter signed by Jan Bens and listing AFCN's grievances against them? Isn't there again a denial of reality in the head of management? Given this situation, what are you going to do to alleviate the psychosocial burden on staff? Beyond these elements related to human relations, the testimony has something to challenge us in terms of security and safety. AFCN staff members go so far as to say: "I don't feel like I'm doing my job properly. AFCN and Bel V are not demanding enough for Electrabel." How do you react to this? Does this not lead you to intervene firmly with the leadership of the AFCN?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u40	Mr Nollet, before I specifically answer your various questions, let me contextualize the conduct of this inquiry and its various stages. First of all, you should know that this is not an audit but a quantitative survey of psychosocial risks. This investigation is a legal obligation defined in the Welfare at Work Act. At the time of conducting this survey within the AFCN in 2016, the analysis had revealed, among other things, indications of an increased psychosocial burden among staff. As a result, the Agency's management has worked to develop an action plan to respond to the findings of this survey, with the aim of reducing the psychosocial burden and consequently increasing the well-being of workers. In September 2017, this action plan was forwarded to the Social Inspectorate, IDEWE, the Internal Service for Protection and Prevention at Work (SIPPT) and trade union organisations. They, with the exception of the Social Inspectorate, provided their comments, which were then analysed by the Agency's management. During February, the finalized version of the Action Plan was forwarded to IDEWE, the SIPPT and the Agency's Heads of Service. It will soon be presented to the Core Consultation Committee and to all staff. This is how I answer your specific questions. 1. The Agency's management has taken note of all the findings revealed by this investigation. It has therefore worked on an action plan to respond to these findings, with the aim of improving the well-being of workers. The content of the action plan is based on six areas of improvement: vision, values, operating framework, paper management, collaboration and knowledge management. 2. The action plan was forwarded, as requested, to the Social Inspectorate. The Agency has not communicated anything to the AFCN on this matter. 3. AFCN did send a letter to IDEWE, but this letter does not specifically address the action plan. It concerns the overall services provided by this external office within the broader framework of the contract between a service provider and its customer. The purpose of this letter was to find solutions to this problem. As a result, Agency management has repeatedly indicated its willingness to meet with IDEWE management to discuss the points mentioned in the letter which, I repeat, does not concern the action plan as such. 4. Management takes this matter very seriously. As indicated, it took note of the findings of this survey and has since worked on an action plan with the aim of reducing the psychosocial burden on staff and increasing well-being at work. 5. The process of developing the action plan is coming to an end. This process took several months during which many stakeholders were consulted: the Internal Occupational Protection and Prevention Service, IDEWE, trade unions, trustworthy people and heads of service. As I have told you, the final version of this action plan will soon be presented to the basic consultation committee and then to all staff. Finally, it is not possible to draw a comprehensive safety conclusion on the basis of individual testimony. However, management took note of this individual finding. As attested by the development of this plan, management takes into account the well-being of its staff so that they can carry out their protection mission in the best possible conditions. The facts show that the AFCN never hesitated to stop a plant when the safety or security of the plant was not guaranteed. I repeat, I have complete confidence in AFCN. I can confirm to you that the Agency is carrying out its mission of protecting populations and the environment with all the necessary seriousness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u41	Minister, I will not take a decision on your answer right away. I'll take the time to analyze it. Indeed, I would not want to be too hard when that might not be justified. Nevertheless, I will say a word from the Agency's famous letter to the office, not an audit, but an investigation, of which you have spoken. I'm correcting my point. My question is: Are there any reproaches, grievances or was this letter purely technical? Were there any criticisms of the approach taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u42	Mr Nollet, if I am well informed, this letter did not concern the investigation itself, but the collaboration between IDEWE and AFCN. In this regard, we have several criticisms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u43	So you're talking about the method of investigation, but not its content.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u44	Not even. IDEWE provides much more service to AFCN than this one investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u45	So it was about the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u46	This concerned collaboration between these two institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u47	For the rest, as I said, I will analyse the elements and come back to the subject if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u48	Minister, this is obviously a medium- and long-term issue, but these are getting closer and closer. It is known that, broadly speaking, nuclear power plant control accounts for 20% of AFCN's activities but 80% of its revenues. We also know that your government has decided to confirm the closure of nuclear power plants by 2025. Every time I asked him, the Prime Minister was very clear on this point. I can therefore only congratulate the government as a whole. Minister, what have you put in place to prepare for the future and sustain the Agency's funding? Don't tell me you're considering extending the power plants! That would be very vicious of you. What is your vision for future funding of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency's missions? Is it not appropriate to put an end to any form of potential conflicts of interest related to the current funding mechanism, which, for example, means that any decision to shut down a power plant could negatively impact the Agency's resources? By whom will AFCN's nuclear waste management control role be funded? Is it not appropriate to impute this to producers before their activities cease in 2025? What other avenues are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u49	Mr. Chair, Mr. Nollet, the AFCN Steering Committee has been considering the Agency's funding in the long term for some time now. The purpose of this strategic exercise is to determine the key tasks of the Agency, i.e. missions relevant to a security authority, and how to finance them while taking into account external influence factors such as operator decisions or political decisions. The Agency's management committee relays its thoughts to its board of directors in order to put the matter on the agenda of the future government. However, you do not escape the fact that the Agency's funding is governed by the AFCN Act and, if an amendment is made, the responsibility lies with the legislator. As indicated in the Government Agreement, the Government will ensure adequate funding for the work of the PSAN through fees paid by the authorization holders. It will also regulate the financing of public interest submissions. Public funding is not considered in this context. The AFCN Steering Committee's reflections on the long-term funding of the Agency's activities are indeed focused on a diversification of its revenues. One avenue under consideration is that of self-financing. The activities carried out by AFCN for certain sectors, such as transportation, the medical community and industry, should be structurally funded by the latter. In addition, royalties and taxes are fixed either by royal decree or by law for a fixed period of time. This allows the PSAN to maintain its independence from licensees. Whatever the sanction imposed on it by the Agency, it does not have any impact on the tax due and, per corollary, on the financing of the AFCN. The possible temporary shutdown of a nuclear facility also does not affect the Agency's revenues. It may therefore decide on a case independently. Then, the possibility that you suggest is indeed under consideration. Finally, if your question relates to the funding avenues of the AFCN, I refer you to my answer to your third question. On the other hand, if it concerns more specifically the financing of AFCN's activities in the context of radioactive waste management, I cannot answer you for the moment, because the reflection is under way in my services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u50	Minister, I'm pretty worried. Indeed, we have known this problem since 2003, since the law then decided to put an end to nuclear power. This issue has obviously been dealt with for only a short time. I hear that discussions are continuing and are open on the financing of waste treatment. But the deadline is approaching. And waste control has already to be carried out, since we know that some will soon be deposited in the ONDRAF facilities. I am also concerned when I look at the proportion of funding that could disappear, i.e., 80%. I do not see how self-financing could fill this gap. You didn't give me any time to think about it. Should I come back to you in two or three months, in order to be relevant and avoid coming back with this topic at each meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u51	(...) after the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u52	I will therefore come back to you in September to make this matter clear. The stakes are important, and I think you are aware of them. Now we have to see what solutions can be made. So I'll be back in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u53	Minister, the OVV Investigation Office has just released a 200-page report that confirms that we are not well prepared for a nuclear accident with cross-border consequences. What do you remember from this report? Is not such a state of unpreparedness after 40 years of operation of our plants an issue for us? It is known that a meeting between AFCN, OVV and the Dutch Security Authority (ANVS) was scheduled for 12 February. What's out of it? One of the main conclusions of this report is that cross-border cooperation must be tested and that citizens must be involved in large-scale practical evacuation exercises. You know that this is particularly important to me. I have asked you a number of questions on this subject. When will a large-scale cross-border evacuation exercise involving citizens be organised in Doel? When will a large-scale cross-border evacuation exercise involving citizens be organised in Tihange? Another observation of this report is that it is easier for Belgians to obtain information on future procedures for the Borssele power plant than for the Dutch to learn about those relating to the Doel and Tihange power plants. What have you put in place to address this lack of transparency?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u54	Mr Nollet, first of all, I would like to point out that the report absolutely does not say that we are not well prepared for a nuclear accident with cross-border consequences. As mentioned in the answer to question No 23540, the report lists many positive points and points which can be improved. However, I do not consider that we are in such a state of unpreparedness. I have complete confidence in the AFCN and the Crisis Centre to take these points of improvement into account in the future. I would like to point out to you that the ANVS and the AFCN had already committed themselves, long before the publication of this report of the OVV, to expand and deepen their cooperation and to organize further their exchange of information, as provided for in the collaboration protocol signed between the AFCN and the ANVS last September. In this constructive and cooperative approach – an aspect also formally recognised in the VVO report – the two regulators met in a constructive atmosphere on 12 February, with the aim of improving communication and exchange of information and establishing as effectively as possible how they communicate, in line with the recommendations expressed in Chapter 6 for the ANVS. I would like to point out that the recommendations contained in the OVV report are addressed to the Dutch regulator. However, on the AFCN side, this report is seen as an opportunity to improve and optimize cross-border cooperation. The practical arrangements for a comprehensive exercise are defined by the Crisis Centre, in consultation with all the public and private authors involved in the nuclear emergency plan, following a specific methodology. The objectives are set by the Steering Committee, in consultation with the various partners, and formalised in an exercise agreement. The choices are made by a set of partners and must take into account a range of constraints and capabilities available to test these aspects. Public participation remains an important focus in the organization of nuclear exercises. With the Crisis Centre, we are thinking about how best to involve him more in future exercises, including through evacuation exercises. As indicated in the answer to your questions No. 10500 of 8 April 2016 and No. 20213 of 6 September 2017, Doel's 2009 exercise showed that organizing an evacuation out of the real crisis situation does not improvise and demands a huge workload in terms of preparation, information, training, communication and specific measures for the population. Account must also be taken of the follow-up of persons who have been evacuated such as registration, sorting and possible decontamination. Moreover, in the margins of the financial period, the various units deployed must continue to carry out their day-to-day missions, while taking into account certain priorities. It goes without saying that, in times of crisis, the mechanisms will be focused primarily on managing the nuclear emergency situation and assisting the population. The report does indeed state the differences between legal systems and procedures. However, AFCN takes into account the concrete elements of each authorisation dossier and makes a case-by-case assessment of the parties to be informed, always in line with the procedure laid down in the regulation of Belgian nuclear installations. Be aware that these procedures are public, and that the OVV mentions the differences between the procedures, but does not express itself in the sense of a lack of transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u55	Mr Minister, on the exercises, I agree with you that this is not being improvised. My idea is not to do an exercise without warning. My idea is to take the time to organize it. Admit that it has already been several years – as you yourself said – that, through my questions, I invite you to organize this type of exercise. However, during this Parliament, I have not seen anything happen yet. I can only come back with this, and I will do it again regularly, because I think that many lessons can be learned from such exercises, including in their cross-border dimension. That is what is mentioned in the report. Secondly, I urge you not to minimize the content of the report. You say there is no criticism of transparency. The sentence I quoted is clear. This is the finding that it is easier for Belgians and Germans to obtain information on the procedures for the Dutch power station in Borssele than for the Dutch to obtain information on those for the Doel, Tihange and Emsland power stations. This is a clear statement of the lack of transparency or, in any case, of the least transparency than in the Netherlands. I do not think it is a good policy to take refuge behind the fact that the report was officially submitted to the ANVS. This report must appeal to you and the various actors in Belgium, and that the changes are in line with what emerges from this report. I am talking about changes in transparency, but also in the management of things and in the organisation of cross-border life-size evacuation exercises. Of course, this is not improvising, but it can still be organised by the end of your legislature. For this reason, I turn to you to give this impetus to the Crisis Centre, where, as Minister of the Interior, you are widely represented – which is quite normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u56	Minister, the AFCN Board of Directors has just dismissed Ms. Stroobant, a member of the Executive Committee, responsible for human resources, finance, information technology and logistics, and responsible for the specific mission of equipping the AFCN with a modern and concerted human resources policy, which I insist on because I want a response from you. What are the reasons and reasons for this decision? What are the links with AFCN's psychosocial burden, the two dismissals that raise the question of 2017, illegal recruitment and the absence of a description of a function that the press has echoed, such as La Libre Belgique in its articles of 8 and 12 February? The functional descriptions form the basis of any human resources management system. In his mission letter to Jan Bens, the establishment of a modern and concerted human resources policy was also requested by your predecessor, Mrs Milquet. Was the lack of a modern and concerted human resources management policy at the AFCN today an element taken into account in this termination decision? By what previous steps has this termination been preceded? Since when were you, as the appropriate minister, informed of this proposed dismissal? Did you or your firm intervene in this matter in any way, either because you were consulted, informed, consulted, or because you were directly or indirectly involved in such a process? What is the status of this modern and collaborative human resources policy within the NWCA? Is Ms. Stroobant the only one responsible for the failures? To the extent that AFCN staff were informed that this was a decision of the Board of Directors, what then was the role and attitude of the Director General in this termination process and in decision-making? Did he propose this dismissal to the Board? If not, did he attempt to defend Ms. Stroobant? I would like to have specific answers on these elements and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u57	Mr Nollet, the decision to dismiss the Director of the Support Department was taken by the Agency's Board of Directors, which was not fully satisfied with the human resources management policy. This decision is the result of a breach of trust between the Director and the Management Board due to breaches of the Agency's rules and procedures. After a report by the Court of Auditors, which had revealed some shortcomings, the Audit Committee asked the Internal Audit Service to conduct a more in-depth investigation. The Director was invited to the audit committee on several occasions and had every opportunity to defend herself in an adversarial debate. However, his defence did not convince the audit committee. On a proposal from the members of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors unanimously decided to terminate the employment contract. The Government Commissioner was present at the meetings of the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. He obviously informed me of this important decision. Neither the latter nor myself have intervened in this decision-making process, which, I repeat, has been enshrined by unanimity of votes. The development of an integrated and modern human resources management policy continues. To this end, various projects are being developed and, where appropriate, will be discussed in CWB and/or the Sector Committee. These include the introduction of personal objectives, an annual minimum discussion with the supervisor on the achievement of these objectives and the personal development of the employee, the drafting of a human resources policy and related processes, a revision of the working regulations, the continuation and completion of the classification of functions project, the revision of the evaluation process, the implementation of a common soft skills training course, etc. Although the Director General assumes responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Agency, the Management Board considered that the shortcomings identified were primarily the responsibility of the Director concerned. I would remind you that this decision is taken by the Board of Directors, which has the prerogative of dismissing the members of the Management Committee. The Director General therefore did not intervene in any way in this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u58	Minister, whatever you think of the substance of your answer and the decision, your answer is clear, and I thank you for that. Firstly, with regard to history, it is based on a report by the Court of Auditors. I don't know if you've had the opportunity to say it, but it's worth it. Secondly, I accept the audit committee and, thirdly, the unanimous decision within the Management Board. I note that neither you nor your Commissioner intervened. There are very specific elements about this in your answer. I also note, although Ms Stroobant is not necessarily the only one, because of the hierarchy, to sit on the steering committee, that she is the only one to be sanctioned because she is the main responsible. The responsibility for failures is attributed to him. I also note that you are absolutely saying that the Director General did not propose the procedure and did not intervene in it, neither in the audit committee, nor in the board of directors, nor outside, nor vis-à-vis you, so that you would stop things. I assume that this concerns the whole process and that there was no intervention on its part.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u59	Mr Nollet, you are very interested in structure and human resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u60	Mr President, Minister, it is indeed very important that the AFCN and that the public from Antwerp to Arlon feel concerned by...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u61	No, no! From Ostend to Arlon! And even from La Panne to Arlon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u62	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u64	From Durbuy to Ostend, we have to pay attention to this. More seriously, Minister, Mr. Pouleur's dismissal led to a linguistic imbalance on the PSAN Executive Committee. In order to meet this requirement of parity, the DirCom and the Board of Directors had decided to hire a French-speaking assistant general manager. It must be noted that, two years later, this commitment is still not effective despite the fact that the creation of this position appears in the context of the 2018 staff. Worse, it doesn't even seem to be budgeted in 2018. Minister, do you confirm this situation? What are you going to do about it? How long is recruitment being built to be effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u65	Mr Nollet, at the time of Mr Pouleur's departure, it was concluded that, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the Agency, five directors were sufficient. Two royal decrees regulate the issue of linguistic parity: the Royal Decree of 25 December 2017 determining the linguistic framework of the AFCN and the Royal Decree of 25 December 2017 determining the degree of hierarchy of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. There is provision for the function of Deputy Director-General. With regard to the deadline, the Agency's Management Board considered that it was preferable to wait until the new Director General took office before discussing this function. The new Director General will need to look at this issue in more detail. The Management Board therefore considered that this step would take time and therefore this commitment was not budgeted for 2018. For this reason, I cannot give you a deadline on this commitment. The new Director General takes office on 1 May 2018. That will be one of his priorities. It was estimated that the likelihood of an assistant director being operational in 2018 was quite low. That is why no budget has been made available. However, if it is still feasible to hire an assistant director in 2018 and he or she has no notice to give, a budget will be provided and he or she can be hired.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u66	I hear things are now going to unblock. I understand the logic of not necessarily including it in a budget. If it's feasible, we do it and we hire it right away. So I don't have a problem with what's going on right now. I have another problem, however, namely that we waited two years. Two years ago, we didn't know exactly when Mr. Bens was leaving, why, or when. I would like to highlight this difficulty in my reply, not the difficulty of the last few weeks, which seems simple to me. Now that the decision is made and the Director General is about to arrive at the date you mentioned, it makes sense to me to see complementarity, not only linguistic, but also function. They should not come from the same sector, and they should have functional and relational complementarities. I would like to make a final invitation not to drag anymore, but you have abounded in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u67	Minister, you will recall the position of many scientists asking Belgium to abandon the use and use of highly enriched uranium. You yourself have had political contacts in Washington with the aim that our institutions (CEN-SCK, IRE) no longer use this type of dangerous uranium, particularly in terms of proliferation of nuclear risk. In the Netherlands, isotopes produced at Petten will use only low-radioactive uranium. Do you see clearer about phasing out in Belgium? When will our country finally abandon the use of highly enriched uranium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u68	Highly enriched uranium is still used in Belgium in the irradiated target form as part of the production of medical radioisotope by the National Institute of Radioelements (IRE) of Fleurus and as a fuel in the BR 2 research reactor of the Mol SCK-CEN Nuclear Research Centre. Necessary actions are under way to convert these two applications to low-enriched uranium. With regard to the use of highly enriched uranium as a target irradiated by the IRE, the Royal Decree of 24 October 2017 allows the IRE to adapt the production process with a view to a gradual transition to a process entirely based on low enriched uranium. The IRE is currently preparing this transition and is planning to close by 2020. With regard to the use of highly enriched uranium as fuel by SCK-CEN, tests have recently been carried out to qualify a new low-enriched uranium fuel. The results demonstrated the need for further development of this new fuel. In 2018 and 2019, new tests will be conducted in the BR 2. It is only after a successful qualification of the fuel that conversion to low enriched uranium can take place. Note that SCK-CEN works closely with various stakeholders in the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u69	Minister, I know you are attentive to safety in all its dimensions. You also know that I pay particular attention to nuclear security issues. For the rest, it is my colleagues who are concerned about it. But as far as nuclear safety is concerned, the faster Belgium emerges from the highly enriched uranium, the safer we will live at home. From this point of view, the timing you are announcing for the IRE seems interesting to me as a deadline is set. We can see that this is achievable. The Netherlands is also doing so. For the SCK-CEN, I assume the date will be clarified soon as the process is under way as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u70	Mr Minister, I am also asking your colleague about this issue because it is on both tracks. I'd rather not take a chance. I'd like to take a topo with you on the packages containing a gelatinous substance, discovered among the packages of radioactive waste packaged. What is the origin of this problem? Is this concern also encountered elsewhere in the world? How many potentially non-compliant packages have been identified? Where are they stored? Is there a project to build a specific storage building for potentially non-compliant packages? Some suggest a step backwards, taking into account the costs. Not all drums would be tracked in a building equipped with special equipment and state-of-the-art monitoring techniques. Do you confirm that all potentially non-compliant packages will be stored and carefully monitored? What is the option for long-term management of these? What is the budget required for the inspection and management of these defective drums, including building construction? Who pays for the cost of building this building, managing and inspecting drums? In short, who will be responsible for this budget, not originally planned, and when will it be charged? What is the share of packages already inspected? When will all of these be inspected? Does an adaptation of the legal framework prove necessary to improve the management of such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u71	Mr. Nollet has only 20 questions... I come to my answer. This problem is, in all likelihood, the result of the alkali-silicate reaction, a phenomenon well known in civil engineering, at the international level. To date, no other cases of conditioned radioactive waste have been discovered. We are talking about 8,941 cases, 8,483 of them are stored on the Belgoprocess site and 458 on the Doel plant site. Belgoprocess submitted an application for authorisation to AFCN on 24 April 2017 for a building specifically intended for the long-term storage of this waste. On January 29, 2018, the Agency informed AFCN that, in collaboration with ONDRAF, it had decided to set an evaluation period for this storage building in order to analyse alternative solutions. The Agency expects to receive more explanations in the coming months from ONDRAF and Belgoprocess. Moreover, the storage of these drums does not pose an acute safety problem because the buildings in which they are stored provide sufficient guarantees to ensure their safe storage. ONDRAF is currently studying four possible scenarios for the management of all or part of these wastes. Some of the packages have not been potentially affected by this phenomenon and are therefore still consistent for surface storage. It can be shown that the influence on artificial barriers in a geological repository or surface is negligible. It can also be demonstrated that the influence on artificial barriers in a repository is not negligible, but acceptable to overall safety. Wastes must be reconditioned until they are considered acceptable. It is only when the results of the ONDRAF list are known that the ONDRAF can make one or more proposals. Your eighth and ninth questions do not fall within the purview of the FANC. To answer your tenth question, by the end of 2017, 4,906 barrels had already been inspected. By the end of 2018, 5,825 barrels are expected to be inspected. In addition, it should be noted that 2,658 drums are currently not considered a priority for this inspection because of the low risk of freezing these drums as well as for reasons of optimisation of radiation protection. The aim here is to avoid exposure of personnel, given the limited risk of freezing these drums. Finally, the current AFCN jurisdiction framework allows for the safe management of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will wait until I have more information from your colleague and eventually return to you. Indeed, the process is still under way. A little more than half of the drums were inspected. So several thousand still have to be. At this point, I can only observe – you probably make the same observation – that these drums have evolved in a way that was not planned. Of course, this is probably relatively low activity waste. But this shows that, in the nuclear field, the evolution of waste is not fully controlled. It is therefore extremely important to maintain regular control of the latter, but also to have the capacity to recover them with a view to repackaging them properly. As long as this is not the case, they cannot be stored with the other waste. I can only go in the direction that is yours. But this leads us to wonder about the other wastes which are more dangerous and whose evolution is not controlled. This is another debate. I will therefore come back to this point later. In any case, I would like to thank you once again for the information you have given me today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u73	Mr Minister, the IRSN, the French equivalent of AFCN, presented on 31 January last in Moscow, at the first meeting of the international commission of experts set up by the Russian authorities, a report dedicated to the examination of the origin of the radioactive cloud loaded with ruthenium-106 which flew over Europe. This report concludes that a release of a significant amount of ruthenium located between Volga and Ural, which would have occurred at the end of September 2017 during a irradiated fuel treatment operation cooled about two years, is the hypothesis that best explains the measurements from atmospheric radioactivity monitoring stations in different countries. The conclusions of the IRSN are in agreement with those of the Commission as regards the importance of rejection, the impossibility of an origin linked to a medical source or satellite, and the hypothesis of an incident during a irradiated cooled fuel treatment operation about two years. On the other hand, there is still uncertainty as to the location of the rejection site. IRSN assumes a release from an incident in an operation using irradiated fuel cooled for approximately two years at the Mayak plant in the area between Volga and Ural. But the Russian Security Authority refuses to validate this hypothesis - in any case, at this stage. The next meeting is scheduled for April in Moscow. How does Belgium follow up on this investigation? Is the AFCN associated with it? Was she and will she be present at the Moscow conferences?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u74	Mr Nollet, a meeting on the presence of ruthenium-106 in Europe was indeed held within the framework of the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group (ENSREG). A working group has been set up, bringing together a few Member States, with the intention of investigating this rejection. Belgium is not one of them. However, AFCN closely follows the analyses and studies carried out, as well as the discussions with the Russian authorities concerning this event, although it has had no impact on Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u75	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u76	Minister, what are the restrictions and prohibitions in terms of overflights of the Tihange and Doel facilities? What radius and flight height are prohibited? How are Belgian standards in relation to standards in other countries? We know that Bierset is in the centreline of the runway. What particular problems does this pose? I would like to refer here to questions that the citizens ask me regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u77	And I, Mr. Nollet, give answers to questions that you ask me regularly. There are indeed restrictions on the overflight of nuclear power plants. These are described in the Aeronautical Information Publication (ENR 1.1-29). The Royal Decree of 19 December 2014 also applies with regard to the overflight of nuclear sites and other critical infrastructure. It is therefore prohibited to operate an aircraft over the Tihange power plant at a height of less than 701.4 metres within a radius of 1,852 metres around the power plant. For Doel, it is therefore prohibited to operate an aircraft over the Doel power plant at a height of less than 609.6 metres within a minimum radius of 600 metres around the power plant, up to eight kilometres, depending on the type of aircraft and whether it is night or day. As regards comparison with existing standards in other countries, I invite you to contact my colleague, Mr Bellot, whose competence it is. As far as your last question is concerned, I suppose you mean that Tihange is in the direction of the Bierset airport runway. I will answer that question anyway. The position of the runway axis in relation to the Tihange nuclear power plant is not a safety preponderant. The most important safety elements are, rather, the density of air traffic, the position of air routes relative to the plant or the proximity of airports. I also invite you to contact my colleague the Minister for Mobility, since Belgocontrol guarantees that these rules will be respected with the airport authorities in Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u78	Minister, thank you. I'll have an overview when I interview Mr. Bellot. This height seems to me to be relatively low in relation to what I am told exists elsewhere. I am also told, but perhaps you yourself know, that any overflight of the Royal Palace is forbidden, even above 700 metres. This will be the subject of another question, but I would like to know: in your opinion, as Minister of the Interior, what is the most dangerous between a Royal Palace and a nuclear power station?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u79	"Give back to the Royal Palace what belongs to the Royal Palace and give back to the nuclear power plants what belongs to the nuclear power plants." I paraphrase The Bible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u80	I suppose that was validated by the Prime Minister, that you had your speech corrected, but that is a good answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u81	The Bible, anno MMXVIII.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u82	It is the government agreement that is the Bible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u83	Minister, I would like to repeat with you the topo on the storage capacities of the Tihange pools in view of the current situation, but also of the extension of the Tihange 1 power plant. When will the capacity of these pools be saturated? What do you plan to do with spent fuel when this saturation has been achieved? Since a shipment to La Hague is no longer possible, are you going to catalogue it as "waste" and have it transferred to ONDRAF? Are you going to build a capacity extension in Tihange? If so, in what form: swimming pool or dry storage? Do you confirm that the cost of these operations will be fully charged to the operators? How will ENGIE Electrabel finance this work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u84	Mr Nollet, after being sufficiently cooled in the specific deactivation pools attached to each reactor, the spent fuel from the Tihange reactors was moved to a centralized storage pool in the DE building. However, its capacity is limited and is expected to reach saturation by 2023. ENGIE Electrabel has already recognised several years ago the need to extend the temporary storage capacity of spent fuel and has already taken steps to this end. It also studied the various options and subsequently preferred dry storage in spent fuel containers. In addition, she has detailed this concept in recent years. AFCN expects to receive authorization for a new storage building at the Tihange site in the coming months. The company is looking forward to commissioning this new facility by 2022. As an operator and holder of the authorisation for a new facility, it is responsible for costs, including operational costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u85	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will take the time to analyse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u86	Minister, you had the opportunity to let us know at the turn of another question that the planned meeting with your French counterpart had taken place; an appointment at which you would take the time to discuss the safety of nuclear power plants, a point that you would take initiative on the agenda. I would like to come back to this meeting and to know what specific topics have been discussed in connection with the nuclear issue and, above all, what conclusions are drawn from it. In particular, I would like to know what you have said about the dangerous Chooz plant, which is enclaved in Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u87	Mr Nollet, as I said in my answer to question No 23303, I met with the French Minister of the Interior on the margins of the Cybersecurity International Forum in Lille on 23 January. It was a short interview during which we covered a lot of points, including nuclear safety. In France, nuclear safety is not the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. Other ministers have competence in this area, for example in nuclear safety regulations, but, in essence, it is the responsibility of the nuclear safety authority itself, and the College of Commissioners of the Nuclear Safety Authority reports to Parliament. The ASN is known worldwide for its expertise and I have no reason to doubt the proper monitoring and safety of nuclear power plants in France, including the Chooz and Gravelines power plants. The AFCN and the ASN have had very good cooperation and exchange of information for years. I am thinking of cross-inspections, joint training, regular exchange of information and good practices at all levels. I have given my appreciation to my French colleague on this subject. As far as crisis management is concerned, we already have useful contacts (24 hours a day, 7 days a week) and useful contacts within the framework of the European Mechanism. Contacts and projects also exist between governors and prefects of the border provinces. Nevertheless, your questions and concerns about the Chooz and Gravelines power plants show that there is a demand for further work. Within our crisis centre, there was also a demand for true collaboration, structured at the national level, in preparing for crisis management. I have discussed these issues with Minister Collomb and we have agreed on the following. The French crisis centre will designate a contact person for the Belgian crisis centre in order to deepen the cooperation between the two crisis centres. The bilateral working group on population protection provided for in the Franco-Belgian agreements will be relaunched to improve and structure cooperation and the exchange of information both in preparation and in crisis management. These agreements also provide for the possibility of signing technical arrangements. From this working group, initiatives can also be taken at the local level. Belgium intends to propose its approach methodology for alerting, exchange of technical information and technical and radiological analysis of the situation, exchange of technical opinions on the measures to be taken, exchange of decisions on the protection of populations, operational cooperation on the ground for the implementation of protection measures, information for the population and assistance. The services concerned will be involved in the work as each of these points are processed. This will also make it possible to clarify the counterparts in each of these approaches, and to have them work together. The second and third points referred to above are already dealt with in the Franco-Belgian working group on nuclear safety. The exchange of information at the local level can thus be optimised, so that any anxiety caused by certain reports about power stations in the border region can be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that there was nothing specific about the Chooz power plant. I understand, on the other hand, that the overall reflection on security has been addressed, that you have put in place a series of processes and that you have reinvigorated procedures. I will inform Mr Gilkinet, who is particularly attentive to it. Perhaps he would consider it useful to contact you specifically about the Chooz power plant or perhaps he would consider that the methodological arrangements envisaged were sufficient to examine developments in the coming months and years. I also thank you on behalf of my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u89	Minister, I have already asked you many times about the Japanese company Kobe Steel, which has admitted to falsifying the performance of products delivered to more than 200 customers for years. The company admitted that its employees had provided false quality inspection reports for products used in the automotive sector, but also in the nuclear industry. During these exchanges, you told me that Kobe Steel was linked to welding material used in the manufacture of steam generators from Tihange 2, Doel 1 and Doel 2, but that you still had to wait until the information from the subcontractors of the higher levels came to you to get a complete view. In our last discussion on the subject, you informed me that, with regard to higher-level subcontractors, full information would be available from the beginning of February. I therefore come back to you today to know the answers, which I hope are now complete. Has one of our nuclear power plants been, through subcontractors, an indirect customer of Kobe Steel? What are the components that may be affected? Have you received all the guarantees that direct falsification - particularly on steam generators - and indirect falsification - through subcontractors does not pose any risk to our plants and therefore to workers and residents? Are we witnessing a second scandal, after the Creusot Forge case which is still far from having revealed its true magnitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u90	Mr Nollet, as I have already explained, AFCN has asked Engie Electrabel to determine whether certain components of Belgian nuclear power plants are affected by this massive fraud. In-house actions were undertaken to verify whether the supply was made directly to Kobe Steel and to each of its suppliers of large nuclear components. Engie Electrabel was able to confirm very quickly that Kobe Steel is not a direct contractor. The three major subcontractors that have supplied large nuclear components since the 2000s - Framatome, Westinghouse and Mitsubishi MHI - have also quickly confirmed that they did not purchase directly from Kobe Steel, with one exception to which I will return. For several months, these grade 1 contractors have asked all their subcontractors to verify whether they have obtained supplies from Kobe Steel. Most subcontractors in Westinghouse and Framatome confirmed that they did not purchase Kobe Steel. Orano, for his part, confirmed that the containers of spent fuel in Belgium are not concerned by the problem, as I told you in your last question on the subject. For its part, Mitsubishi MHI reports that, during the period of fraud, some of the welding materials for the manufacture of steam generators for Doel 1, Doel 2 and Tihange 1 power plants were supplied by Kobe Steel Limited. Mitsubishi MHI indicated, however, that these welding materials are not affected by the frauds of Kobe Steel Limited. To be 100% complete, outside the period of fraud, MHI informed that some unpressured draughts were supplied by the Tihange 1 steam generators - manufactured in 1992 and 1993. Engie Electrabel keeps AFCN regularly informed of the progress of research carried out by its contractors. In view of the evolution, Engie Electrabel is now planning to have a complete file in March 2018. All the information available today shows that Belgian nuclear power plants are not affected by the Kobe Steel scandal. It would also appear that this scandal mainly concerns non-ferrous materials and therefore little used in the nuclear industry but rather in the aeronautics industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u91	Mr Minister, thank you for this state of affairs. I think I will be able to close the case one last time by coming to April, since it is in March that you will have the last elements. I will therefore ask you again in April to see, I hope, that there is definitely nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u92	Minister, it was in March 2016 that all the radiological approvals of the Doel nuclear power plant were suspended with immediate effect. The same decision came in April 2016 for Tihange. At the December 2016 meeting of the Nuclear Safety Sub-Committee, AFCN made remarks on the approvals of Engie Electrabel's equipment. A biennial report has been requested. I would like to share with you the status update in February 2018 regarding the packaging of waste, whether in Tihange (7 approvals have been suspended or expired) or in Doel (3 approvals have been suspended or expired) and as regards the non-packaged waste in Tihange (2 approvals have been suspended). Where are we today? What does the AFCN think? Has she been involved in the process yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u93	I would like to point out that radiological approvals for waste are the responsibility of ONDRAF. This question may be addressed to the Minister of Energy for further information. Loss of authorisation means that a certain type of waste cannot be disposed of from the site to EuroProcess. This situation is not an immediate safety issue. On the other hand, the accumulation of waste on site is not without limits. A quantity of waste beyond certain limits may cause potential problems. AFCN and its technical subsidiary Bel V conduct field inspections to ensure safe storage of waste at sites. The PSAN is not directly involved in the licensing management process but is kept informed of the status of the site. With regard to radiological approvals, Electrabel informed AFCN that the Doel nuclear power plant had recovered all radiological approvals for unpackaged waste. For the packaged waste, Doel recovered one. The other two will be recovered in the medium term, including one at the beginning of 2019 and another at the end of 2020. The Tihange nuclear power plant recovered a radiological approval for unpackaged waste. Another licence will be recovered in the short term. For packaged waste, the plant plans to recover two radiological approvals by 30 June next. A final one is expected to be recovered in early 2019. The AFCN cannot rule on this schedule. I suggest that you ask the Minister of Energy further questions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u94	Minister, that is exactly what I have done, as you will know. Since the AFCN intervened in December 2016 in the file, I have allowed myself to question you as well. However, at the turn of your answers, I note that, for many months - and even, for some approvals, for many years, since we are even talking about 2020 - the operator Electrabel will operate without approval for some of the packaged waste. In short, this situation will last about four years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u95	Minister, following the restructuring carried out at the time by Willy De Roovere, the Regulatory & International Affairs Department (RIAD) was created to strengthen compliance with Article 43 of the AFCN Act of 15 April 1994 concerning the independence of the regulatory function of the supervisory and supervisory function. This department, also in charge of ensuring interdepartmental transversality, no longer exists. It was deleted by Mr. Bens. What were the reasons for the dismantling of the RIAD Department? How does the new structure ensure the independence of the regulatory function from that of the oversight and control function and the consistency of the cross-cutting activities of the PSAN? What are the management system processes that ensure this independence? How is this independence verified and monitored? Since the development of regulations is carried out by persons attached to a department providing supervision and control, they participate in the activities of that department itself. How is it therefore possible to avoid conflicts of interest and to ensure the independence of the AFCN vis-à-vis operators?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u96	Mr Nollet, in fact, the RIAD department was dissolved in 2016 following the secondment to the European Commission of Yvan Pouleur, former director of this department. For reasons of efficiency, the Management Committee considered it appropriate to allocate the expertise of this department, i.e. about ten senior experts in the other departments. The regulatory function is performed by the Legal Service, which reports directly to the Director General and is independent of the services providing oversight and control. The Legal Service works in collaboration with the Agency's functional services, as the RIAD department previously did. The coherence of AFCN's cross-cutting activities is ensured by the experts formerly members of the RIAD department, now attached to the various heads of department. This consistency is also ensured by the Management System Unit attached to the Support Department responsible for the deployment of the Agency's management system and the promotion of cross-cutting activities. First, the regulatory policy and associated procedure for the drafting of regulatory framework texts mark and describe the mechanism for ensuring this independence. Secondly, policies such as the "Inspection, Authorisation and Strengthening" policy are other regulatory tools to ensure this independence. Internal audit, which is an independent body, ensures compliance with the rules and the proper implementation of policies and processes. The Director General also ensures the proper implementation of policies and processes. There are indeed management reviews at the management level. These allow for periodic evaluation of the functioning of the Agency and, at the same time, to verify that the independence between the regulatory function and the monitoring and oversight function is effectively guaranteed. Finally, there are international peer reviews mechanisms, such as IRSs, which evaluate and monitor the effectiveness of this independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u97	Minister, I am not reassured. I believe that this device, even if you try to show that there are beacons, is contrary to section 43 of the 1994 AFCN Act. I do not understand why we wanted to merge, if it is to have to then put tags such as those you mention. It seems much easier to go back to two different departments. I will ask the lawyers if I need to reconsider my position, but according to my reading of your answer and the elements I have been able to note on the flight, it seems to me to be contrary to section 43 of the Agency Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u98	Minister, an evacuation from Tihange 3 had to be orchestrated on Tuesday 13 February following the discovery of a suspicious package. Can you tell us more about this package? What was it all about? Where was he abandoned? How could he get there? Who found out? What measures have been taken and what consequences have this had? What lessons do you learn from this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u99	Mr Nollet, on Tuesday 13 February, a truck carrying various parcels was registered at the Tihange nuclear power plant. The contents of the truck were moved to the access control building where it was checked, as required by the procedure. It was therefore not within the technical area of the nuclear site. When the vehicle was checked, the package responded positively. A specific procedure has therefore been put in place. The internal emergency procedure of the plant has been initiated. As a result, the parcel control area was evacuated and the police and the Explosives Removal and Destruction Service (EDEDS) visited the site. SEDEE controlled the package and determined that it contained no dangerous elements. The suspicious package contained measuring equipment for the Tihange 2 reactor. This incident demonstrates that the security measures inside and around the Tihange power plant are very rigid. Everything is strictly controlled and no risk is taken. There is no indication, in the case of this occurrence, that additional security measures are required. However, these security measures are constantly assessed and adjusted as necessary. This event had no impact on nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u100	Minister, thank you for your answer. I suppose you were able to appreciate the caution in the question. I appreciate the accuracy of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u101	Minister, when will the information campaign on the distribution of iodine tablets to all Belgian citizens begin? What will this campaign involve? What channels will it pass through (television, internet)? How many exercises will be conducted per year to test this new contingency plan? When will a life-size evacuation exercise be conducted in Tihange? When will a full-scale evacuation exercise involving hundreds of citizens be organized in Doel to test the evacuation component of this new emergency plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u102	Mr.Nollet, the nuclear risk information campaign will officially begin on 6 March 2018 - next week - and will continue throughout 2018. The Iodine Predistribution Campaign will be launched following the official launch of the information campaign. Based on dialogue, the campaign will be divided into different information actions, but also at times of interaction with citizens, so that everyone better understands the nuclear risk as it exists in Belgium and knows what to do in the event of a nuclear accident. The specific website www.nuclearrisk.be, available since 2011, will first be fully updated. It will be the reference place, accessible 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for citizens and professionals. Information is the first action that people can take in the face of nuclear risk in order to better prepare for it. Collaborations will also be conducted with various radio, print and online media for the widest possible dissemination of the campaign. Through social media, targeted awareness-raising actions will be accompanied by live dialogue between experts and citizens. A video capsule to raise awareness of nuclear risk, but above all information about the right reflexes to adopt in the event of an accident, will also be broadcasted via social media. The essential thing is, of course, to ensure that the reflex of shelter is understood and adopted by all for their own safety, but also to facilitate the intervention of the authorities and services concerned. For direct and complete information, brochures will be available from 6 March in all pharmacies across the country and from cities and municipalities located in a nuclear emergency planning area. This approach of direct information and interaction will continue through information sessions organized by the Crisis Centre, in collaboration with AFCN, AFSCA, AFMPS - and SPF Public Health, for health professionals such as general practitioners, gynaecologists and pharmacists, in every nuclear area of the country. At the request of the communal authorities located in these areas, an information session may also be organized for the population, so that coherent and comprehensive information is reinforced by educational discussions. The objective of the nuclear emergency planning exercises is to test the effectiveness of the response structure in an emergency. The new contingency plan provides for an annual exercise for nuclear power plants and every two years for other Class 1 nuclear sites. You also asked me about the exercises in your question No 23678. So my answer is the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u103	Minister, thank you for your full answer. The completion of the much-needed renovation of the contingency plan is the result of a lengthy process. I hear it's March 6th that the campaign will start. I guess by that date, all pharmacies will be able to deliver iodine pills. Indeed, we know how this is going: people can go to an office very quickly, after hearing the information about it. I only want to check that pharmacies will not be supplied ten days later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u104	Yes, yes, that's the point. I'm thinking of the leaflets that will be available in pharmacies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u105	Yes, the folders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u106	Folders, flyers, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u107	Minister, thank you for this marathon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u108	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 23756 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's report was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u109	Mr President, Minister, the foreign terror fighters (FTF) represent a huge potential danger for many European countries, including ours, even though the terrorist organisation known as the Islamic State has undoubtedly lost ground in Iraq and Syria. More than 700 names of men and women have at one time been recorded in the Belgian database of the jihadists and their close parties in these combat zones. Close monitoring of these people is essential in the current context, even though they are still far from their country of origin, ours. In addition to the questions I asked this morning to the Minister of Defence and which I will soon ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would like to know how many Belgian foreign terror fighters, to the knowledge of the Belgian authorities, are currently detained in Syria and Iraq, either by the Kurdish forces of the YPG, by the Kurdish peshmergas of Iraq, by the Syrian authorities – the official government of Bashar al-Assad – or by the Iraqi authorities? Could you give me the breakdown by category? I'm not talking about returns, I'm talking about those who are being held in local prisons on the spot. How many women and children of Belgian jihadists are, to the knowledge of the Belgian authorities, kept in camps in Iraq and Syria? Are there any discussions with these different entities and/or governments to deal with their cases? If so, who is in charge of these talks? Does the Federal Police and/or the OCAM play a role in these international exchanges? How?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u110	Mr Hellings, according to information available to OCAM, the Belgian FTFs currently detained in Iraq are two men. Twelve Belgian FTFs are currently in Syria, in detention or in a refugee camp. Five of them are men who were arrested for being placed in a centre under the control of the FDSYPG, the Syrian democratic forces. People's protection units, the Kurdish YPGs are the main component of the SDS. In addition, a total of seven women with six children had been placed in various refugee camps. It is not in the interests of Belgium or of our national security that these people return to our country. The general attitude of the Belgian Government is not to take any active steps towards the return to Belgium of Belgian FTFs who have stayed in Iraq and Syria and, in principle, not to provide support in the event of an effective return. There is therefore no such mediation initiative. As far as I know – but it is better for you to put the question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs – neither do we have any contacts with our diplomatic representations in the region. If an uncontrolled release proves to be a serious danger to our security, we will of course take the necessary steps. However, an exception was made for young people under 10 years of age. The National Security Council agreed that Belgium would assist them in the event of their return. I must add this: you mention Syria and Iraq. But also in Turkey, there are arrests of foreign fighters. We have established a contact point with the Turkish authority to arrange, if necessary, their return.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u111	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer, which is much more complete than your Defence colleague gave me this morning. I welcome your concern for transparency, which is very useful. I think, like you, that the Belgian authorities do not have to try to bring back these people, who are extremely dangerous. On the other hand, there is a real interest in monitoring them on the spot for the purpose of collecting information and checking what they are becoming, so that they can not harm security both in the country in which they are located and in ours. I hear your concern for children under the age of 10. Of course, they do not have to pay for the turpitudes of their parents. I also think that among women there can be people who can return to Belgium, make amends and pay judicially for the acts committed. They could also be recovered, re-entered our society and taken shape with it. Children and women could help repair the immense evil caused by these foreign terror fighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u112	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 23884 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Jadin's 23905 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Metsu's 23909 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u113	Mr President, Mr Calvo's question covers three pages. Our answer is five pages long. There are limits to oral questions. My cabinet works day and night to answer the written questions on time. We've been pretty close for two years. In der Beschränkung says sich der Meister! I do not want to interfere in parliamentary work, but some things belong in an oral question, others in a written one. I would ask you to report this to Mr Calvo. The answer is ready, we can send it right through. Five pages answer, that's a written question. After that one can still ask a commentary oral question. I believe that this approach is more appropriate than the present one. Excuse me for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u114	Your comment is justified. The Conference of Presidents has already been referred to the problem of certain oral questions which would be better put in writing. It is possible to follow the example of the Flemish Parliament, where the President and services can strangle together. The question is before me and I can see that this is indeed a matter of prior written consideration. There are questions about facts and figures. I will draw the attention of the Conference of Presidents to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u115	Mr. President, we'll have coffee together whenever you like. I will pass on the remarks of the Deputy Prime Minister to my group leader. I always make sure, minister, that the questions I address to you do not go beyond one page. I believe that, for working in a firm, it is extremely delicate. Minister, on 9 February, two undocumented people were locked up following a controversial police operation at an event organised by the Flemish cultural association Globe Aroma in Brussels. These two individuals are still locked in the 127bis centre of Steenokkerzeel. In response to questions posed to you at the plenary session of the Chamber on 22 February, you stated that the local Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone had requested this action in the context of a so-called BELFI operation, aimed, among other things, at suppressing alleged terrorist-related acts. When questioned at the Communal Council on Monday, 26 February, the mayor of Brussels, Philippe Close, acknowledged that the police area under his charge had taken this initiative and that the information available to local officials had proved to be incorrect. They were intended to increase the number of BELFI actions whose police zone must be a partner in order to obtain structural reinforcement in the territory of the city of Brussels. The inclusion of Globe Aroma on a list of drinks that could hide other activities, such as radicalisation, was therefore a decoy on the part of the mayor of the city of Brussels and the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone. Hence, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my three questions. Has this information on the inaccuracy of the information justifying the request for intervention from the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone been officially transmitted to the Federal Police and/or your office? Since the mobilization of local and federal police has taken place in vain, what procedures will you change in order to significantly limit the risks of unfounded interventions, with budgetary consequences (a judicial action, 25 police officers), but especially human, important? Of course, we are thinking of these two people without papers arrested. Finally, since the mission of 9 February proved to be irrelevant, in any case from the point of view of the fight against terrorism, which must mobilize all our police forces, can the two people arrested that day hope to leave the closed centre in which they were imprisoned in the near future? If so, when? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u116	Mr Hellings, first of all, a little clarification. The local police in Brussels did not ask me to take action, but they asked the BELFI authorities under the BELFI procedure. So I'm not the one who intervenes. As you know, I have no view of the results of the judicial investigation. It is therefore impossible for me to appreciate the assertion that this is not correct information. This is part of the judicial investigation. With regard to the two persons arrested, they are illegal residents for whom the prescribed procedure has been followed. Since this is a prosecution action, I must refer you to my colleague Koen Geens, Minister of Justice, on this second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic830x.u117	Thank you for the lighting you've done. I am fully aware that BELFI operations are decided between independent bodies (both prosecutors and local and federal police). This does not preclude two remarks in this case. The first is that the mayor of Brussels, obviously, does not hold his police. He does not give the direction he seems to want to give politically. In any case, they are not reflected in the formal decisions taken by the police within this BELFI structure. We still have to realize that the ASBL Globe Aroma is financed by the Echevinat de la Culture de la Ville de Bruxelles. Normally, the City of Brussels knows very well what is happening in the ASBLs it finances. However, recent experience shows that this has certain limitations. This is my second point. Clearly, the Brussels police are using the BELFI structures to try to increase the number of times the federal police will be present on the territory of the city of Brussels and the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone. This is a terrible way of doing things because a lot of human resources – I am thinking here of federal police officers – and therefore budgetary resources, have been spent on a very low risk, all to increase the intervention of the federal police. That's really a shame. In my view, there is much to be done in this city of Brussels. I am thinking here not only of parallel non-profit organisations, but also of the way in which political guardianship is exercised over the local police.
