ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u2	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Inez De Coninck, Wouter Raskin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Marcel Cheron, rapporteur, apologized and referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u4	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally discussing the railway police bill on administrative fines. Our railways have had problems with the enforcement of all kinds of infringements for years. Think of the black driving by travellers, the non-compliance with all kinds of transport conditions, the unnecessary use of the emergency brake and so on. For example, because of the black-driving, SNCB loses a lot of revenue, but it also affects the sense of fairness of travellers who do buy a ticket correctly. Undeclared driving is by far the most serious infringement but there are other disturbing infringements that cause problems. Let us think of people who do not comply with all kinds of transport conditions or who violate the comfort, or even safety, of other travellers. The prosecution of such infringements often follows only a long time after the facts. This, of course, undermines the recurrent deterrent effect of the punishment. Some of the victims pile up dozens of violations. The present system of punishment does not or hardly deter them. In a minority of cases, the procedure results in effective prosecution. The immense size of the number of infringements is a huge burden on the courts. The general conclusion, on which there was a consensus in committee, is that punishment should be faster, better and simpler. This will be possible thanks to this bill. The idea of introducing administrative penalties to combat minor offences in public transport has been for several years. Our colleagues in the Flemish Parliament already decided in 2004 to introduce administrative fines for De Lijn. Such principles have also been applicable to STIB and TEC for years. The idea of introducing this into SNCB has been circulating behind the scenes of the railway group for several years. By introducing these administrative sanctions, the railways are being given the means to play a shorter game on the ball. It was an important starting point for the design to be able to play shorter on the ball. This matter was dealt with first in Parliament on the basis of the legislative proposal by myself and Mr Raskin, who wanted to introduce administrative fines in the rail sector. We then based ourselves on the sanctions that apply at De Lijn, as well as on the municipal administrative sanctions that have proved their usefulness in Flanders for several years. Apart from these administrative sanctions in itself, that exercise also showed that it would be useful to thoroughly review the entire law on the police of the railways, as the basic text of this still applicable law dates back to 1891, an era in which both rail and law enforcement looked very different than today. That is why we have waited for the initiative of the Minister for Mobility, Mr Bellot, following the presentation of our own N-VA legislative proposal. He immediately promised to work on a broader modernisation of law enforcement in and around the stations and trains and to thoroughly update the law of 1891. The result is the present draft law. Administrative fines may be introduced for a selection of infringements in trains and stations. A distinction is made between three categories of crime, namely serious crimes which will continue to be prosecuted, crimes which can be prosecuted administratively and offences which can be punished in a mixed manner. The need remains to ensure a stronger enforcement of safety in and around the stations. That is the starting point of this draft law. During the discussion in committee, we learned that as many as 363 000 irregularities are detected every year. Of these, some 125 000 are heavy enough to bring them to justice, but only 4 000. The majority of the offenders are therefore at present free of charge. That creates a sense of impunity. The present system of administrative fines should solve this problem by acting quickly and effectively. We have discussed this draft extensively in the Infrastructure Committee. It was discussed in two readings, with the second reading even taking longer than the first reading. During these readings, we also adopted various amendments from different parties. For example, we have extended the period of time provided for by amendment. There was also an adjustment of the unbuilt distance to the tracks. In addition, the scope of the sanctions was amended by amendment. There was also an amendment for the installation of windmills along the railway lines. For all these reasons, my group will approve this draft law in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u5	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all, even if this is not quite the subject of the day, to congratulate the Minister on the start-up of the ER project which began yesterday. I'm particularly pleased with that, and he too, I know. Today we are about to vote for an important text on the railway police. The text, carried by our Minister of Mobility, François Bellot, aims to introduce the principle of administrative fines into the arsenal of sanctions for behaviour contrary to the obligations relating to the use of the train but also to the safety of the railway infrastructure. You must know, ladies and gentlemen, that, at present, the continuation of the irregularities which are covered by the project systematically involves a cumbersome, lengthy and costly procedure and I add that it is largely ineffective. As an example and as explained in the explanatory memorandum to this project, each year, after a first internal amicable phase, SNCB entrusts an average of 180 000 irregularities for amicable recovery to its external providers, which represents a cost of around 2 750 000 euros. It's obviously way too much. That is why the implementation of an administrative fine mechanism is fundamental. First, the fine responds directly to the offence and avoids the perpetrator's sense of impunity. Then we'll save unnecessary money. I imagine that no one in this House can consider that we can spend money unnecessarily. I'm not targeting anyone. This is particularly important in the context of SNCB and Infrabel for the economy of resources. Finally, the mechanism will allow, which I think is at least as important, to reduce the congestion of the prosecution and the police services. This bill is therefore timely in a context where our government must be a pragmatic and effective proposal force, as we have been for three and a half years. I will not go into the technical details of the various offences in question. I believe, however, that this bill will help to combat inappropriate behaviour within and close to trains. I would also point out that the use of administrative sanctions will be applied against intrusions into the roads, which cause too many delays. I therefore welcome this project, which has brought together a large majority in our committee. In short, my friends, the time will be shorter between mischief and punishment, which I believe is essential. Secondly, there will be no impunity. Impunity encourages new incivilities. His absence avoids subsequent incivilities. Thirdly, let us say it flatly: it will bring more money to repair the incivilities that have already been committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u6	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you are in his place and you invite him to kick off the reboot of the RER. As Mr Flahaux invites me to do, I join him in congratulating you on the resumption of work that has been stopped for far too many years because of the lack of investment in rail. Mr Flahaux also invited me to point out (and that is true) that we must not spend unnecessary money. And there, above our heads – Mr Miller, you see me coming – it is not an angel passing but something that ends with a problem, a fighter plane! I will stay there and see that even the minister smiles at it. But Mr Flahaux being a colleague of very good company, I did not want to leave him alone with his enthusiasm. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft on administrative fines in the rail sector can be summed up in one word: Too bad! It was a pity that the government had the opportunity to provide an effective and balanced response to impunity for dangerous or uncivil behaviour on railway stations, trains and tracks. Too bad, because the government had only to regain the balance that already exists for municipalities or regional transport. A balance between the rights of litigants and the need to enforce common rules of life in society. I had opened myself to you, minister, by telling you that the salt in the text was really appetizing but that there was something missing in relation to our minors and privacy. I opened my doors to you and, unfortunately, we were unable to convince you during the parliamentary proceedings. It is not for lack of amendments and proposals, together with my colleagues, Mr Geerts of the Sp.a. and Mrs Poncelet of the CDH. There you go! We did not have the necessary force of conviction. I will not go back to the unprecedented choice of allowing the recording agents to access the National Register. Both the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority (formerly the Commission for the Protection of Privacy) were moved by such an unprecedented broadness that raises questions in terms of privacy protection. On the other hand, let me go back to the fate of minors in the bill. This is a perfect illustration of the lack of balance to which I was referring. While the administrative sanctions of the municipalities and those of STIB, for example, require mediation for offences committed by minors, the government has chosen a solution counter-current of any pedagogical and educational logic. Colleagues, the minor will only be entitled to mediation after having committed five offences. This solution is so aberrant that we first believed in a shell in the impression of the project. We could have understood the opposite solution. Does a minor still have the right to mediation if he or she has not adapted his or her behaviour to the first five offences? The first five mediations? But why let him commit five offences without mediation? The reason is simple: it is financial. Mr Minister, you assume that systematically granting mediation to minors would indeed cost too much. The administrative fine is a delegation of power. It must be accepted with the utmost caution. It cannot be regarded as a mere formality to fill the boxes of SNCB and Infrabel. And when the Flemish Commissariat for the Rights of the Child takes the initiative to draft a critical opinion on a bill, it cannot be ignored. We don't know that. However, the majority did not take into account any of the comments made throughout the 12 pages of a detailed opinion. I am not going to repeat the debate that took place in committee. I will simply recall two principles. The Convention on the Rights of the Child requires that minors who engage in conduct contrary to the law are entitled to appropriate penalties for educational purposes. Secondly, the fine is not an educational measure for a minor. Nine times out of ten, the parents will pay. Together with my opposition colleagues, we have taken a constructive position in committee. Some 20 amendments were tabled at first and second reading. This is proof that we could have supported a text that respects the rights of all, while being beneficial for railway undertakings, for the safety of workers and users and for the punctuality of trains. But the government wants butter and butter money and forgets that great power implies great responsibility. It is for all these reasons that my group and I will abstain on a bill that deserved a better fate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft, we want to deal with infringements on and around the tracks with an administrative sanction. There are two clear main reasons why the bill is needed. Firstly, the current criminal proceedings are long, expensive and very cumbersome and often lead to impunity, which, of course, cannot be the intention. Secondly, both the railway companies and the car parks are putting a lot of money and effort into the procedures today, which lead to little effective action. Such infringements can have a major impact on safety and punctuality. Let me give you an example, the trailing. We have also discussed this in detail in committee. Travellers may think that walking across the tracks is no harm, but every year there are more than 800 reports of tracks, which on average causes more than six hours of delay a day. Moreover, last year seven trackers lost their lives and seven more were seriously injured by walking across the tracks. The impact on safety and punctuality is therefore very large. The example of rail tracks shows that infringements on and around the tracks need to be dealt with in a different, better way. The additional administrative route is therefore a good thing. The administrative handling of infringements should be addressed with due care and caution. Railway undertakings will be both courts and parties, which will require the necessary control and defence capabilities. This also explains the large number of opinions received by the Infrastructure Committee following this draft law. These are opinions from passenger associations, staff associations, the railway transport service and the Children's Rights Commission. My group believes that this draft law provides for a balanced settlement. The current list of violations of police regulations on the railways is being taken over. Some provisions are rather vague. Article 9 forbids, for example, 'to put on any show'. That seems to us to be too broad a description. However, the text should not define too specific situations in order to always be able to respond adequately, which is also the specific situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u8	Mr Yüksel, Mr Geerts wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u9	Mr Yüksel, I would like to comment on that last element of your speech. I fully agree with you that Article 9 is far too vaguely defined. But may I ask why you did not support our amendment to amend that article?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u10	I shall come to that in a moment, Mr Geerts. In committee, we discussed this very extensively, including with the Minister. We are concerned above all with a pragmatic way of working. For example, in the case of tickets, SNCB can pay EUR 75 after an amicable settlement. At that time, the ombud service can also play its role. The administrative penalty will only be seen if the traveller fails to comply with the friendly settlement. The Infrastructure Committee has also decided to increase the period of defence from 15 to 30 days. This must guarantee the traveller concerned that he can make a sound defence if he considers it necessary. Particular attention was also paid to the administrative penalty in the case of minors. According to our group, it is rightly imposed in that case. Fortunately, we were able to draw lessons from the regulation of the gas fines, which was used as an example in the drafting of the draft law. For minors, there is always the right to an oral defence; compulsory mediation is provided for and an appeal to the juvenile court is possible. I am confident that the railway companies will follow the minor offenders with due attention and reasonableness and that they will distinguish between carelessness, oblivion and deliberate fraud. Ladies and gentlemen, our group believes that today we are taking a step in the right direction to tackle the impunity of infringements on and around the tracks. We expect the Minister to monitor closely the application of the legislation so that excesses are avoided and the railway companies do not see the administrative fines as an additional source of income, but above all address them in order to increase safety on and around the tracks. Mr Minister, you can expect my group to follow that up. More secure and punctual trains must be the result of the design, which we will therefore approve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be slightly less lyrical than the first two speakers and try to keep it as businesslike as possible. The Minister had hoped that this bill could have been put to the vote much more quickly in Parliament but, as Mrs Inez De Coninck said earlier, the usefulness of the second reading was important because some technical and substantive aspects could be changed. I believe that we have had a good debate in committee and that we have done our duty by taking a critical look at the draft in the hope that our Parliamentary action can guide possible interpretations in a court of law. As I said in committee, I, along with my group, am in favour of administrative sanctions in this area. There can be absolutely no impunity, let there be no doubt about that. However, some municipalities apply rather severe administrative sanctions. I am thinking, for example, of the sanction for eating a sandwich on the steps of a church. My fear was that this would also be the case with SNCB. Hence the following fundamental concerns with regard to the administrative sanctions imposed on SNCB and Infrabel. Firstly, all legal remedies must be respected. The question is to what extent this principle is still in force in this legislation. I refer to the opinion of the Council of State which states that a number of articles are very vague. I have discussed the issue of nuisance in committee. What's bothering one and what's bothering the other? Mr Yüksel cited the example of the show. That is why we have included this in an amendment. I welcome the fact that it is being cited today, but it is a pity that the amendment was not adopted in committee. What one interprets as fun, interprets the other as annoying. This creates legal uncertainty in the margin of discretion of such legislation. Secondly, the right of defence and time limits. It's true that this was modified during the meeting. The defence proceedings were extended and I think this is a good thing. We must be careful with this legislation. The railway companies must not, on the one hand, be generous to themselves and, on the other hand, be very rigid for the customer. This is a risk from the current legislation. Thirdly, the Minister said during the discussion that the substantive comments and penalties of acts are not really new, because the transport agreement already states that a number of modalities must be met when buying a ticket. After the second reading and the various discussions, I insist that there is still uncertainty today about ticket C170. Often people do not know why they were fined or restrained. There is a fear that these administrative sanctions will not remove this ambiguity. Fourthly, proportionality. A fundamental question to ask is whether the amounts of fines are proportionate to the infringements. We have discussed this. I think that the fines are too high, especially with regard to minors. When I read the text of the draft in preparation for my presentation, I wondered what was the starting point of its authors. Every traveler seems like a potential incivist to them. Indeed, it is assumed that all travellers may be able to commit an infringement. Let me give you the example of traveling without a valid ticket, the black-driving. Now, someone who forgets his subscription or his discount card or someone who took the wrong train; they are all put in the same pocket. Fifthly, we are missing the conciliation aspect and this is also reflected in the opinion of the ombudsmen. Perhaps in a hearing they should have expressed their reservations themselves in this draft law. A few years ago, under then CEO Descheemaecker, the ombudsdienst was completely out of play on conciliation. Melchior Wathelet then tried to defend the ombudsmen. The present document once again misses the opportunity to give mediation a central role in resolving disputes, especially with regard to young people. In the minutes of the ombudsmen's service there is also an example of the problems that arose with an autistic child of thirteen years old. You can argue that this is only one example, but I can say that the very strict legislation is also based on just a few examples. That brings me to the age criterion of fourteen years. I think that is a fundamental problem. For our amendment on this, I also hoped to get the support of the N-VA Group, because the N-VA had also put forward the age criterion, in particular 16 years, in its own legislative proposal. We asked for figures in committee. To our question about how many under-eighteen-year-olds it was, the Minister replied that it was about 36 432 minors in 2016, if I am not mistaken. A further distinction was made in the report: 2 784 cases were committed for 15-year-olds, 9 993 cases were committed for young people aged 14-16 and 23 655 cases were committed for young people aged 16-18. The fundamental question is how do we treat young people in our society? The amendment to raise that age to 16 is the only amendment we have tabled again today. The fundamental question is which glasses we look at young people in our society with. The current majority are looking with very strict glasses, so young people enjoy very little confidence. Finally, I would like to put what we are discussing here in a different perspective. In the explanatory statement and also in the speech of some colleagues, it was mentioned that there were 391 865 infringements of non-payment in 2016. No one will deny that this figure is hugely high. Allow me, however, to look at this from a different perspective. According to SNCB's annual report, there are 870 000 travellers per working day. That annual report says that there are 230 million journeys by travellers. Well, if the 391 865 infringements are placed next to 230 million movements, they amount to 0.0017 %. There was a cyclist once caught with zero, zero, zero. When one hears the figure of 391 865 infringements, it seems huge, but please look at it from a different perspective. We believe that certain elements of this draft did not have the perspective in mind. That is why, as in committee, we will abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u12	Mr President, Minister, bringing rail safety-related offences into the administrative sanctions panel is important in order to end a culture of impunity. It's good for train attendants. It's good for SNCB. It's good for the users. We therefore support this approach. We regret, however, that mediation is offered to minors who fraud on their ticket only at the fifth recidivism. That's not enough. One thus misses the opportunity to carry out educational and preventive work in the face of warning signs of delinquency. Mediation must be proposed from the first offence. It is necessary to avoid the miners settling in drifts. We continue to think that waiting for the sixth offence is too late, habits are taken. It is clear that these mediations represent a significant work for SNCB, and this has been discussed in committee. Of course, we welcome this work. There are more than 30,000 findings concerning minors between the ages of 14 and 18. The SNCB estimates that 32 full-time equivalents are required to process all of these files. However, the cost of juvenile mediation would remain low in the face of the revenues generated by these more than 350,000 non-payment offences. These offences are committed by adults. SNCB can therefore bear this burden and societal responsibility. SNCB would play a truly educational role and would contribute more to the improvement of society by rectifying the problematic situations of these minors from the first offence. That is why we are resubmitting the amendment that we tabled in committee. I thank my colleague, Laurent Devin, for co-signing it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us understand that we are obviously interested in this text, but we really regret that the offer of mediation for minors is limited. We will therefore abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I am indeed in favour of the introduction of administrative fines for violators, unsettlers. However, I think it would be useful to look at the safety of the comptrollers as well. They are often subjected to verbal violence, when it is not physical violence, as a result of positive control. When I speak of "control agents," I speak of train attendants as agents of special control brigades. Train attendants are usually alone, which sometimes places them in an unmanageable situation. The officers of the control brigade are usually two, but they carry out checks in isolation in view of the demand for profitability. Minister, their safety is paramount and I am sure you agree with me. I am aware that the system of administrative fines can act as a deterrent on the preventive side. But when the principle is applied and known to all, it could lead to an increase in violence. In view of the amendments tabled by my colleagues, I note that there is a tendency to defend offenders, among other minors. I, minister, prefer to focus on the safety of comptrollers. For these reasons, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a very interesting debate in committee, which focused on the rights of defence for minors, I would like to recall all the arrangements that have been put in place, particularly for minors. We were very attentive to this situation. First of all, each finding is automatically sent, for young people over the age of 14, to the King's prosecutor for judicial review of the proceedings. Then, the minor can always present his defence orally. In other cases, it's in writing. The Bar Association can intervene to appoint a lawyer who, together with the parents, can assist the minor with the sanctioning officer. The barrister or legal aid office appoints the lawyer. It should be noted that the sanctioning officer is still obliged to propose an offer of mediation, except for the non-payment of tickets, where it is from the fifth infringement within twelve months. For all other facts, mediation is proposed from the first offence. A whole series of beacons have been set in favour of minors, and rightly so. It is almost a copy-paste of the device for offences and municipal administrative fines. As far as data protection is concerned, we talked about it. It should be noted that the list is restricted and closed and does not apply to all monitoring agents. It is a very closed list that has been validated by the Privacy Commission. These five officers will have access to a number of data. It should also be borne in mind that the officers who are already making observations will be the same ones who will continue to make the observations tomorrow, i.e. the attendants, the agents of Securail and, of course, the police, especially the railway police. Amendments were tabled in committee. The time limit, which had been filed by two opposition parties, I carried it and defended it with you so that it could be accepted. We have increased the time limit from 15 to 30 days. A second important amendment has been tabled: that of the distances of the constructions between the tracks and in particular the wind turbines. As a result of technical and informational discussions, we have incorporated these amendments into the bill. Two colleagues raised the issue of violence against SNCB officers. First of all, there are, of course, observations, but I would point out that for a number of facts, a copy of the findings is systematically sent to the King's prosecutor who has 60 days to deal with the case. I believe that any action taken against a public official, an attendant or others is inadmissible. I think the scheme is balanced. The one that is planned is always, of course, under the control of justice. The passage of the bill will be the starting point for a new way of making effective the enforcement of fines on facts already found. In the head of SNCB and Infrabel, this is an information campaign about the existence of this new process of collecting administrative fines, and I have invited them to do so. Thus, it will serve as a prevention against such acts. From now on, all those who commit acts and who, until now, had the impression that impunity reigned, will see this period end. Several representatives present here are communal representatives and they know how important this awareness-raising action is. I think prevention and awareness-raising should be done. It is of course necessary to ensure that the sanctions are applied, and to accompany them with the benchmarks set out in the bill, both for adults and, perhaps, for minors between the ages of 14 and 18. I look forward to the pragmatic implementation of this bill. I dare to count on the wisdom of the parliamentarians who will support this project so much expected by the two public companies who are eager to implement things quickly. This is not so much the sanctions, but first of all the preventive effects that they will bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u15	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. I think you're bringing some elements here for the future. I think you are well aware of the difficulties that the text presents. You are talking about prevention, you are calling for the wisdom of the Members of the House of Commons and you know how wise they are. They are on the ground and can bring their knowledge of the field. We agree. As for the comment, not on your part, minister, but on other colleagues, who may object to not paying a ticket to the violence that public officials may suffer, we must not oppose that. Who can rejoice in violence? Who can rejoice at the hatred, if not the people who make it the salt of their political action? My group is not, we will not oppose your text. You have not gone as far as you wish; we have been able to explain why. You answered us and I thank you. We will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u16	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u17	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2869/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2869/7) The draft law has 56 articles. The bill has 56 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u18	Art. 31 • 24 - David Geerts (2869/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u19	• 25 - Isabelle Poncelet cs (2869/8) • 26 - Isabelle Poncelet cs (2869/8) • 27 - Isabelle Poncelet cs (2869/8) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 28 - Isabelle Poncelet cs (2869/8) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u20	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u21	Mr President, I will refer to the written report. With my colleague, we agreed on this. I will, however, take the floor to express my position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law was discussed extensively in the Committee on Trade and Economic Law with hearings, a comprehensive general discussion and the article-by-article discussion. I will explain very briefly in support of the draft law before us, one of the key elements of the Code of Economic Law. It was clear from the design's "first stone laying" that the old commercial law with the concept of merchant would eventually go on the kicks. From now on, all economic players will be legally based on the same model. The draft law definitively abolishes the Commercial Code and introduces an extended concept of business into the Economic Law Code. The court of commerce will be transformed into an enterprise court. As a result, it has extended its competence to cover most of the disputes between companies, including those of the liberal professions, farmers and non-profit organisations. Once again, it has been shown that the organisation of hearings on important legislative changes such as this certainly serves its purpose, as input from various speakers resulted in a number of valuable amendments. By the way, there will be a submission later. For example, an amendment tabled by us will remove the unnecessary and barely respected legal obligation to place the company number on buildings. An infringement of that obligation can until today be sanctioned by a fine of up to EUR 30 000. It seemed to us a bridge too far that many new companies, which I have just listed, would have to comply with that absurd obligation. Moreover, the publicity about company numbers and addresses of registered offices or other branches of companies is already adequately regulated in the Crossroads Bank of Entrepreneurs. Finally, the draft law also lays down rules on how groups without legal personality can be represented in legal proceedings. There are indeed a lot of problems of application in legal practice, which we will briefly address in the article-by-article discussion through my fine colleague Wim Van der Donkt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u23	Mr President, I will be very brief because I am aware that virtually no one is following what is being said here. Nor do I want to repeat the content of the legislation, which is often used in the discussion of drafts. I shall confine myself to the most important provisions for my group. The introduction of the new concept of entrepreneur is also important for many non-profit organisations, which will undoubtedly be necessary for further discussion this evening. In any case, we must communicate fairly and openly with the non-profit organisations. It is difficult to deny that the legal text uses an innovative concept of entrepreneur. Nothing is easier than scaring the right-wing for new legislation. However, as Mrs Uyttersprot pointed out, the innovations that are now on the table do indeed improve and ensure greater legal certainty and simplification, including for non-profit organisations. This concludes the discussion on whether non-profit organisations engage in commercial activities, whether or not they are subject to the civil court or the court of commerce. Progress is being made in this area, as there will be legal certainty. People are frightened by pointing out that non-profit organisations can go bankrupt from now on. But maybe that's a good way to solve potential problems with non-profit organisations. After all, if a non-profit organisation gets into trouble today and therefore a debtor has to be appointed, it will end up in a civil procedure, which only complicates matters for the non-profit organisation. The application of the trade rules, which now apply to all companies, including non-profit organisations, makes everything more transparent and clearer and provides more legal certainty for those behind a non-profit organisation. These people must not be afraid of additional responsibilities, because they are not there. The new legislative text must be implemented and given every opportunity. I have no doubt that it is a good law, which the associations will also eventually see as a step forward in the story of responsibilities and of non-profit organisations that are in trouble. Finally, by extending the concept of entrepreneur, a larger number of cases will be brought before the company court. I have taken note of your announcement in committee, Minister, that you will ensure that the staffing frameworks at the new company courts are completed to the maximum. I think the former courts of commerce will be grateful to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to speak from my bench because I understand that the choice that was made tonight is to be concise. As chairman of the Committee on Trade and Economic Law, I welcome the contradictory but respectful, rich and very interesting debates on the explanatory statement of the draft before us, as well as on the people we have heard, which have enabled us to sharpen our opinion and all the questions that could still arise. Finally, the many debates have been very intense with my fellow Members, and I thank them for that. Mr President, the main objective of the project before us this evening, which I hope will be voted on, is to describe in a more coherent way the concept of a company and to solve some problems related to the concept of an existing company. The aim is a simplification exercise. Indeed, the concept of enterprise varies according to the legislation, because of the survival of the concepts of merchant and deed of trade that we inherit from the Napoleonic era. It is not transparent and creates legal uncertainty, for example to determine which court could be competent, in the event of a dispute, according to the qualifier given to that dispute. This reform, which was presented to us by the Minister of Justice, aims to put an end to these uncertainties by classifying all economic actors, in the broadest sense of the term, in the category of enterprise now defined as "any natural or legal person pursuing a sustainable economic purpose". Other colleagues will certainly be speaking on the subject. It is true that this new definition of "business" will also include non-profit associations. For the MR group, it is important to note that this bill was drafted in consultation with representatives of the voluntary sector. I would add that it has been the subject of a broad consensus. The project does not, in fact, have any limited impact on NSOs. Moreover, it does not affect their non-profit nature; it is very important to clarify this. The word "enterprise" in the legal sense will not have a specified market connotation. It covers all legal persons as well as a number of natural persons. As such, it should be borne in mind that the ASBLs are legal persons and, therefore, they are already obliged to keep accounts and publish their statutes, the list of directors and their annual accounts. We are part of a much broader reform. We had discussions on solvency, under the chairmanship of my colleague Clarinval. We are talking about the corporate court. Tomorrow, we will also discuss the reform of the Code of Societies, which will allow us to deepen all the discussions that we have had on the margins, but also, and in a significant way, at the time of the introduction of the current bill. Only two things will finally change for the ASBLs. Firstly, and we consider this to be an improvement for them, they will no longer file the publication forms for the Belgian Monitor with the Registry of the Commercial Court but with the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises (BCE). Registration in the ECB will be free of charge for non-profit associations and this change will only be effective when the ECB+ initiative (digitalised version of the ECB) is implemented. In other words, the formalisms of Internet publications can now be fulfilled. I believe that anyone who has experienced the filing of the current rebarbing forms will be pleased with this change that will facilitate the process for the NSAs. Secondly, they will report to the Commercial Court, which will be renamed the "Company Court", and they will no longer appeal to the Court of First Instance. ASBLs will gain on the exchange rate since they will have access to a court specialized in the law of legal persons whose effectiveness is recognized and do not suffer too many backlogs of judicial proceedings, which unfortunately is not the case in all judicial bodies in our country. Future corporate courts will now include consular judges who are lay judges who sit alongside judicial judges. They are people from the world of associations. This is important to us, and I thank the minister for his kindness. The NSAs will therefore have for the first time representatives among the judges in the cases that concern them. I come to the conclusion. As I have already said, we have had broad debates and a second reading, which has enabled us to rework in depth all the questions that arose. So I'm not going to get into the discussion again. For the MR Group, this reform is a step forward for all legal professionals, as well as business managers who will see more clearly in existing legislation; that goes without saying! We will have the opportunity to see this even clearer with the last part of the reform which will then relate to the reform of the Code of Societies. For the two reasons I have just mentioned, the MR Group and I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u25	Mr Terwingen, we have been attentive all afternoon, and it is certainly the intention to remain attentive. Colleagues, the design of these reforms is to define a new definition of the enterprise in a coherent way and to put an end to the problems associated with the existing concept of enterprise. The new general definition will use formal criteria instead of the current substantive criterion. This new general definition will serve as a basis for the jurisdiction of the company court, the certificate of business, insolvency law and the provisions relating to CBO and accounting obligations. Although I am not a lawyer, I will try, on the basis of the information obtained from the hearings and in committee, to assess the possible consequences on the ground. I'm going to go deeper into some of the parts. We start with the new definition of enterprise. Contrary to what was intended as the purpose of the new definition, the sector considers that the new definition will lead to confusion and uncertainty. The broad interpretation of the concept of enterprise could lead to different possible interpretations, which certainly does not promote the legal certainty of many companies. The Council of State has also made a number of critical comments on the new definition. Minister, despite all your good intentions, we conclude that it will not be easier for users and citizens in particular. Secondly, there is the registration in the FBO. A consequence of the new definition is the fact that many new companies will have to register in the FBO. This will automatically lead to additional administrative burdens for many associations. If they do not have the necessary expertise, they will be obliged to attract additional support, which automatically leads to costs. Small associations are the victims of this. With the introduction of the KBO+ in the near future, there may also be a conflict there. We are therefore in favour of avoiding duplication of effort. I also note that the administrative simplification that the government prides itself on does not seem to apply here. The third point is the company court. The creation of this new court raises a number of practical concerns. The judges in that court should be a healthy mix of professionals and judges with a touch on business, non-profit organisations and liberal professions. I'm sure that won't be easy. The Minister of Justice will also have to provide sufficient resources to meet the workload and to provide the additional staff involved in setting up the new court. I would also like to remind you that last week we already declared the company court competent for collective recovery, both for SMEs and consumers. That will certainly have to be followed up further. This brings me to my fourth point: the practical feasibility. The timetable set out is completely unrealistic for us. Many new companies need to put themselves in administrative order and the new court must also be operational. Additional staff and specialised judges will have to be appointed and/or trained. It is a utopian idea that this should be done within a period of six months, Minister. I decide. On the basis of the arguments I have put forward, we note that the proposed reform is failing its purpose. It will certainly not be simpler, let alone more transparent. Despite a number of justified comments from the field of work and fears of an undermanned company court, many new companies will be burdened with additional work, which will certainly lead to additional costs. Connect to that a period of six months to organize everything, and every healthy person knows that this is not feasible. We will therefore not approve the present draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u26	Mr President, to begin my speech, I would like to restate the text that we are analysing in a trajectory. We worked several months ago on a text that wanted to improve the insolvency and business continuity arrangements. We are now finalizing a text on business law and we will soon have a text on the Company Code. It is particularly disturbing to have to work on tracks that announce the next track without having the guarantee that the content of the following track will be consistent and achieve the announced objectives. Minister, as I told you in committee, I would have liked to have all the provisions in order to be able to work in a coherent and complete way, by checking the impact of the measures on each other. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u27	I know the MR thinks we're repeating each other. I will repeat, as everyone has done, and I will do it succinctly. Minister, you have submitted to us a strategic statement, a policy note for the duration of the legislature that announced the reforms that you are going to carry out. At the time, I asked you, among other things, about improving the legislative arrangements for cooperatives. You told me that there was no complaint and that this was not necessary. We then worked in the Commercial Law Commission on bills – one by Mrs Winckel and mine – creating SCOPs, participatory management companies based on the cooperative model. To make sure you hear the elements, we have organised hearings, as well as to make sure that you can integrate this dimension into the work you are about to begin. It was a way of anticipating the work that was going to be done. I also had the opportunity to read a book, written in particular by you and other lawyers specialized in business law and in the Code of Companies, in which a project to reform the Code of Companies was already being built, resulting from the reflections of academics and professors in this field. He was interesting. I think it was used as a guideline for your bills. It's not the meeting of all the actors. The meeting of economic actors, yes! The meeting of the cooperative actors came when the cooperatives began to say: "Your project does not take into account our realities and the model of society and economic development that we represent." The meeting with the actors of the association took place only too late. That is what we must admit in the course of the work. This is important because it affects the content of the various texts and is important for the experience, the perception and, finally, the concrete analyses of the texts. Mr. Terwingen is not afraid of anything. There are striking elements for the actors who are now working on a social project for the benefit of citizens, for the benefit of an economic activity that has meaning, which is not only intended to make profit but which creates a link. A project which, in the end, will facilitate the transition to a different way of working than that of the current economic system which is coming, we must recognize, at the end of the race. Minister, we had abstained on the business solvency and continuity bill. It is not that it is not good enough in the establishment of insolvency schemes and in the way of anticipating and improving the second chance and in the possibility for a bankrupt to benefit from the write-off of his debts and to resume his activity. All these are provisions that we have supported. But already in this bill – we have discussed it – it appeared that if the NSAs could – they could – from 1 May – benefit from these solvency provisions, that would be good, but we already felt that they would be considered as enterprises, as structures with economic activity, regardless of their purpose and social purpose. The business law, which we have discussed and are finalizing today, reflects these concerns. We had a lot of exchanges and you tried to reassure me by telling me that the object/voorwerp, the goal/doel will be well present in the registration of associations and in the statutes. However, you do not consider it important that certain forms of activity be identified from there. This societal purpose must not only be a characteristic found in the statutes, but must also be able to classify the activity of an association, of a society, of an entrepreneurial activity. The term "entrepreneurial" is not an insult and does not pose a problem to me. What bothers me is when we assimilate business, economic activity and some non-profit organizations that have economic activities, and we wish to characterize them only by these activities. In this case, they will not distribute more to their members. This is challenging because these people, who come together in the ASBL and mobilize financial resources to create cooperatives, companies with a social purpose, want to manage differently, create models of governance. They want participation, collaboration and meaning. This is what characterizes them, and that is why they will mobilize financial resources and the savings of citizens rather than depositing this money in banks that will make it available to companies that will speculate, or rather to keep that money safe without taking any risk for societal development. I do not understand that you have not agreed to divide your text so that these associations, this economy and those actors with societal or social activities which can be characterized by economic activities as means and not as a purpose pursued. This allowed readability. The right of association enshrined in our Constitution requires clarity. You say you want to remedy this by preparing a sheet of the articles. It is true that, for the moment, everything is scattered in a text "business law". If that is your intention, it would have been better to do so earlier, so that we can show it and people can find ourselves there. A law must be at the service of citizens. If they are to enjoy their right of association, they need clear, simple and understandable texts. Otherwise, this right is reserved to people who can read complex laws and identify what interests them. We are in a logic of cliquet: insolvency, business law and the Company Code will come. I've been organizing a conference lately. Your firm was partially involved. We have heard the actors of cooperatives, the voluntary sector, the social sector, these new forms of society called SCOPs, a model which says that an economic enterprise can be managed in a cooperative and participatory way, with therefore added value. All these actors came to say that the law and codes needed to be simplified. But they have also said that they are not being heard in their specificities and in the reasons for their activities, in their ability to develop an economy that creates a link. It is this link that is the strength of economic development. It is this link that makes it possible to improve the survival capacity of activities, businesses and associations. I would like to insist that this dimension be valued in the texts. This will not be the case in this company law. Your separate and non-profit text must be published as quickly as possible so that people know that you have elements about them and that you still want to make these texts understandable and accessible. I really hope that, in the Code of Societies, you will agree to integrate and value both the cooperative form, the form for social purposes and the modes of participatory and collaborative governance. I would like to draw attention to one last point. Sometimes I add one last point after the last! But this one will be the "der des der". It concerns the so-called "collaborative" economy. I intervened in committee to draw your attention, Minister, to the following. When we discuss the Code of Companies, it would be interesting to make a linguistic correction. A platform economy does not mean a collaborative economy. An approved platform economy does not mean a collaborative economy either. In the legislation used by this government, in the law of companies, but also in the tax measures and measures concerning social contributions, and in the project concerning casual workers, which is being finalized, there are always provisions for derogating from certain obligations for the collaborative economy, because it is considered to be an exchange of services between citizens who share the same objective. But that is not true! There are collaborative platforms that work this way. These are organized on a cooperative model; I come back to it. But an economy platform on the Uber model has nothing to do with a gathering of citizens who exchange services between them. Here, it is about the use of services by the Internet; it allows some to gather and make a profit through the mobilisation of network partners. In your texts, if you want to promote the real collaborative platform, you must include in the accreditation criteria a mode of governance. It must be based on the cooperative model. If you don't do this, we'll all be rolled into the flour by believing that we're participating in the development of an interactive collaborative economy, while in fact, we'll be participating in a speculative economy model that abuses the networking of social and economic partners and actors. Minister, I hope that you will take these remarks into account in the future text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u28	Minister, allow me to go up to the gallery and talk to you. During five committee meetings, I caused you some headaches and I would not want you to catch a torticolis because of me, since I am sitting behind you. I am going to talk to you about this project, which has occupied a great deal of our time in the Committee on Commercial and Economic Law and will put it in a context, focusing on the second part of your cocktail. What taste does it have? The first part was the insolvency law, adopted a few months ago. Tonight, we are discussing the draft law on the reform of the Business Code. Then we'll be introduced to something we don't know yet, since you're a secret specialist. You entrust the writing of your documents to specialized firms. Today, we have to decide on a part of...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u30	Mr. Minister, you've had experts...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u31	They're experts who work for nothing, Mr. de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u32	Like that, you would have told us. It's better that way. Experts are still working on these issues. Minister, in the course of the debate, you argued that this bill would simplify and standardize business law in order to reduce legal uncertainty. I can hear you, but I would like to make a first remark. So, about the world of associations – which I will talk about at length – but also about companies, I wonder about the added value of your text. Minister, allow me to take a few excerpts from the opinion of the Council of State, which challenges the legal value of your project. Thus, according to this body, "many questions remain about the bill. In particular, the complexity of interpretation does not disappear." It is still embarrassing that the interpretation of this text can be challenged. "Before that, we had to judge what was a sustainable economic activity. After the reform, it will be necessary to judge what a professional activity is on the basis of a criterion not specified in the law, but in the explanatory statement." It is the Council of State that says so. The definition is therefore in the explanatory statement and not in the text of the Act, namely that the activity must be sustainable. Furthermore, the explanatory memorandum states that the choice of the term "professional activity" is motivated by the idea that this will lead to less discussion and uncertainty. But he also said that new case law would have to be built on the new definition. We will therefore change a case law that focuses on the civil court, with civilian magistrates, to arrive at the business court. Where is legal certainty now? The Council of State also states that the concept of enterprise is less uniform than it currently is, which does not contribute to consistency or clarity of regulation. He added that the new definition of the enterprise was not such as to provide adequate legal certainty. These are the sentences quoted by the Council of State. And no matter what, minister, you continue with your project! In particular, and I always quote the letter from the Conseil d'Etat: "At the same time, the notion of professional activity is not defined and perpetuates the debates on the purpose of the enterprise. In particular, the definition under consideration will describe the enterprise as any natural person who carries on an independent professional activity. The concept of professional activity is not further defined in the preliminary draft, as the explanatory memorandum only states that the sustainability of the activity is inherent in a professional activity." So why keep the notion of an object for the self-employed? Why not consider an independent company? There is once again a zone of legal insecurity. The Council of State's remark was confirmed during the one-day hearings. UNIZO has raised the lack of a definition of professional activity, in particular - I repeat a theme by my colleague, on which I will return - of the impact on the collaborative economy. Minister, I have a few comments to make about the crystallisation of the Council of State on legal certainty, which leads us to fear for the soundness of your text. I have discussed with you at length, in committee, the concept of the ASBL and this reform, which is a problem for me, as well as for a number of associations. You include all the non-profit organizations in the definition of a business, while until now only the non-profit organizations that were engaged in sustainable economic activity have done so. Incorporating all CBHAs into the concept of enterprise, has no added value and is not now necessary. Why change something that works? If you don't mind, I'll take some more quotes. It should be noted that companies represent 130,000 associations in Belgium, of which 100,000 have no employees. NSOs account for only one third of employers. We will therefore impose constraints on a number of associations that they do not have and on two thirds that do not have problems. I recall, and this concerns us all, that these associations exercise the freedom of association provided for in the Constitution and through which civil society expresses itself in the country, including from a socio-political perspective. The associative world is a privileged place for creativity and freedom of association, so it must not be weakened. Minister, in my opinion, it seems to me that we are missing the objective. Because, very clearly, depending on what is going to happen and what is there today, the justified fear lies in the complexity of the system for two thirds of the NSOs. I don't make it up, a petition circulates with nearly 15,000 signatures. I didn't sign it, you can check it out. I believe that the proposed measure is disproportionate to the problem raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u33	Mr. President, I'd like to bounce back. Indeed, we have already had this discussion about this petition that you have not signed. That's a good sign. That is the sign that you have been attentive in committee and that you have understood what is being discussed in this bill. I would like to make it clear, in relation to all the petitions that are circulating and to all those people who are afraid and who may be misinformed or intentionally misinformed about the consequences of this bill – the minister may be able to shed more light on my point – that there is no need for the small or the large non-market-oriented ASBL to worry about the non-market concept, including in the reform of business law in this project. It is very important to say so. Obligations will remain, others will be changed, but there will also be the possibility for an ASBL who so wishes, to keep its legal structure but also, in a way more free to carry out activities within the framework of its social object. Information will be disseminated to the NSAs and should be reported. By not signing this petition, you have shown that you have understood this shade and I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u34	Mrs Jadin, I didn't sign it because I didn't want anyone to say I had a conflict of interest. I did it explicitly to stay out of it. On the project, I think they're right. We can deny things, but they're not 15,000 wrong. Admit that it is a matter of concern that 15,000 associations are positioning themselves in relation to this text, that I did not create and that I did not sign. It still deserves to raise a number of questions. Let me do it. The fear is that this project will complicate the lives of two thirds of the NSOs, especially the smallest. Let me give you a few examples. The commercial evidence regime increases the liability of NSOs who will have to react within a week to challenge erroneous invoices or scams, otherwise they will be considered accepted. I think it is illusory to believe that imposing the professionalisation of the non-market sector will be done without sacrificing part of its activity because volunteers present in the associative world will have to have multiple skills: computer science, accounting, taxation, law, etc. I think volunteers who work in associations have more interest in helping people with disabilities or students! The second difficulty is the break-up of the 1921 law into different codes. I don't think the little ASBLs are going to be there in these subjects. The 1921 law had 17,000 words and we will move to the Business Code books with 340,000 words. So we don't make their work easier! Minister, you have demonstrated, and I would point out, your intention to draft a number of documents to make life easier for them, but you have not included it in the text. There will be no official coordination. So there will just be a manual that we can doubt about the update and updates. I say this very clearly: we are going to complicate the lives of associations. I prefer that volunteers spend more time in the social object of the ASBL than in administrative procedures. We will probably discourage the world of associations by putting these formulas in place and undermining the social democracy that exists in all neighbourhoods and communes. Finally, Minister, the risk at the end of your three reforms is to create an amalgam between the associate and the economy. I remind you, Minister, that the association is the history of democracies and not of the economy! You put all the ASBLs in the same company bag. That's a shame, because they have nothing to do with it. I have therefore re-tabled here, Mr Minister, the amendment tabled in committee on the removal of all the legislation for the NSAs from the Business Code and placing it in another place. Either I'm wrong or others are wrong, but every day, when you read your text, you see a few surprises. It's not Mr. Terwingen who's going to contradict me. In committee, Madam President, how many technical repair amendments have we made! It's not a judgment, it's a finding. During the second reading, a whole series of things were changed that had gone into oblivion. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, two specific questions. I have been asked about the first point concerning the abrogation of commercial civil society. This is Article 3(4) of the Company Code. Existing companies in this form will have to change their statutes within six months of the entry into force of the law. This change in form implies an authentic act and therefore a change in the social object and form of the statutes. Six months for all changes of these companies! How will notarial studies support these many additional acts? It will, in my view, be impossible for these civil societies to go to the notary within six months of the establishment and implementation of the law. Minister, I have been asked about this. There's obviously a problem. That's why I'm asking you and I'm also looking at the team. This would have a cost, if confirmed in each other's remarks. Your reform will indeed cost a number of people. For this reason, it is not possible to amend these statutes of commercial civil companies in the context of a private procedure. Why impose this cost? Minister, I come to a second point. Last night, I sent you and my colleagues a text concerning the preservation of professional secrecy in insolvency proceedings. I have again tabled two reparation amendments. Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I now justify them in the sitting. It's technical, I agree. Book XX, "Insolvency of enterprises" of the Code of Economic Law, which will only enter into force in May 2018 and which is the subject of numerous restorative provisions in the draft law on the reform of business law, does not solve an important problem for the non-market sector that works in sensitive sectors, where professional secrecy must prevail – meaning hospitals, nursing homes, children's homes – and relating inter alia to personal data on patients, children, followed by litigants or other beneficiaries. The case of the liberal professions will also be settled by a royal decree which is expected to be published soon and which involves intervention by the bodies representing the liberal professions, in order to monitor and guarantee the rules of professional secrecy and the preservation of the clients or beneficiaries of the services of the liberal professions. On the other hand, for associations or foundations that would be in a similar case – by this I mean the hospital sector, the rest homes, the judge's children's homes, the centres of assistance for people suffering from addiction, etc. – nothing seems to be planned to guarantee the aspects of professional secrecy or monitoring the rights of beneficiaries. However, these aspects do not seem to be dealt with in book XX, at the level of benefits – obligations of a curator or provisional administrator. In the context of Book XX, respect for professional secrecy must be guaranteed, not only at the level of natural persons, who hold professional secrecy, but also, above all, at the level of the associations and foundations of the institutions which employ such persons as employees or providers. These institutions are, in fact, custodians of professional secrets and, in the course of bankruptcy and judicial reorganization, the information and documents covered by professional secrecy should not be disclosed or improperly stored. It is therefore necessary to provide for a procedure which monitors and ensures compliance with the rules of professional secrecy in this context. There is a second technical amendment in which the logistics department – we are talking about article XX.17 of the Code, which states that in addition to advising the manager on the appropriate method, "the justification is to adequately safeguard the professional secrecy of the professionals involved in insolvency proceedings. The data protection officer shall also ensure the professional secrecy of health officers, pharmacists, midwives and any other person who has been entrusted with secrets by state or profession, as provided for in article 458 of the Criminal Code." Here are two technical amendments that reveal a difficulty. To conclude, a few reflections. Minister, you're saying you're going to simplify. We're going to complicate where you wanted to simplify. I think we're going to increase legal uncertainty where you want to reduce it. I'm not saying it, it's the Council of State. You're making the lives of the little ASBLs who only work with volunteers and who don't have an economically sustainable goal difficult. Finally, there is a risk of creating an amalgam between the associate and the economy, and this is something that the associative world did not want. Minister, the community is wondering about your project. I note that, although we have had hearings with representatives of the voluntary sector, the project is not a result of consultation with the latter. There were no general states, no consultations. Minister, you have presented this text to the University of Leuven, but there has been no debate with you. The world of associations on the ground fears this fragility. He's not reassured. Nor is he reassured by what the Constitution says about freedom of association. Indeed, we will weaken associations and organize complexity. Personally, I prefer the liveliness of volunteers and the associative world present in neighbourhoods, streets and communes, to those who need to seek administrative assistance. There is a risk of discouraging small associations. Let's stay lucid! What is happening presents the risk of a return, on the ground, to the de facto association, and will therefore result in a loss of protection. That was not to happen. This text, Minister, touches on the very foundations of associative life under the 1921 Act. This reform was designed by experts, a committee of university professors, although brilliant, but perhaps disconnected from certain realities and, in particular, from the world of associations. In our view, by supporting this complex bill, the government risks curbing associative activity, which is the social fabric of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u35	Mr President, following on from the presentation by my charming colleague, Mr Goede Uyttersprot, I will make some technical comments, which will, however, be without prejudice to the fact that we will support this fine draft law, in substance. I refer to Article 13 of the draft, which adds a new paragraph 2 to Article 703 of the Civil Code. The new paragraph lays down rules on how groups without legal personality can be identified and represented in legal proceedings. We have a number of questions from our group which have been raised after the committee meetings by the different interpretation of the explanatory statement and the precise drafting of the new provisions, in particular its second paragraph. Mr Secretary, I have put these questions together in four items. First, can you confirm that the new Article 703, Paragraph 2, 2nd, of the Code of Justice must be read and interpreted in such a way that it solves only the problem of the power of representation to act in the courts of the general agents of groups without legal personality registered in the CJU? Secondly, do you therefore confirm that the new provision does not create any new rights of action for groups without legal personality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u37	Thirdly, do you confirm that the new Article 703, Paragraph 2, 2nd, of the Civil Code does not wish to create a legal basis to grant to groups without legal personality registered in the CJU the right to act as plaintiff or defendant in disputes relating to the joint rights and obligations of their members? Finally, the new Article 703, Paragraph 2, 2nd, of the Civil Code does not affect the admissibility requirement of legal personality applicable when bringing actions. I refer in this respect to Articles 17 and 18 of the current Code of Justice. Will this, in other words, also apply in the new law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u38	Mr President, in the Committee on Trade and Economic Law, I have discussed the draft with Members for a very long time. I have answered most of the questions that are asked here before. However, I would like to point out, Mrs Gerkens, that as far as the triad "insolvency law-business law-corporate and association law" – I am also speaking to Mr de Lamotte – is concerned, it is not a question of secrecy. On 6 October 2015, in your commission, the experts came to explain in detail what would be the reform of company and association law. Although I understand some of your fears to the extent that the unknown is still a little ill-loved, the specialty of the association will be fully maintained. It will be better described in the new legislation than it is at present. The cooperative idea will be fully maintained and further described according to the European definitions of "cooperative society". As far as the social economy is concerned, social societies will remain intact and, at the same time, non-profit organisations will also be able to become "socially oriented". I would like to point out that we are, above all, improving things and not at all abrogating certain forms, and above all we want to describe their speciality better. Because economic activity or non-economic activity have always been very vague criteria, which do not serve much. I have repeatedly explained in committee that the NSOs with "economic activity" – of which, although Europe knows, I do not know exactly what it is – are fully subject to competition law and market practice law. So we don't really complicate things. On many occasions, I have repeated that the complication, for the volunteers of which Mr de Lamotte so well speaks, is accounting. Accounting legislation has long been in place for non-profit organisations, both small and large. And for once, you will still allow me an endade, Monsieur de Lamotte: the professional entrepreneurs you are talking about are also the painters who leave school at the age of 18 and start an independent business. They must know all the rules of the world. And volunteers of our age, younger or older, couldn't keep an account? Moreover, the legislator has already prescribed it for a long time. It's not new. I really wonder why you say that this is a complexity when it is a simplification. I'm afraid you'll never accept the word "business" for some volunteers. But I'm sure volunteers will, after a while, recognize themselves better in the new system than in the old one. It is true that, in the long term, the company courts will have to receive additional support if it appears that their workload in the field of litiges would increase significantly by extending their competence to farmers, the professions and associations. In any case, consular judges will be designated who are recruited from those centres. As regards professional secrecy, Mr de Lamotte, the first amendment concerns Article 215, former Article 181. Articles 458 and 459 regulate professional secrecy, applicable to both natural and legal persons. These criminal provisions are of general application. For example, the lawyer is not mentioned, while everyone understands that he or she is completely subject to professional secrecy. In my view, the public policy nature of this provision makes it superfluous to clarify the provision in insolvency law. Your second amendment seems to refer not to Article XX.14 of the Code, but to Article XX.18. In the latter, we have already provided for the King to determine, after the advice of the Privacy Commission, the more specific rules of access to the register, taking into account the particular nature of certain data which must be protected on the basis of professional secrecy or business secrecy. This royal order was already issued on 23 March 2017. It regulates the operation of the Central Register of Solvency (Moniteur belge du 27 mars 2017). We give the same answer in relation to the superfluous nature of the clarification of professional secrecy for insolvency law. As far as your question concerning commercial civil companies is concerned, it is obvious that these commercial civil companies, starting from the entry into force of this law, will be simple companies which, for example, have the form of a SPRL or a public limited company. It is quite superfluous to amend the statutes to do this, because in fact it is done in some way as a matter of right. I remember that we have already experienced this with the law of 21 February 1985. Under section 100, accounting firms that were previously commercial companies became commercial civil companies by law. No one at that time wished to amend his statutes. This can be done on the occasion of the next coordination of the statutes by notary when another amendment of the statutes is required. I come to Mr Van der Donkt's questions concerning groups without legal personality. It is not the intention of this draft law to deviate in any way from the general rule of law governing the admissibility of the personality and the personal interest. The organisation without legal personality can only sue for its personal rights or be sued for its personal obligations. This is generally defined as the collective rights and obligations of the members of the group. It can therefore be excluded, subject to special legal provisions, that any collective interest could be pursued by a group without legal personality. This requires a specific legal provision. It is also excluded that a group without legal personality could act for the personal interest of one of its members. This also requires a specific legal provision. Such legal provisions exist, but this is not a case of such a legal provision. This is only about the possibility of legal proceedings for the personal interest of the group without legal personality, if a representative's power of representation has been made possible by the KBO, so that the agent can act as a formal party to proceedings. As far as your second, third and fourth questions are concerned, I answered them in my speech just now. We do not change the existing common law. Only the possibility is created to designate an agent in the KBO as a formal trial party. Those were some of the answers, Mr President, which I wished to give to the questions I was asked. I thank you and in particular the members of the committee, and its chairman, for their excellent cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u39	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u40	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2828/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2828/8) The draft law has 260 articles. The bill has 260 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u41	• 84 - Ahmed Laaouej (2828-9)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u42	• 81 - Michel de Lamotte (2828/9) Art. 215 • 82 - Michel de Lamotte (2828/9) Art. 217/1(n) • 83 - Michel de Lamotte (2828/9) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u43	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u44	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Muriel Gerkens, Stefaan Van Hecke, Marcel Cheron. Ms.Fonck asked to dissociate proposals Nos. 116 and 928 from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u45	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Ben Hamou and Mr Demon, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question has just arisen as to whether you are still paying attention, but I will not concern you for very long. The aim of this draft is to make the organisation of elections more efficient. Indeed, our state structure and our membership of the European Union sometimes give us the impression that our country is constantly in election mode. Every six years municipal and county elections are held, every four years federal elections and every five years community and regional elections and European elections. 2014 was a special year, the mother of all elections, but it was also decided to make some elections coincide. The 2014 elections were also a test case. In the draft law before us, the government has taken several comments and opinions from the services to heart. This results in some clarifications, simplifications and updates. In this way there are many technical adjustments to align the electoral calendars and amendments were needed to various laws, such as the electoral law, the law regulating the way in which the Brussels-Capital Parliament and the Flemish Parliament are elected, the 1989 law concerning the election of the European Parliament, the 1990 law regulating the way in which the Parliament of the German-speaking Community is elected and the ordinary law of 1993 supplementing the federal state structure. There was also a need for adjustments as a result of the earlier adoption of the law on compatriots residing outside the EU and as a result of the privacy legislation, which means that candidates no longer need to mention their profession and place of residence. It is also positive that electoral laws are aligned with the digital society. For example, the electronic voting programme, which was already possible in several cities and municipalities, but was confronted with practical problems by the different computer programs, is being unified. Instead of several programmes, there is now only one software selection programme, which is made available free of charge by the Minister. This can only increase transparency, correctness and uniformity. It also lays down the procedures for the electronic submission of candidate lists, the electronic transmission of CVs and the necessary solutions and back-up in the event of disturbances on the day of the elections. We are also satisfied with the adjustments to monitor electronic voting in order to prevent irregularities. There are also many practical changes which make it possible for everyone to exercise their democratic rights. Let us think about the mentoring of disabled people or the use of the audio module for the blind and partially sighted, which should make it easier for them to vote. In short, it is a technically complex dossier, but it is necessary to align all existing legislation for equal elections. This will be an enormous improvement for the many staff in the field, such as peace judges, municipal staff and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us has the merit of adapting electoral legislation to the sixth reform of the state and to the realities and needs encountered on the ground. With this in mind, the CDH has taken a good look at the series of technical amendments to electoral legislation relating to the organisation of electoral operations. The electoral calendar for the organisation of elections to the House of Representatives and Parliaments of the Communities and Regions will now coincide with the timetable for the organisation of the election of the European Parliament in order to provide the actors of the electoral process with easier time management during simultaneous elections. This is a good thing. However, the cdH group regrets, as our honourable group leader, Catherine Fonck, was able to express it in committee, that the bill was not more ambitious. This amendment of electoral legislation should have been used to discuss the bills tabled by the CDH, which include the deletion of the lists of alternates and the devolutive effect of the lead box. Another important point in our view is the government's political decision to refuse the full pull on the lists of electors. However, this is the best solution to ensure the best possible representation of women in politics. In addition, the requirement of male/female rotation on the lists would simplify discussions on the preparation of the lists of electors. For this reason, Mrs Catherine Fonck will resubmit three amendments in order to generalize the principle of the draw for the elections of the House of Representatives, the European Parliament and the Parliament of the German-speaking Community. On this subject, I call on our colleagues in the MR to be consistent with the similar provisions adopted in the Walloon Region. Having said that, in view of the forthcoming elections, it is clear that we must move forward. That is why our group will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u48	Dear colleague, thank you very much. It is so rare that the CDH supports German speakers. A mischievous mind would see something incredible, but I dare not believe that is the case. Nevertheless, the proposals have been examined and an opinion has been delivered on the German-speaking side, which does not wish to have discussions at its scale. Moreover, they have already taken place. Parliament has decided, sovereignly, not to use this pull-out. This item will have to be put back on the agenda, including in my Region. This is not the case this time. That is why, in full consistency and loyalty with what has been undertaken in the German-speaking Community, I will follow the opinion given. The President : Does anyone else want to speak? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u49	The draft law was split by the committee pursuant to Rule 72 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The bill was split by the commission pursuant to rule 72.2, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2958/4 (matters referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2958/4) We turn to the articles of Bill No. 2958/4 (matter referred to in article 74 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2958/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u50	* * * * * * * Amendments tabled:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u51	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u52	Sustained: the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u53	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 78.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u54	****** We shall begin the discussion of the articles of the Bill No. 2958/5 (matters referred to in Article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2958/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2958/5 (matter referred to in article 78 of the Constitution). The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2958/5) The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law amending several amendments relating to elections (II). The title has been amended by the Commission in "Bill to amend various electoral matters (II)". The draft law has 68 articles. The bill has 68 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u55	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the package will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u56	Sustained: the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u57	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 68.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u58	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u59	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u60	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u61	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u62	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2957/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2957/3) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u63	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u64	Without report Not related A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to rule 116, the bill is subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u65	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u66	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2959/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2959/1) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u68	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Christian Brotcorne, Benoît Dispa.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u70	Mr President, I refer to the written report. I would point out that this was a recommendation of the Federal Ombudsman, who was heard in the Finance Committee. My colleague Dispa proposed it, the committee adopted it for the first time and, following the remarks made by the Finance Office, we returned once again to committee to improve the draft which was finally adopted unanimously by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u71	Colleagues, it does not happen so often that a bill tabled by members of the opposition comes to plenary with a good chance of being adopted, which deserves to go up to the rostrum. My excellent colleague, Mr Christian Brotcorne, claims to be customary because of this, but this is still relatively exceptional. My belief is that the proposal before you is a good proposal. Indeed, its main merit lies in the fact that it introduces flexibility where the functioning of the FPS Finances was quite rigid, it must be acknowledged. When a director had made a decision on a dispute, it was considered irreversible – that was the position of the tax administration – except to bring an action before the court, which exposed the debtor to significant additional costs and, above all, to unequal treatment, since in other matters the authorities had the opportunity to rectify or even withdraw their own decisions. It was this irrevocable nature of the decision that we felt needed to be amended. As the rapporteur has explained, it was on the basis of a proposal from the Federal Ombudsman that this conclusion was imposed on us. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the teams of the Federal Ombudsman, who regularly make good recommendations to us. It does not seem to me uninteresting to follow up on their comments. Here, the Ombudsman will have been patient. Indeed, it was in a 2007 report that he suggested amending article 375 of the IRC. Mr President, it took the Finance Committee ten years to organise a hearing of the Ombudsman. In the course of the debate, the whole committee – with the support of Mr Piedboeuf – felt that the proposal put forward in its time by Mr Brotcorne and co-signed by me finally deserved to be taken into account. It provided the reply raised ten years ago by the Federal Ombudsman. So I want to thank the majority. I would also like, Mr. Minister, to commend the relative goodwill of your administration because, at first, it was not quite enthusiastic; it had even raised objections. The second reading allowed us to take account of the amendments drawn up in consultation with your administration. I would also like to thank you for this because, thanks to the procedural arrangements now included in the text, this proposal can now be unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u72	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u73	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (201/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2001/7) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to put some time on the agenda, because everyone has to be there when we deal with this last item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u75	The next item is the debate on the Special Committee's report on the application of Article 11 of the Act of 27 November 2013. The next item is the report of the special committee established for the implementation of article 11 of the Act of 27 November 2013. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 8 March 2018, the plenary session shall decide on the proposal of the special committee in public session and by secret ballot; after the rapporteur's report, each recognised and non-recognised political group shall have two minutes' speaking time; interruptions shall not be allowed. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 8 March 2018, the plenary meeting will be held during a public meeting and by secret ballot on the proposal of the special committee; after the intervention of the rapporteur(s), each recognized and unrecognized group will have a speaking time of two minutes; no interruption will be allowed. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 March 2018, the rapporteurs, Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Mr André Frédéric referred to the written report. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 March 2018, the rapporteurs, Ms Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and Mr André Frédéric, refer to the written report. Colleagues, we have received a letter from Mr Arnauts which I have distributed to you. I'll read it to you. "Mr President, the plenary session of the Chamber will meet this afternoon to discuss the proposal to withdraw from the donation granted to a member of the Royal Family, No. 3015/1. In my capacity as Counselor of His Royal Highness Prince Laurent of Belgium, who is the subject of this proposal, I would ask you to read the following text for the honorable members of the Chamber, after the Special Committee's report but before the start of the debates." For the record, ladies and gentlemen, the Dutch translation also comes from the lawyer. "Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and secretaries of state, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Commons, as you know, I was not invited to address your assembly when it will take into consideration today the proposal to retain a member of the Royal Family on 14 December 2017 (Council of Ministers). Therefore, I have no other choice, also in view of the extremely tight timetable that you have decided, than to limit myself to sending you this short message. For the second time, I will not be able to be defended before the institution competent to co-decide with a retention on staffing, pursuant to section 11 of the Act of 27 November 2013, Act respecting endowments and allowances granted to members of the Royal Family. And for the second time, the institution will decide on the basis of a note or report containing new facts and arguments, to which I am not allowed to bring a contradiction. Even though you think you can exempt yourself from this fundamental requirement of fair trial because legal proceedings would be open to me, I think I should draw your attention to the symbolic dimension of your decision which is unprecedented. That decision could cause me serious, difficult to repair. The government is asking you to punish me for a fact, but the lightness of this complaint does not escape anyone. Actually, my entire existence is the object of a process, and that process started a long time ago. It is being run continuously in the media, and probably also in your thoughts and those of some fellow citizens. A list of clumsiness, mistakes, mistakes, year after year longer, year after year more objectionable, because always a charge and never a charge. But I ask you the question: who among you would be able to withstand such a summary of his life, against such a final judgment? I did not wish for that range of procedures, I even tried to avoid them. I have proposed to accept a sanction, however unjust it might be, if the government accepted to clarify the application of a law which was written too quickly, which would allow for a arbitrariness in which the judges you are today are party. The refusal of this only real solution leaves me no choice: until the end, I must challenge the terrible precedent that would constitute such a sanction, as it would make me and my wife and children a permanent threat. Do I need to remind you that neither I nor my family enjoy social protection (health care, disability, pension) which, fortunately, are the basis of the existence of the other citizens in this country? Most do not know, many seem to forget: since my early childhood, my existence has been put at the service of my brother, my family, and the state. I was not able to work as I intended, nor to launch projects that would have allowed my independence. I even had to get permission to get married, and today I am still being charged for choosing a woman I love, without title or fortune. It is the price of a life, the price of my life, which is largely behind me today. Should I also remind you that three quarters of this allocation constitutes operating costs, subject to strict scrutiny by the Court of Auditors? This is not a favor, no matter what those who believe money can buy all the rights or allow them to demand a total bid. Of course, I'm not flawless. I am first of all aware that people who are far less broad than I am are going through an even harder fate. But I do not think that any other citizen of this country has been instrumentalized with such perseverance throughout his life and has seen his projects constantly thwarted by his family and by 'great negligence' by some political authorities, as the Court of Cassation recently confirmed. I would therefore like to emphasise that I have always been proud of the tasks entrusted to me, just like the projects I started or tried to start up. For example, I have devoted myself with passion and success to sustainable environmental management in the broad sense and animal protection, with the help of valuable personalities, which I thank for this, with special attention to the disadvantaged. Do you remember how some smiled at these initiatives, sometimes even the same ones who feel today that I am getting in the way, now that these matters have become burningly topical? I don't know if you can hear that message. But I must hope that you will not offend the idea of justice and that you will instead consider complementing, in a fair and respectful manner, the legislative work that you have left unfinished. Laurent de Belgique This concludes the quote and continues the lawyer: "Of course, this is recognised, subject to reservation and without prejudice, as regards the regularity of this procedure. Yours faithfully, Laurent Arnauts." The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Maingain, are you asking for the floor on the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u76	Mr President, we are indeed faced with a very special procedure. The government described it as a disciplinary procedure in its actions. It is sufficient to read the Prime Minister's introductory report to the Council of Ministers, where he clearly describes the disciplinary procedure. This is therefore the outcome of a disciplinary procedure. The disciplinary procedure will state the reasons for the decision to be taken. I would then like to know how you envisage the motivation that will have to accompany the House's decision after a secret ballot vote, since that was the procedural decision. I would like to know who will hold the pen for motivation. Will this statement of reasons be submitted to the House before it may be notified? In short, what is the control that we, members of a deliberative body in disciplinary proceedings, since this has been the qualification chosen by the government, will exercise over this motivation? Finally, how will we be associated with the motivation of the decision that will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u77	Mr Maingain, allow me to answer you in Dutch. The procedure we are now following is essentially about the ad hoc committee's report. The committee's report shall state the reasons for the decision. It is up to the plenary to approve that report, in other words to accept the reasons for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u78	Mr President, I regret to say that, but the procedure of the special committee does not bind the plenary assembly as a whole. The law of 2013 is clear: it is the House, and it alone, that can decide. The House, that is, the 150 members of the House, because the law did not provide for delegation to any other body. In other words, all the work done by the special committee has no legal significance for the whole of our House. In no case may this body, by its deliberations, be the basis for a statement of reasons for the decision to be taken at the end of the vote in plenary session. Therefore, the procedure of the special committee does not bind in any way, either by its motivation or by its mode of deliberation, the plenary sitting of the Chamber. It is an illegal act in my eyes, which therefore has no bearing. We are therefore entitled to submit reasons other than those of the members of the special committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u79	Mr Maingain, it is the procedure approved by the Chamber two or three weeks ago. This procedure is therefore laid down. In other words, we shall proceed to the general discussion and I shall give the floor to Mr Buysrogge for a two-minute speaking time, as agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President, for all your meetings. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last! 19 July 2017 is the date of Prince Laurent's most recent infringement of the dotation law. That time he was in uniform at the ninetieth anniversary celebration of the Chinese army, and this without the government's permission. In the past, the prince had given up his obligations a number of times and was always called upon by the government but he simply continued, as in January 2017, when, again without permission, he met with the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka. On this point, Prime Minister Michel was able to say that measures would follow in the event of a subsequent violation. Unfortunately, we did not have to wait too long for the next offense. Mr President, more than eight months after the most recent offence, Parliament can finally decide on the sanction. We have had to wait for it, because it took the government five months to reach an opinion and Parliament more than three months. There were too long delays in procedures. To those colleagues who were not members of the special committee, I can guarantee that the rights of the defence were respected. The prince's counsel was listened to for a long time and in that way we did more than what the law of dotation prescribes. Moreover, I can tell you that, as far as we are concerned, this is not a disciplinary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, in this two-minute period, I will conclude with the answer to three specific questions. The answer will always be negative. First of all, is the N-VA euphoric? No, but a penalty was necessary. Second, is the dotation law perfect? No, but our party has never been in favour of it either. Thirdly, is this vote an end? For the third time, no. There must be adjustments and refinements, so much has become clear in the meantime. Having taken note of today's letter, perhaps one should look further. The lawyer indicated that the prince is really burdened by the princely yoke and the many obligations. Perhaps Parliament should get to work and free him from this apparently too tight straitjacket. But let us vote first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an unusual situation. Therefore, we must be able to bring to a conclusion a procedure which has no equivalent and which, I imagine, will feed into the reflections and analyses of constitutionalist jurists. For the time being, we must take into account the work that has been set up by Parliament, which is itself seized of a file transmitted by the government with reference to a law that does not provide for specific provisions regarding the conduct of this procedure. For this reason, several choices were made on the basis of advice from a specialized law firm. We meet here to discuss it and, above all, to decide. Before, and before addressing the materiality of the facts – on which I will not extend for a very long time – we must note that, in the report that was forwarded to you, some Commissioners were able to note that the file was "badly managed by the government throughout the procedure". It is a fact that the PS group cannot hide or rule out: yes, the file has been very poorly managed by the government. That is what is contained in the report that has been submitted to you. Secondly, and again this is something very challenging, some Commissioners thought it necessary to indicate in the report that the dossier on the basis of which the Council of Ministers had pronounced itself seemed incomplete. In particular, it did not include an e-mail from Prince Laurent's lawyer, indicating that he was prepared to show openness, to accept a transaction, to conclude an agreement. This is obviously a troubling element. The issue remained open for some Commissioners, as mentioned in the report. For others, it didn't matter. And then, Mr. Chairman, it should also be noted that, for the materiality of the facts, a majority of commissioners may have considered that it was for Prince Laurent to seek permission from the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the present case. But he didn't. Hence the procedure we are familiar with today. Let us note, however, that it is up to the executive to bring better-prepared dossiers and not to plunge Parliament into a situation as difficult as we are now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the history of our country, as well as the institutional evolution, have gradually contributed to reducing the political influence of the King, who, since the Royal Question, no longer has direct power. Nevertheless, the monarchy continues to retain an important symbolic function: the monarch is the personification of the state and the unity of the country. It has been a parliamentary tradition since Leopold 1st to grant grants to certain members of the Royal Family. The idea was to allow these members to enjoy a certain degree of financial autonomy without having to integrate into the world of work. But contrary to the Civil List, which is enshrined in the Constitution, the endowments are not based on any legal obligation and constitute favours born from the historical tradition of our country. It was in 2001 that it was decided to grant a grant to Prince Laurent. Since then, I would like to point out that gradually the idea of a reform of the monarchy, and in particular of this system of non-transparent, uncontrolled and potentially extensible endowments to different beneficiaries, has come its way. And this reflection led, during the sixth reform of the State, to the modification of the endowments to the members of the Royal Family, which was translated by the Act of 27 November 2013. In the future, this law limits the allocation of funds to a limited number of people. However, a transitional provision has been made for the current King's brother and sister, allowing them to continue to receive their annual allocation under the terms of the 2013 Act. My goal is not to dwell on the history of our country, but a little historical-political reminder seemed necessary to me in order to situate exactly what our role is today, namely to apply this law of 2013. In other words, the House is asked to decide whether or not to grant Prince Laurent's request for a reduction in staffing as a result of a breach of obligations under the 2013 law issued by the government. To do so, it is up to the Chamber to examine whether the breach is established and, if so, to verify whether the sanction is justified. And to these two questions, the special committee answers mostly: "yes." Yes, Prince Laurent went well to the 90th anniversary of the Chinese Army at the invitation of the Ambassador and the Embassy of China, without prior permission from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and in particular in contravention of sections 17 and 18 of the 2013 Act. And yes, the 15% retention penalty for 2018 is justified by the importance of the facts, no more or less! We can criticize the 2013 law. It may be considered that the procedure followed by the government has been different, but that is not our task. Under the current procedure, we are not judges of the applicability of the law, nor are we judges of the procedure followed by the government. In conclusion of this report, the Special Committee proposes to follow the Government's proposal. My group and I will therefore agree with the committee's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a tradition, almost as old as our country, that the members of the royal family are granted donations; it is not a tradition to sanction, if necessary, a member of the royal family and to reduce its amount. The fact that the Chamber of Representatives has to decide on this is the result of recommendations made by a working party in the Senate ten years ago. These recommendations were adopted unanimously by the then institutional majority and transposed into legislation. Whether one is for or against the Royal House, no one can deny that much has changed. Thus, no longer will all the children of the Royal House receive a dotation, only the heir or heir. The amounts are partly taxed and expenditure is controlled by the Court of Auditors. Last but not least, there are deontological rules and obligations that the members of the royal family who receive a donation must abide by, and sanctions are possible. Ten years ago, a vote like today, regardless of the possible behaviour of the members of the royal family, would not have been possible. It's the first time, and hopefully the last time, this will happen. Contrary to what Prince Laurent claims in his letter, which he delivered to the members of the Chamber today, my attitude will not be influenced by the political wind or the media, nor by the process that some would like to make of him, but by the law on the deontological rules for the members of the royal family, by the facts in the file, which you have all been able to read, by the arguments à charge from the government and the arguments à charge from the prince's counsel. I hope that is true of many of you. If there are any people who can understand the prince's feelings, as expressed in his letter, then I still believe that when agreements are made, they must be respected, just as we ask our citizens to do. We ask adults and young people to respect the rules. I believe that this should also apply to the members of the royal family, who receive a donation and therefore receive tax resources. They too must fulfil their commitments. In my view, that is the only possible attitude in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, as regards the procedure resulting from the application of the 2013 law, I oppose the fact that what is before us today is regarded as a disciplinary procedure. The government can qualify it the way the government wants it to. The Chamber takes note of a dossier, and it is open to the Chamber, with the Chamber, to give this qualification to the plenary session of the Chamber, which the Chamber must give to it. In my view, this is not a sanction. It is a question of applying a law which provides for a provision for members of the royal family. In other words, we are talking about a deduction. I would like to underline that word on the dotation. Secondly, the members of the royal family are not obliged to apply for a donation. They have the freedom to apply for a donation. If they apply, there are obligations against the law created by the 2013 Act. Those duties are to ensure that a number of rules of conduct are respected. I note that Prince Laurent's sister does not have any problem with respect for the code of conduct, but has no problem whatsoever. She gets a dot and respects the code of conduct. I have not seen at any time, in connection with Princess Astrid, any discussion, contestation or polemic. I would just like to make that clear, to point out that the code of conduct, if it is to be respected, is sufficiently clear. Thirdly, regarding the writing of the prince, which we have received today, I would like to ask that the prince should not be too self-conscious. I repeat, he has the opportunity to choose. If he chooses to donate, he must respect the rules. If he doesn't want a dotation, he has the opportunity to give himself another interpretation of his life, which he doesn't do. It's one or the other. If he chooses to donate, it is the present sitting, the present plenum of the Chamber, which can decide on a deduction from the amount. Personally, I will vote 'yes' on the retention of the dotation. In order to fully respect the rules, I simply inform you that the members of my group, each of them, can vote in honour and conscience, and I think that is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the sixth state reform, three laws were adopted in the previous legislature to reform the regulation of the Royal House's donations. Since then, the law has established rules of conduct for the royal family. If one violates this code of conduct, one risks losing part of his or her donation. The code of conduct was drawn up on the suggestion of Prince Laurent after the Congorel in 2011. He then travelled to Congo despite the opposition of the government and met with both President Kabila and some Congolese ministers. Following that incident, the prince had undertaken to consult with our Foreign Minister in advance on his contacts abroad. In addition, he suggested in that letter himself that a violation of those agreements could have consequences for his donation. Those rules were registered in the law in 2013. It is those rules that Prince Laurent violated last summer with his presence in uniform and without the government's permission at the ninety-year anniversary of the establishment of the Chinese army. Neither the prince nor his lawyer denied the facts. The defence was only about the law and about the procedure followed by the government and the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I would like to say that the government has not always dealt with the dossier very precisely. I very much regret, for example, that in January the government already threw down a lower amount of money, even before the procedure here in Parliament. In substance, our group supports the government's proposal to withhold 15% of the amount. The violation of the rules of conduct laid down by law has been sufficiently proven for us. Parliament has no choice but to ensure that the sanction laid down in the law also applies effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as other colleagues have said, this is a very unique procedure which we are applying this evening and which has had several unprecedented elements in the history of Belgium. The attitude of the Écolo-Groen group and mine, in the special commission, was to proceed by reflecting only on the facts presented and, in this case, to answer the question whether Prince Laurent should have asked for permission from the government or not before going to a reception at the Chinese Embassy on July 19, 2017. To this question, our answer is very clear: yes, he should have actually asked the government for permission. The absence of an application puts him in default of the Royal Endowment Act, 2013. Having said that, it is important for us to stress the very light and inappropriate manner in which the government has handled this issue, on many occasions during the course of the proceedings. It is written black and white in the report, that this management has been "bad"; this is the qualifier used by some Members. I would like to mention two points which I believe are important in order to give an idea to all colleagues of this lightness in the management of the dossier, which we can only regret. First, many members of the government confirmed the sanction in public statements before the Prince or his counsel had been heard, which did not respect the rights of defence as advocated by the 2013 Act. Second, the reason for this is that in January of this year, the 15% allocation was already withdrawn from the Prince by the FPS Budget. We wanted to know on what basis and what order, without ever having received any response in this regard, even if a few days later, the situation was restored following a letter from the Prince's lawyer. Honestly, it is not serious to deal with such a case in this way. Having said that, we stick to the facts, that is, that the Prince should have asked the government for permission and that, in our opinion, the procedure and the rights of defence at the House and Special Commission level have been respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we will be voting by secret ballot. I'm saying "secret." I will, therefore, now abide by the direction that the House has given itself. I will not tell you how I voted in committee. I won't tell you how I'll vote in a moment. I will not tell you how my colleagues will vote. Besides, I don't know. I will not say on the radio, on television or in the newspapers whether I voted yes or no. Why? Simply because a secret is a secret, before, during and after! On the other hand, I would like to tell you very simply my certainty and my doubts on two issues: the offence charged and the proposed sanction. On the offence, one thing is certain: Laurent did not comply with section 18 of the 2013 law. He did not inform the Minister of Foreign Affairs of any contacts he may have with the Chinese Ambassador on 19 July 2017. One thing is less certain: the same Article 18 provides for an exception for representational activities. I ask this question: is attending a reception or cocktail in an embassy not a representational activity? Question. On punishment, one thing is certain: the law of 2013 establishes rules of good conduct. In the event of a breach of these rules, it provides for only one sanction: financial restraint. The amount has to be decided. We know the government's proposal: 15% on staffing. One thing is less certain. Is the proposed sanction proportionate to the offence? Is it appropriate when it relates to staffing in its processing, operating, personnel components? Mr President, I conclude. I'm not a prosecutor or a lawyer! I gave you my findings. The file before us is not empty. I also gave you my questions, real questions. Now, it is up to each of us to judge! Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to use words that may be a little solemn. It is to the urn, I was going to say the sacred urn, it is to the urn that will undifferentiatedly gather 150 ballots, it is to the urn, this eminent symbol of democracy, that it is now up to render its verdict!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, any reduction in royal donations supports the Flemish interest, including this very small one. Laurent's attorney has certainly made two cases very clear. First of all, the law of November 27, 2013 seems like nothing. As far as we are concerned, it should be abolished as soon as possible. Secondly, the government has made this whole disciplinary procedure an incredible mess. It is therefore very likely that the prince of chunks will be right in court. Just as for his non-profit organisation Kint, for which he will receive more than 500 million euros, on top of his generous donations, about five million euros in the meantime, which will simply go through. After all, this is a one-off deduction of a few percent. He still has more than the Prime Minister's wages after the withdrawal of these bumps. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in this great Laurentshow because this N-VA government does not want to intervene on the essence of the matter, because it fears a Community agenda. The essence is that a large majority in Flanders is right to believe that brothers and sisters of kings can work for a living themselves, as is the case in all other monarchies. Why don't you just get rid of those dots? Why do you not dare to debate a ceremonial function for the frost? Why do you maintain such an outdated undemocratic institution at all? Colleagues of the N-VA, you, the kind of Flemish nationalists who still sings the Flemish Lion on 11 July to ask for forgiveness for the noise nuisance in Laeken that same afternoon, I hope that the whole of this charade will have a therapeutic effect, because it would at least have had some use. Mr President, I should like to conclude by thinking that our current King Filip cannot think of better Flemish nationalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not holding a political debate on the relevance of the appropriations. We are not debating the monarchy and the Royal Family. We have a legal debate on the decision to impose a penalty under a law. It can be described in any way from a legal point of view, it is a sanction. Because of the procedure alone, we are bound by general principles of law which must aim at protecting the presumption of innocence, the impartiality and the regularity of the procedure at the end of which we must rule. I note that, on several aspects of the procedure, there have been serious breaches of these general principles of law, enshrined in the case law of both Belgium and the European Court of Human Rights. First of all, from the start of the procedure by press release, the Prime Minister announced that he was asking his advisors to investigate the precise content of the ceremony and that he wished to take a proportionate sanction, suggesting that a sanction was already announced. First breach of the presumption of innocence and impartiality which must lead all the bodies and institutions called upon to rule in the conduct of the proceedings. Secondly, the Prime Minister summoned the Prince on 4 September, on the basis of a letter listing facts prior to the Prince's presence at the Embassy - facts that obviously cannot be taken up in the course of our proceedings. But more seriously, at the hearing of the Prince's lawyer on 25 September, the Prime Minister's introductory statement referred to even more ancient facts. In the report to the Council of Ministers - the introductory note which will give rise to deliberation in December - these facts are mentioned and included in the introductory statement, whereas on the facts which were the subject of the Minister's introductory statement at the hearing of the lawyer, the lawyer was unable to assert his rights to the defence, since these facts were not known. I therefore note that there have been several shortcomings and, moreover, the minutes of the hearing of the lawyer were subsequently sent by the Prime Minister to the lawyer after deliberation by the Council of Ministers. I could continue to list very many breaches of the procedure, of the rights of the defence. I therefore consider that, as Mr Delperée has said, I reserve myself as to the way in which I should like to vote, but I would like to table, Mr President, a memorandum of justification of opinion to be annexed to the minutes of this sitting and to be part of the deliberations that we will take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this dossier the mistakes are piling up. When looking at the file, we found that the minutes of the hearing of Laurent's lawyer were not even signed in September 2017. So that's an invalid pv. The government as an investigative body has been biased. I refer, among other things, to the statements made by Secretary of State Francken at the door of the 16. "Laurent's filing a complaint with Unia. Break a pot, pay for it." That's prejudicing. The special committee's report states that the government has not communicated before drafting a proposal for sanctions. That is clearly contradicted by a piece of the file, namely a Belgian announcement dated 7 July 2017, in which Prime Minister Charles Michel announces a proportional sanction. This too is prejudicing. Moreover, this message once again states that the King agrees with this. It even states that the King does not intervene here, not as head of state, but as head of the family. What is the King's business in this procedure? Since when does the King make political acts as head of the family and without the co-signatory of a minister? The Crown has exposed itself here and this is therefore a flagrant violation of Article 88 of the Constitution. There is no doubt that the Chamber is not an impartial disciplinary body. Moreover, the deliberations we are holding now are illegal. Not the Members, but only the political groups. That's not a discussion of a disciplinary body, it's a legal farce. The fact that Members who have not taken part in the hearing will also vote here is contrary to the settled case law of the Council of State on the operation of disciplinary councils, as indicated in our motion. My group's position is clear. Instead of this charade, we better abolish the dotations of Laurent and Astrid, because they are not eligible for throne succession and should therefore not receive dotation. How we will vote, Mr Delpérée, was secret, but we do not agree with the procedure. On the other hand, the less Prince Laurent gets, the better. Best he doesn't get any more dotation. In any case, I think that with the further steps he is likely to take, he will be very successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u91	Mr President, first of all I must remind you that the PTB-GO! is republican and for the unity of the Belgian people. The PTB is against this feudal survival which is the monarchy, was it constitutional, because it is anti-democratic and based on privileges, among which the endowments to the Royal Family. It is because capitalism is also built on privileges that it accommodates this anachronism. (Rummers) You can applaud! Moreover, the monarchy does not express the unity of the Belgian people. The Royal Family is part of the establishment that organizes the exploitation and domination of the people by a minority. As for the proposal before us today, following a banal procedure, it aims at fairly insignificant discrepancies on the part of a member of the Royal Family. It would be an opportunity to open the debate on otherwise more serious packages perpetrated by members of this Royal Family, including those who occupied the throne. I am thinking, for example, of the actions of Leopold II in the Congo, of those of Leopold III during the Second World War, or of the role of Baudouin during the events that led to the assassination of Patrice Lumumba. The Prince himself says that he did not choose to be prince. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let us free him from this burden! Let us give him his freedom of speech, let us give freedom of speech to the citizen Laurent de Saxony-Cobourg-Gotha! Of course, he will have to accept the consequences and do without his staffing. Let us give him his freedom to work for a living, he and the other members of his family! The proposal submitted to the vote is intended to deprive the Prince of 15% of his allocation. Imagine! It will only have 262,000 euros left, or 21,800 euros per month! I think that this amount is a little higher than the average unemployment benefit, even as a head of the family, because, as you will recall, he is head of the family. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this proposal for a 15% sanction even if we consider that 85 % is still too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u92	Colleagues, we must deal with Prince Laurent's case, in terms of law, as if it were that of a simple citizen. His counsel, Mr. Arnauts, concluded the hearing by saying that the procedure was irreparably flawed, both in terms of substance and form. I do not wish here to dissect all the elements of the file. The report is sufficiently explicit. One of the elements highlighted by the Prince's lawyer is the notion of contact. This is very little developed in the 2013 law on endowments and therefore subject to interpretation. In the treatment of this procedure, various fundamental rights have been violated. Another notion developed by Mr. Arnauts in the pleading is the notion of what can have political significance. Nor is the law explicit and also an infringement of fundamental rights. In the case before us today, and beyond all the legal arguments that have been put forward, I think there is a need to reconcile the sanction that the government is proposing, namely, the amputation of the 15% allocation and the facts that are actually attributable to the Prince. This proposal for a sanction seems to me unjustified and at least disproportionate. Indeed, the only tangible element that the government could possibly blame the Prince for not warning him of this representation at the Chinese Embassy, a country with which we have concluded several trade agreements, I remind you. There were no political acts and there were no diplomatic consequences. The military interests were represented by a senior officer of the Belgian army. As it stands, I have the impression that this is more a settlement of accounts than a disciplinary measure. There is no doubt that the Prince will appeal this decision if it were to be upheld. The image of our country would once again be tarnished at the international level. For these reasons, Mr President, I will vote against the proposed sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u93	The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u94	We must proceed with the secret vote on the 15% retention proposal on the donation of ZKH prince Laurent. I refer to page 27 of document 3015/1. We must proceed to the secret ballot on the proposal to retain 15% on the allocation to SAR Prince Laurent. I refer to page 27 of document 3015/1. We must first proceed with the drawdown of one or two desks of voters who will be ordered to vote. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of tellers who will be responsible for counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided. No observation? (No) That will be the case. The ladies Yoleen Van Camp and Nawal Ben Hamou are referred to as voice recorders. Ms. Yoleen Van Camp and Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou are designated deputy returning officers. When calling his name, the member presents himself and receives his ballot and his presence is recorded. Upon the call of his or her name, the member shall appear and receive his or her ballot paper and his or her presence shall be noted. He fills in his unsigned ballot and folds it to keep his voice secret and puts the ballot in the ballot box. He fills out his unsigned ballot and folds it to cover his vote and deposits his ballot in the ballot box. When all Members have voted, the ballot box shall be opened and counting by the voters. When all the members have voted, the ballot box is opened and the counting is done by the deputy returning officers. I invite the voters to proceed to the call of names. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u95	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u96	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (2978/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (2978/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp, as deputy returning officers. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u97	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u98	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking female alternate member of the Executive Board of the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against discrimination and racism. The next item is the election for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking female alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination. By letter dated 21 January 2018, Ms Naima Charkaoui announced her resignation as a Dutch-speaking deputy member of the Board of Directors. By letter dated 21 January 2018, Ms.Naima Charkaoui announced her resignation as a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Board of Directors. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8 (6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 establishing an Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Discrimination and Racism, the Chamber of Representatives should appoint a new alternate member for the duration of the current term of office, which runs until 2 February 2021. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8(6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 on the establishment of an Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, the House of Representatives must appoint a new alternate member for the duration of the current term of office, i.e. until 2 February 2021. Since gender and language parity must be respected, the Chamber should appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate. Since gender and linguistic parity must be respected, the Chamber must appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate member. Ms Caroline Deiteren's candidacy was announced at the plenary session of 15 March 2018. Caroline Deiteren's candidacy was announced in plenary on March 15, 2018. Since there is only one candidate, Mrs Caroline Deiteren, under Rule 157 No. 6, of the Rules of Procedure, to be elected as a Dutch-speaking, female alternate member of the Executive Board of the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against discrimination and racism. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Ms Caroline Deiteren elected as a Dutch-speaking female alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u99	At the request of the proposers, I would like to propose the legislative proposal (Ladies Els Van Hoof and Nahima Lanjri) amending the law of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men as regards the prohibition of discrimination against paternity or co-motherhood, No. 2794/1, refer to the Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society, the bill (Ms Els Van Hoof and Nahima Lanjri) amending, with regard to the prohibition of discrimination in respect of paternity or comaternity, the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men, No. 2794/1. This bill was sent to the Justice Commission on 7 December 2017. This bill was referred to the Justice Committee on 7 December 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u100	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there is no objection, I consider them to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be sent to the committees responsible. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 March 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Vincent Van Peteghem and Jef Van den Bergh) amending the law of 24 June 2013 on municipal administrative sanctions in respect of the GAS fines for traffic infringements, No. 3018/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u101	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Els Van Hoof) on tackling gender-related cyber violence, No. 3020/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u102	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 March 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Vincent Van Peteghem and Jef Van den Bergh) amending the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative penalties for SAC fines for road traffic offences, No. 3018/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u103	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Els Van Hoof) on gender-based cyberviolence, No. 3020/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u104	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u105	Mr President, for Mrs Grosemans' bill, document No. 3009, ask for urgency. It is a legitimate concern that soldiers should not only be able to stand as candidates for municipal and provincial councils, but also for parliamentary elections. I am very pleased with the preliminary view of the N-VA Group on this matter. In November last year I tabled exactly the same text as an amendment to a draft on defence. At that time that was voted down by the entire group. So I am very pleased that the possibility has now been put into a legislative proposal and taken over. In order for the provision to be valid for the next elections, I would have liked to ask the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u106	We shall vote in favour and stand up on the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u107	These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Defence Committee of 20 March 2018. These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on March 20, 2018. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 253/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen; - a second motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Ahmed Laaouej; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens and Mr Peter Buysrogge, Mr Richard Miller, Mr Damien Thiéry, Mr Dirk Van Mechelen and Mr Veli Yüksel. Four motions were tabled (MOT No. 253/1): - a first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Alain Top et Dirk Van der Maelen; - a second motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Ahmed Laaouej; - a third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens and Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Dirk Van Mechelen et Veli Yüksel. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u108	Mr President, I would like to address my colleagues from the majority. Colleagues, this is the last chance you have. By refusing to approve the simple motion, you will be able to accept your responsibility as a Member of Parliament. We are paid by taxpayers. We are supposed to defend the interests of taxpayers. Here we stand for a dossier that has a cost of many billions. We've detected irregularities. We believe that the Chamber should take matters into its own hands and carry out an investigation. We believe that the current procedure should be brought to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to take on your responsibilities from the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u109	Mr President, I will also speak to colleagues of the majority. I trusted the government when it told us that it was necessary to replace the F-16s as quickly as possible, because they had done their time and were no longer good for service. Similarly, I believed it when he told us that there were no studies that showed that their use could be extended. In fact, we have been deceived: these studies have been hidden from us. In addition, we had also trusted him with regard to the existence of a procedure that was supposedly transparent and impartial. Then we learned that the Chief of Staff in person of the Minister of Defence was informed of a study that tended to show that a choice had been expressed in favour of the F-35, which was considered the only device that could be appropriate. So, we've been deceived about this procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I would ask you to suspend this procedure until there is full clarity on the documents and on the possibility of the replacement of aircraft and until a procedure is in place to ensure that the EUR 3.5 billion that will be spent on fighter aircraft is properly spent in order to acquire the aircraft that Belgium really needs. That is why I am tabling this motion for a recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u110	Mr President, in supporting what has just been said by my two colleagues, I would like to point out that the principle that drives the PS Group in this resolution and in all the debates that have taken place in recent days on the F-16s, but also on the drone market, is to allow the Defence to assure all of its tasks calmly today by and for the citizens of this country. Today, the documents that have been released in recent days demonstrate that there is reasonable doubt as to how, in substance and form, the F-16 market, as well as other defence contracts under the military programming law, has been passed. This resolution is aimed at the F-16 market, but I would like to point out that the Socialist Group's request consists of a flattening and a study of all the Defence dossiers because, as long as this reasonable doubt which has its place in the debate today is not removed, all the defence missions cannot be carried out in a serene manner in the interests of the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u111	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u112	Yes 77 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions for recommendation are overturned. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of recommendation lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u113	Mr President, I have a vote with Mr Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u115	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 21 March 2018. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 21 March 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 251/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 251/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every year around 9 000 foreign driving licences are switched to Belgian driving licences. There are three legal bases for this. This is done for EU nationals on the basis of a European directive. For a number of countries there are bilateral agreements on the basis of which this exchange takes place. Finally, there are also exchanges on the basis of a 1968 Convention, 50 years ago. That treaty dates back to the time when a driver's license was issued without an exam. Of course, there is no problem for the first category, but in this second and third category there are a number of countries in Africa where driving licences are obtained without training or even in a very dubious way. I don't have to draw a picture. If you do not have the skills to drive, but you do get a driving licence and exchange it here for a Belgian driving licence, you are a danger on the road. In the interests of road safety, I asked the Minister to review the bilateral agreements and the 1968 Convention for those dubious countries. He's got no ears for that. That is why I appeal to your common sense to think about road safety and to make a motion of recommendation in this direction to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u117	What's wrong with Mrs. No, it's not the driver's license, it's the word "foreigner"!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u118	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 105 Yes No. [[21]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u119	This is the result of the secret vote on the proposal to withhold the donation granted to a member of the Royal Family. (3015/1) This is the result of the vote on the proposed retention of a member of the Royal Family. (3015/1) Aantal stemmen 126 Number of voters Blank and invalid votes [[10]] White and invalid bulletins Valid votes 116 Votes valables Perfect majority 59 Absolute majority 93 members approved the special committee's proposal. 93 members approved the proposal of the Special Committee. 23 members did not approve the special committee's proposal. 23 members did not agree with the Special Committee's proposal. The Court then adopted the proposal put forward by the special committee. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal made by the Special Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u120	Vote on Amendment No 24 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 3. (2718/12) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 3. (2718/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 36 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 3. (2718/12) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 3. (2718/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[35]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck on Article 3. (2718/12) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (2718/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 4. (2718/12) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 4. (2718/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u121	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck on Article 6. (2718/12) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck to Article 6. (2718/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u122	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u123	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 76 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2718/13) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2718/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u124	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2952/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2952/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u125	Vote on Amendment No 24 by David Geerts on Article 31. (2869/8) Vote on Amendment No 24 by David Geerts to Article 31. (2869/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 31 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 31 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Isabelle Poncelet cs on article 43. (2869/8) Vote on the amen by Isabelle Poncelet cs in Article 43. (2869/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u126	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Isabelle Poncelet cs on article 43. (2869/8) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Isabelle Poncelet cs to Rule 43. (2869/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u127	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Isabelle Poncelet cs on article 43. (2869/8) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Isabelle Poncelet cs to Rule 43. (2869/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u128	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 43 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 43 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Isabelle Poncelet cs to delete Article 53. (2869/8) Vote on Amendment No 28 of Isabelle Poncelet cs leaving out Article 53. (2869/8) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u129	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 53 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 53 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 77 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2869/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2869/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u131	Vote on Amendment No Ahmed Laaouej to Article 7. (2828/9) Vote on Amendment No 84 by Ahmed Laaouej to Article 7. (2828/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 81 by Michel de Lamotte on Article 35. (2828/9) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Michel de Lamotte to Article 35. (2828/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 10) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 35 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 35 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 82 by Michel de Lamotte on Article 215. (2828/9) Vote on Amendment No 82 by Michel de Lamotte to Rule 215. (2828/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 10) The amendment was therefore rejected and the Article 215 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 215 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 83 by Michel de Lamotte introducing an Article 217/1(n). (2828/9) Vote on Amendment No 83 by Michel de Lamotte to insert an Article 217/1(n). (2828/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 10) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u133	Mr President, we will vote against it, but I would like above all to deplore the way in which the government deals with the law applicable to the NSAs in the future. There is a sausage in the government's way of doing things which means that today we are unable to see what sauce the NSAs will be eaten in tomorrow. There has been a change in the status of NSOs in insolvency law reform, NSOs have been included in this legislation on the Business Code, and it is already known that there will be changes to NSOs in the Company Code. This sausageing for such an important subject for the vitality of our democracy and civil society, in particular, is not acceptable. I wanted to say it in plenary. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u134	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 78 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2828/10) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2828/10) Reason for abstinence? [[(]] No. [[)]] Reason for abstention? ( Non )
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u135	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 19/1(n). (2958/6) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 19/1(n). (2958/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 51/1(n). (2958/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 51/1(n). (2958/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 12) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2958/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2958/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u137	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 32/1(n). (2958/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 32/1(n). (2958/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[40]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (3023/1) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (3023/1) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mr Massin voted as his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2957/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2957/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mr. Maingain voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[113]] Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2959/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2959/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (201/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2001/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u142	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (2978/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (2978/2) Aantal stemmen 103 Number of voters Valid votes 102 Votes valables Perfect majority 52 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into three parts (A, B and C) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u143	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u144	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u146	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u147	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 118 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u148	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 116 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u149	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip222x.u151	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 19 April 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 19 April 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Have a nice vacation. Bonnes vacances! The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 April 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 19 April 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
