ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u1	Minister, my question is dated September 11, 2017. The situation of these refugees is well known today. Is Belgium participating in an aid programme for these populations in the countries where they have found refuge, which are countries in economic difficulties? Is there international coordination? Bangladesh was trying to close its borders under the influx of refugees. What humanitarian emergency means are deployed in this area to assist them? What is the Belgian contribution to the World Food Programme (WFP)? Is there a common position of the various competent ministers of the European Union on this Burmese issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u2	Mr.President, my question dates from September 4, 2017, which raises a problem as to the regularity with which we have the opportunity to question the Minister on matters of cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u3	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u4	I don't understand why these questions are coming today. Minister, it is not too late because this crisis is far from over. At the time, I was talking about 400,000 refugees, but today we have far exceeded the million Rohingya refugees who fled their country under conditions of massive executions of civilians, torture, burning villages, anti-personnel mines. All kinds of crimes have been committed. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights speaks of a classic example of ethnic cleansing. An agreement had been signed between Bangladesh and Burma on 23 November 2017 and repatriations had been envisaged for 23 January of this year under the agreement. These repatriations did not take place. Minister, can you give us the latest developments in relation to these repatriations that have not yet taken place? What is the situation today in Burma and Bangladesh? What are the most urgent needs? What types of aid does Belgium provide according to the situation on the ground? What contributions have been made and what is Belgium's position on this ongoing ethnic cleansing and the very serious crimes committed by the Burmese regime? The Rohingya are not very enthusiastic about a return to their country. In this context, what security assurances could be given to them in Burma?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u5	Mr President, the humanitarian crisis affecting the Rohingya population is alarming. In Myanmar, some 120,000 people are displaced and approximately 700,000 Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh. The Rohingya crossing the Myanmar border to Bangladesh are located in the Cox's Bazar district. The humanitarian response is coordinated by the International Organization for Migration (IOM), composed of UN agencies and international NGOs such as UNHCR, WFP, UNICEF, Caritas International or MSF. Belgium supports the humanitarian response in Myanmar and neighbouring countries hosting the Rohingya through its contribution to international humanitarian funds, known as flexible funds. For example, CERF, to which Belgium contributed EUR 12.5 million in 2017, released an amount of USD 13 million for humanitarian aid to Rohingya, both in Myanmar and Bangladesh. The DREF, Disaster Relief Emergency Fund, to which Belgium contributed €600,000 in 2017 released an amount of CHF69,653 in order to better prepare the Red Cross in Myanmar, in response to the immediate needs of those affected. The humanitarian funding provided by Belgium to WFP amounted to more than 17 million euros in 2017. This includes multi-year funding for the WFP Flexible Fund, Immediate Response Account, which is a multilateral funding mechanism through which WFP can provide immediate assistance in humanitarian crises such as the Rohingya refugee crisis. The DGD's Humanitarian Aid Directorate makes an annual analysis of the humanitarian needs of the world, including on the basis of the annual reports of the humanitarian organisations and the humanitarian calls published by the OCHA at the beginning of the year. The service also has regular contacts with land and region managers of humanitarian organisations. In this way, Belgium will base any decision on humanitarian funding on an overall analysis of the effective humanitarian needs and define the priorities for funding for the coming year. For 2018, Belgium will support the overall resources of UNHCR and ICRC with full flexibility of funding. This funding can be used by these organisations according to priorities and needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u6	Minister, your answer was sufficiently complete. However, beyond aid, there is still the problem of the political solution. I shall now turn to your colleague Mr Reynders because, if the causes do not change, they will always produce the same effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u7	Minister, I understood from your very quick response that we were working mainly through indirect funds. I can understand that for reasons of coordination, but it does not give us much visibility about what we have done in concrete terms in the face of this crisis. It seems to me important that we take stock at some point to determine whether aid really meets humanitarian needs. This crisis is extremely serious and the extent of the crimes perpetrated is known. Minister, I am counting on you to follow her closely. There are also all these guarantees of protection on return because there is assistance but also protection. If we want this crisis to be resolved, we should check how we can, through the European Union, participate in protection mechanisms on return. Otherwise, this crisis may continue. There is now a political agreement. This agreement must be used to ensure that the conditions for return are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u8	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) discovered that more than five million euros had been diverted from the funds paid to combat the Ebola epidemic between 2014 and 2016 (overbilling, misappropriation related to premiums, clearance of goods, bank fraud). Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone: none of these areas are spared. Investigations are still under way to discover the extent of the harm. Minister, what information do you have about this? What is the amount of Belgian aid for the fight against the Ebola epidemic in Africa? What measures have been taken or planned by Belgian development aid to combat this type of diversion, which has a very negative impact on the population? This event risks fuelling the selfishness of our Western countries, which is their current major flaw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u9	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of November the media announced that some EUR 5 million of funds had disappeared from the International Red Cross. These were cheating, slurring, overpriced medicines, fictitious workers, such things. It was said quite quickly that no donations from Belgium were involved. In this connection, Minister, I have a number of questions, in particular on the question of governmental cooperation with the Red Cross. Are there any projects of governmental cooperation involved? Has the Red Cross informed us of the facts that have occurred there? If there were projects of our government cooperation involved, what are they and how much money is it about? You started a whole new project with the Humanitarian Impact Bond with the Red Cross. Are there any consequences of the scandal on your new initiative? In what way can we possibly prevent money from being affected by governmental cooperation in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u10	Mr President, in 2014, the Humanitarian Aid Department financed a EUR 1 million project to combat the Ebola epidemic in Liberia. Following the investigations, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) estimates Belgium's loss to be approximately 294,475 Swiss francs. In all the agreements concluded with our humanitarian partners, there is a clause containing the commitment of the partner to inform DGD, on the one hand, in the event of fraud or active or passive corruption even at the stage of suspicion and, on the other hand, of the measures it has implemented to mitigate or remedy any problems identified. We also require that the final report submitted by the partner after the intervention is completed be accompanied by an internal evaluation and an external audit of the action implemented. In the light of this commitment, the Federation has immediately informed my services of the fraud detected in the context of interventions in the fight against the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. The Federation has also informed my services of the measures already taken and of the future in order to sanction those responsible and to avoid similar cases of fraud in the future. I therefore note that the Federation has fulfilled its obligations to our government in this matter. The fraud investigation shows that the federation estimates the loss of Belgian funds at 294 475 Swiss francs, converted into 250 000 euros. On the question of what impact this case will have on the control of the Humanitarian Impact Bond, it is important to note that the latter is a programme agreed with the International Red Cross Committee, not with the Federation of the National Red Cross Divisions. As I mentioned earlier, the conventions concluded with a partner include a reporting obligation for cases of fraud and active corruption. At the moment, we continue to have full confidence in our humanitarian partners who, unfortunately, cannot protect any organisation from internal fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, this could happen in any situation. In any case, I believe that the mechanisms to prevent this kind of incident need to be further strengthened. On the other hand, morally, this is even more unacceptable than in other cases. The sanctions should be even heavier and never work with the partner in question again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u12	Minister, what Mr Flahaux is saying is correct. It could always happen. Fraud is of all times, it's possible anywhere. I believe that it is particularly important for your competence, development cooperation, that our country's support is as broad as possible. I think it is important that we continue to build on this constantly in order to keep it as high as possible. These are things that we can spare as toothache. I hope that we will try to build in sufficient conditions, as far as possible, to avoid this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u13	Minister, on 31 October the European Commission published a report on the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) which focuses on its achievements in 2015 and 2016. European Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs, Skills and Mobility of Workers Marianne Thyssen said the results reported on 31 October show the added value of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which helps laid-off workers who have difficulty finding a job. The assistance provided by the fund, amounting to €70 million, has borne fruit: in 2015-2016, some 9,072 European workers had thus returned to work. I would point out that I had originally tabled the matter for Minister Kris Peeters and I do not know by what archane the question was transmitted to you. What are the EGF results for Belgium? Have the various regional plans for the reclassification of the unemployed been partially funded by the European EGF? If so, which regions are the most assisted? In the negative perspective of a failure on the second phase of Brexit negotiations and risks on Belgian employment, is there a plan for the pre-financing of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund? This seems to me to be a marginal issue in relation to development cooperation, but I have not decided to pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u14	Cooperation between the European Union and Cuba is specific. Cuba has not signed the Cotonou Partnership Agreements and therefore cannot benefit from funding from the European Development Fund. Cuba is therefore one of the countries served by the European Union's development cooperation instrument. In December 2016, a political and cooperation agreement was signed by the European Union with Cuba, endorsed by the European Parliament in July 2017. It entered into force on 1 November 2017. This does not mean, however, that Cuba will therefore be able to benefit from EDF financing, which has not yet signed the Cotonou Agreement and is not inclined to do so shortly. It was decided to strengthen political and cooperation links. This must be seen as a first step towards Cuba's inclusion in a possible successor agreement to the Cotonou agreement, which will expire in 2020. This is, at least, the EU's wish. The European Union's dialogue with all partners receiving assistance includes elements on basic values and principles such as gender equality and the rights of LGBTQI people, freedom of the press and democratisation. Within the European Union, Belgium follows up on this issue in the Council working groups, which are empowered as the group monitoring regional policy, and through groups following development cooperation whose ACP group discusses the content of a future cooperation agreement with the ACP countries. The new US administration is once again trying to introduce a policy of isolation and is therefore taking a political option other than that of the European Union. Belgium's policy of cooperation towards Cuba is mainly at the level of indirect cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament A written question by Mrs Fatma Pehlivan and her question No 22055 will be converted into a written question. 22091 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u16	Minister, on 14 December, the Council of Ministers approved the management contract for Enabel. In addition to the many changes claimed in your press release, you also stressed that this contract had been the subject of a unanimous agreement with the unions. However, according to our information, this would not be the case. The trade unions would have rewritten it and only approved point 29. Minister, can you confirm this information? How do you explain such a difference in communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u17	Mrs Grovonius, the Act of 23 November 2017 amending the name of the Belgian Technical Cooperation and defining the tasks and operation of Enabel (Belgian Development Agency) provides in Article 32 that the main principles of the legal staff regime are to be settled in the management contract. This provision was inserted as a result of trade union negotiations on this Act. The main principles of the legal staff regime were elaborated in article 29 of the first management contract between the Federal State and Enabel, endorsed by the Royal Decree of 17 December 2017 - hereinafter referred to as "the first management contract Enabel-Committee of Sector". Article 32 of the Enabel Act provides that the aspects of the management contract relating to the staff shall be adopted after consultation and, where appropriate, negotiations with representative trade union organisations. This provision is in accordance with Article 2 of the Law of 19 December 1974 on the organization of relations between public authorities and trade unions of officials under the authority of such authorities. This mandatory negotiation took place during the Sector Committee on 1 December 2017. The trade unions notified a unanimous memorandum of understanding on Article 29 of Chapter 7 of the Enabel management contract. I quote the first sentence: "The delegations of the authority and CGSP, CSC, public service SLFP have reached an agreement on the draft first management contract between the Federal State and the public limited company of public law with social purpose Enabel, Belgian development agency." The press release repeated this sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u18	Minister, thank you for that answer. Obviously, when you take a sentence out of context, you can make it say everything and anything. The unions still disapprove of certain elements of this management contract. I have no doubt that you are very well informed, despite the communications.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u19	Minister, you are following the situation in Congo very closely and you know them well. Events are being organized at the assembly line to protest against the postponement of the implementation of the Sylvester Agreement. The church plays a leading role in this. The Congolese Government prohibits the demonstrations and acts harshly. There are peaceful demonstrators being shot at, and according to MONUSCO there are six dead and about fifty wounded. On 22 January, the European Foreign Ministers sat together on the issue. Following this development, Belgium announced that the Belgian bilateral aid would be reoriented. Up to 25 million euros will be invested in humanitarian aid in 2018. It was also announced that there was a desire to cooperate more closely with NGOs on the ground to protect human rights and political freedoms. That was a good decision. On 24 January, the Congolese Ministry of Foreign Affairs responded with a press release to the reorientation announced. In the press release, the Ministry states that the new Belgian agency Enabel no longer has any reason to stay in Congo and that the Schengen House in Kinshasa will be closed soon. It also notes that Belgian development aid is not essential for the Congolese authorities and the population. Minister, what was discussed with the European Foreign Ministers on 22 January? How do you respond to the Congolese press release? What is the Belgian Government's position on the statement that Belgian development aid is not essential for the Congolese people? How do you respond to the announcement that the Schengen House will be closed and to the question that Enabel is leaving Congo? Finally, what are the possible consequences of the announcement? How can we ensure that the Congolese people are not the victims of a diplomatic conflict? In what way can we ensure that the necessary assistance reaches the population if Enabel is denied access?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u20	Mr President, may I ask my two questions on the same subject at the same time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u21	You have my agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u22	Thank you. Mr Minister, my questions follow Kinshasa's announcement a few days ago of its willingness to cease immediately the activities of the Belgian Cooperation Agency (Enabel) and the Schengen House. This decision itself would follow Belgium's announcement to review bilateral cooperation between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Minister, what concrete follow-up do you intend to give to this announcement at your department level? Have any contacts with the Congolese authorities been made? What could be the impact of such a request on our bilateral and multilateral cooperation, whether for the implementation of our country's programmes or for non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and on the populations concerned? What about Enabel's staff? Is a meeting at European level scheduled to take stock of the situation? In the context of the recent hearings on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a number of actors have proposed a number of solutions that would continue to support Congolese civil society. Among these various proposals is the creation, in the medium term, of a flexible multi-stakeholder fund for fragile states. That fund would continue to help a fragile State in the face of a diplomatic crisis. In the shorter term, the idea is to propose to reallocate, as of 2018, Enabel's funds for the DRC to non-governmental and multilateral programs. This solution would ensure that the Congolese Government's decision would not have an impact on civil society and the Congolese population. Minister, what is the government's position on these two proposals? Do you think they can be implemented in the case of the diplomatic crisis with the DRC?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u23	Minister, I will not repeat the whole story. The other members have already done so. A quarter of the government's resources for development cooperation, approximately EUR 25 million, would reorient you. Which sectors are we talking about? Where are the remaining three-quarters of the funds going today? Following the decision of the DRC, are you considering reorienting them? What contacts have already been established with local actors as a result of the reorientation? After all, it was intended that the funds would go to civil society. What happens to the staff of Enabel and the Schengen House, given the decision taken by the DRC? Do local employees, among other things, stay on the payroll? In what way will governmental cooperation in the DRC proceed? Can, now Enabel has to leave, projects be continued? If so, is it possible to do so together with other European governmental development actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u24	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you two questions: one about your decision of 10 January, the other about the decision of the Congolese government of 25 January. On 10 January, you announced your wish to redirect a quarter of the resources available for government cooperation with the Congo, 25 million euros out of 105, towards humanitarian aid and cooperation with Congolese civil society organisations, universities and scientific institutions. Enabel also received the mission to support civil society organisations active in the defence of human rights and political freedoms in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). My question echoes those of my colleagues: can you give us details of the budgetary developments of this part of cooperation, non-governmental, humanitarian aid, multilateral cooperation, civil society? How will choices be made? Have any concrete decisions already been taken? My second question concerns the same concerns as those of my colleagues. The Congolese government does not hesitate to punish its own people by brutally stopping this cooperation, even if we should have anticipated for a long time the proposal of our Parliament through its resolution of 2016. The Congolese government decides to break this bilateral union between its country and Belgium without warning and therefore to punish its own population. What will be the consequences of this decision? How is this going to happen? Will this amount be dedicated to indirect cooperation through local NGOs? What is your political and technical response to these issues? What will be the fate of the Belgian and Congolese beneficiaries and staff of this cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u25	I understand the questions that are being asked on the subject, because I share your concern. In my reply, however, I will confine myself to the Belgian development policy and the Enabel agency. I think it would be better if my colleague Didier Reynders answered the questions relating to the Schengen House and the discussions in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. Solidarity with the Congolese people is and remains the government's starting point. This solidarity was central to the decision that Mr Didier Reynders and I explained on 10 January 2018 in the Chambers Committee on External Relations. In the context of a review of government cooperation with the Democratic Republic of Congo, I decided to stop a number of initiatives, for a total amount of EUR 25 million. That is a quarter of the resources still available for governmental cooperation. These are both undecided interventions and interventions which were suspended last year and are now definitively discontinued. These resources remain at the disposal of the Congolese people. Part of the funds will be used for additional humanitarian aid to the DRC. I would also like to continue or launch a number of interventions in the areas of public health, human rights, political freedoms and the fight against corruption, in cooperation with Belgian, international and local non-governmental actors, institutional actors and local civil society organisations. The rest of the interventions are therefore ongoing. These are interventions in the education, agriculture and public health sectors. In summary, for the time being, two government cooperation programmes are being implemented: the 2010-2013 programme concluded at the end of 2009 by Charles Michel for a total amount of 300 million euros and the 2014-2015 interim programme concluded by Jean-Pascal Labille for a total amount of 80 million euros. The total budget for these two programmes is therefore EUR 380 million. Of this total budget, €98 million is still available. My decision at the beginning of January concerns a quarter of this available budget, i.e. EUR 25 million. The total Belgian official development aid to the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 2016 was EUR 80 million, distributed as follows: government cooperation (EUR 39 million), non-governmental cooperation (EUR 34.5 million), humanitarian aid (EUR 6 million), multilateral cooperation (EUR 1 million). I do not yet have figures for 2017. What I can already confirm is the increase in our humanitarian aid to the DRC from €6 million in 2016 to €17 million in 2017 and I will increase it to €25 million in 2018. I have asked my administration, DGD and the Belgian development agency Enabel, to work out these decisions and to submit a detailed proposal to me in the coming month. I do not yet have those detailed plans at my disposal and therefore I cannot explain them to you. I, like you, took note of a verbal note and a press statement circulated by the Congolese Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 23 January 2018, announcing the closure of the Schengen House in Kinshasa and the cessation of the activities of the Belgian Development Agency Enabel on Congolese territory. In a communiqué of 25 January 2018, the Belgian government took note of the announcement by the Congolese authorities of these measures. The government regretted this announcement, which could prevent the Enabel agency from continuing to operate directly and significantly for the Congolese population, mainly in the agriculture, public health and education sectors. This decision would also affect hundreds of Congolese collaborators working for the agency. The government has recalled that through its decisions, visits and presence on the spot, it ensures above all to support the Congolese population. This was the whole meaning of its decision of 10 January 2018, which aims to redirect a quarter of the resources available from government cooperation towards humanitarian aid and cooperation with Congolese civil society organisations, non-governmental organizations, universities and scientific institutions. Like its European and international regional partners, Belgium wants the basic needs and rights of the population to be taken into account and to move towards credible elections. Finally, the Belgian Government reiterated its commitment to a political dialogue with the DRC. With this reaction, the Belgian Government pointed out the consequences for the Congolese people of the decisions taken by the Congolese Government if they were confirmed and formalised. To date, these decisions have not been formalised. The Belgian Government calls for further dialogue. We continue to support our decision, but we want to give every opportunity to the contacts we have at present. The Prime Minister, Charles Michel, Foreign Minister, Didier Reynders, and myself have agreed not to make any further statements. No one has any interest in a bilateral conflict and certainly not in the Congolese people. I do not want to anticipate possible developments in the dossier. Let us give diplomatic contacts every opportunity. That is why I have a certain reluctance in my reply today. I would ask you to understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is good that you place solidarity with the Congolese people at the centre. You have given us the figures, which gives us an insight into what is still going on today. We also understand that no decisions have been formalised today. Enabel continues his projects on the ground until another signal is given. I also welcome your holding the dialogue. It is a critical dialogue, but I believe that it should be, because the Congolese people are strongly endorsed. On the other hand, we must also keep the peace. Caution is the mother of the porcelain cabinet and in this case the Congolese people and the Belgians on the spot are the porcelain. I welcome the fact that a critical dialogue is taking place today and that work is continuing on a humanitarian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u27	I thank the minister for his answers, and I understand of course all the reservations that accompany him. It is certainly not necessary to add a layer to the problem and put oil on the fire, even if we can regret the closure of Enabel, over there in the DRC. I think, as you said, we must always show solidarity with the Congolese people. This is essential and it is the objective that we must always have in mind, with of course, the achievement of inclusive, transparent and democratic elections. I therefore take note of the answer. I also hear that on the redeployment of aid, there is not yet a concrete proposal and that you are waiting for Enabel's proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u28	Except the humanitarian!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u29	Except the humanitarian. I think it's something that will have to come back very quickly. As I say, the idea of a fund that has been raised by different partners is perhaps an interesting one. We will certainly have the opportunity to return in the next few weeks. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u30	First of all, thank you for your answer, Minister. I also understand the government's caution. I have the advantage of being a parliamentarian and being able to say things clearly. I find that the cynicism of the Congolese government is reaching its peak. We can see how much he has to do with the situation of his own people since he shoots himself in the foot, whether it is through this Schengen house where it is mainly Congolese who seek to be able to join Europe. Congolese people will be punished. Through bilateral cooperation, the Congolese will be punished. Through SN Brussels Airlines, it is mainly the Congolese who travel and businessmen who try to invest in the Congo. These are decisions that will first and foremost punish the Congolese population, but clearly the Congolese government has nothing to do with them. Secondly, I believe that one of the commitments to bilateral cooperation must be speeded up. I have already said this on several occasions: each time we are in a position to get rid of ourselves. This is a peak when we try to alleviate the suffering of the Congolese population. I therefore invite you to speed up cooperation through Congolese civil society. There are many actors in civil society and it seems to me that civil society has shown its ability to live peacefully in order to live more dignifiedly in the future. These are partners with whom it is possible to work more intensively in the future. Thirdly, we have received a suggestion from the European Foreign Minister, Mr Koen Vervaeke, in a discussion at European level. I believe that strong cohesion is desirable on the part of our European partners, especially when the Congolese are trying to attack Belgium. They are attacking Belgium because it is simply one of the few voices outside the Congo trying to support the Congolese population and is being listened to at European and international level. I expect our European partners to be on the same page as we are. We will also have contacts with French parliamentarians in this regard. We have and I have allowed myself to remind Mr Vervaeke that we were not completely satisfied (in any case as far as I am concerned) with the level of European commitment to these political difficulties. It is also important to stress that this is not a difficulty for Belgium in relation to the Congo, but rather a difficulty for a country as a member of the European Union in relation to a country that is not concerned at all about the fate of its population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u31	Questions Nos 22878 and 23001 by Mrs Pehlivan are transformed into written questions. His question No 22900 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u32	Minister, in mid-January, Belgium promised the payment in three years of EUR 19 million to the UN Agency for Assistance to Palestinian Refugees (UNWRA); 6.3 million would have already been paid. UNRWA reported that it was facing its "most serious financial crisis" in almost 70 years of history after US President Donald Trump's announcement of the freeze of more than half of its early 2018 payments, or $65 million out of $125 million. By the end of last year, the Belgian government had decided to suspend its support for two school projects in the Palestinian territories because one of the schools financed by Belgium had taken the name of a terrorist figure. The suspension of the two school projects amounted to €3.3 million. Are the $6.3 million made up of the $3.3 million earmarked for school funding and whose funding has been suspended? How are we, moreover, in relation to this file? In the face of American decisions, what position will Belgium take in the UN and EU bodies? Since the news brings me there, I would like to add a question. We were able to read in the press today that a Palestinian school co-financed by Belgium was demolished by the Israeli army. How do you react to this new destruction? Have any compensation been sought from Israel or will it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u33	Minister, the US government has indeed decided to reduce its contribution to UNRWA from USD 400 million to USD 60 million. For us, that is an important organization. We donate almost 20 million over the next three years. Minister, how do you estimate the American demarche on the freezing of the American contribution to UNRWA's budget? What impact could this have on the further operation? Will you express your concern to the American authorities? Will you take the necessary steps to ensure that the US authorities are also addressed at European level? How much has our country already donated to UNRWA over the past year and this year? Which projects were financed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the suspension of the financial support for the schools to which you refer is part of the programme of government cooperation between the Belgian Federal Government and the Palestinian Authority. UNRWA's funding is part of the humanitarian programme. These are separate budgetary allocations. The amount committed to support UNRWA's general resources therefore does not include the $3.3 million suspended. President Abbas' visit to Brussels on 22 January 2018 allowed me to address the subject of the interruption of the two school construction projects. After that interview, I was optimistic that a solution could be found quickly in the interest of Palestinian youth. Contributions to the general resources of international humanitarian organizations are in line with a commitment made by Belgium under the Grand Bargain, which states that donors will aim not only to commit multi-year funding but also to increase its allocation to the general resources of humanitarian organizations. UNRWA launched its call for humanitarian funding for 2018 in Geneva on 30 January, amounting to $800 million, including $400 million for the Syrian region and $400 million for the Palestinian Territories, Gaza and the West Bank. The funding gap for the programme in 2018 is estimated at $500 million. UNRWA can continue its activities until the end of February, after which it will gradually cease. Commissioner General Krähenbühl is aware that such a funding gap cannot be compensated. He announced reforms and savings on the cost structure, and he is looking for new funding opportunities. A ministerial donor conference was held in Geneva on 26 February in the presence of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I'm considering taking part in this. Belgium confirmed in January its decision to finance UNRWA's general resources to the tune of €18,750,000 over the next three years, or €6,250,000 per year. Belgium recognizes that the contribution of UNRWA is essential to the well-being, protection and human development of Palestinian refugees and stability in the region. Belgium remains a predictable and sizeable lessor. It proves this, once again, by this unallocated multi-annual support. The United States, for its part, has contributed EUR 60 million of its expected contribution of EUR 135 million. The fate of the EUR 65 million balance is far from being settled. The U.S. administration suggests that its decision is motivated by a search for more efficiency and budgetary efficiency. At the same time, the United States President has repeatedly mentioned his desire to exert financial pressure on UNRWA in order to convince the Palestinian negotiator to meet at the negotiating table. This tactic will not lead to lasting results. Belgium, of course, joins the European Union's communiqué, which deplores the American decision. In 2017, our country made a total contribution of €11.25 million to UNRWA. Of these, 6.25 million was a so-called core contribution, a contribution to UNRWA's general budget. €5 million of specific UNRWA projects were supported in Lebanon and Jordan, for example in the fields of education, public health and cash transfers. As I said, it has been decided to retain the core contribution of EUR 6.25 million for the next three years and to accelerate the payment of the contribution for 2018. In addition, EUR 750 000 has already been provided for support for specific projects in Lebanon and Jordan. I do not exclude supporting other UNRWA projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. I did not react to the destruction of the school by the Israeli army. I asked you if there was any reaction to today's news, namely the destruction of a school by the Israeli army.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u36	Not yet, but in the past, we have protested every time such events have taken place. We are therefore collecting more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u37	We will certainly come back to that. I recall the importance of the request for compensation when such acts are committed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u38	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u39	With the concurrence of the minister, I would like to briefly suspend the meeting and go into camera.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u40	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the comprehensive approach needed to complement the missions currently being carried out by Belgian Defence in Mali. Belgium was in command of the European training mission until January 2018. As of the end of January, twenty military personnel will remain active in this mission, but Belgium will concentrate its efforts on the mission MINUSMA (United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission for Mali). Minister, can you tell me what follow-up will be given to the next two missions in which Belgian Defence is currently participating as part of a comprehensive approach involving development cooperation in this partner country? Have there been any contacts between your FPS and the Ministry of Defence to ensure the long-term coherence of our country in this region?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u41	The Belgian Government has adopted a strategic note which defines and encourages the overall approach and greater synergy in its external relations by the various federal departments. As you know, Belgian Cooperation has been present in the region for more than 30 years with governmental, non-governmental, multilateral and humanitarian programmes in Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. Mali and the Sahel region are ideal for this approach. This country is now hosting the largest deployment of our Defence abroad. The Belgian generals did indeed command the European Military Training Mission (EUTM) until January 2018. Now, the Commander MINUSMA Force is also under the command of a Belgian general. With regard to civil security, the Vice-Commander of the Urban Civilian Training Mission (EUCAP Sahel) is also Belgian. On the diplomatic level, Belgium also invested in upgrading the diplomatic offices of Bamako and Niame to the rank of embassies on 1 February 2018. Our diplomatic activity and contribution are also intensifying through our interventions within a European or United Nations framework. For the past year and a half, the Africa Division of the SPF Foreign Affairs has received the services of a Sahelian policy coordinator. The perfect collaboration between the various cooperation departments, Foreign Affairs, Migration, Intelligence and Defence, takes shape in close coordination and joint projects to improve the security and living conditions of the people. Thus, within the framework of the cooperation programme 2016-2019 concluded between Belgium and Mali, an intervention to support the effective implementation of the national action plan, UN Resolution 1325, "Women, peace and security", is being carried out in the framework of a delegated cooperation with UN Women and in partnership with MINUSMA, for a total amount of €1.5 million. The programme seeks to support women's rights in insecure areas. Another intervention, financed from the foreign affairs budget in the framework of preventive diplomacy, allocates EUR 100 000 through the EUTM mission, mainly to the financing of the inter-arms operational centre in Bamako. Other actions – with MINUSMA, for example, as part of Benelux support – are under consideration. The main coordination channels within the SPF are the monthly meetings on the Sahel, which bring together the various ministries and departments, and the ad hoc meetings of the Task Force, both in Belgium and Bamako, to support the generals. These meetings allow us to harmonize our vision in other United Nations and European cenacles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u42	Thank you to the Minister for his very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u43	Minister, an international conference on the reconstruction of Iraq, in cooperation with the World Bank and the private sector, will be held in Kuwait from 12 to 14 February. As a result of the conflict against Daesh, the needs are enormous. The Secretary-General of the Iraqi Council of Ministers said that a joint study by Baghdad and the World Bank had estimated the cost of reconstruction at at least $100 billion. He said that Iraq needs international support to bring internally displaced persons back, secure humanitarian operations, support stability in liberated areas and rebuild the country's economic structure and services (housing, energy, transport, water and sanitation). In the same way that Belgium has done its part in the military coalition against Daesh, it is now essential that we also do our part in the reconstruction of the country – it is in our interest because we know the number of millions of Iraqis who are outside the borders, especially in Europe – as part of a 3D strategy that it is more important than ever to implement quickly in its development strand. Only in this way can we ensure stability and security in the region and prevent any resurgence of extremist groups. Minister, what kind of aid do Belgium and the European Union intend to offer in the short, medium and long term? What funding is planned, through which channel and through which budgets? What concrete projects are under consideration? How is it planned to organise and link Belgian aid with those of the European Union and the international community? Will you participate directly in this conference and what position will Belgium stand for?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u44	In 2018, Iraq's reconstruction efforts will gradually move ahead of stabilization efforts to meet immediate needs in the liberated areas. The needs are large and all kinds of amounts are linked to them. At the reconstruction conference in Iraq, to be held in Kuwait, priority should be given to the needs and means to be used for reconstruction. At present, there are still uncertainties in this regard. Nor is it clear to what extent the European Union will be able to draw the necessary attention at the conference to the response to needs, including the social dimension of reconstruction. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 January 2018, the new European Union strategy in Iraq was approved. This strategy is holistic in nature, draws attention to the root causes of the crisis in Iraq and attempts to address it with, in parallel, assistance for humanitarian needs of stabilization and reconstruction. The European Union is currently working on the transition from humanitarian action to development action, and Belgium supports these policies. Our country is convinced that, in order to achieve more stability and security in the region, assistance to Iraq is necessary. Belgium itself provides direct support. Currently, €4.25 million of humanitarian aid is planned for 2018. In addition, some of the Belgian contributions to the general resources of a series of international humanitarian organisations help meet some of the humanitarian needs in Iraq. Support of EUR 3 million for stabilisation in the country was also proposed. Belgium will participate in the Kuwait conference on Iraq during its three days and, in close consultation with the European Union's partners, will plead for assistance for Iraq in order to meet the needs in a way that also addresses structural problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. We must pay close attention to what is going to happen in Iraq in the coming months and years and not to make the mistakes that we have made in other countries. Once the war is over, we must not lose interest in this country. This is really a politically very important situation for us. Iraq has become a partner of Europe. We've seen it, we're working together in the fight against terrorism. It is a country that remains very fragile, divided between Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds. We have a political interest in trying to be present through this reconstruction effort. Other regional powers will certainly want to be involved, but Europe has a very important map to play for its own stability, security and for the return of Iraqis to their country. This must be a high priority for Europe. There is, of course, a strategy, but I am concerned that we are still not seeing very well how to help Iraq today. I myself had the opportunity to go to the outskirts of Mosul. I pleaded that we should intervene quickly and not let the years pass. This intermediate period is a period of great fragility, of great hope also for the Iraqi people. Iraq probably has the means to pay part of its reconstruction through its oil rent. But I think that through our businesses, our cooperation, our political will, we can play a very important role there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u46	Mr Minister, on 1 February last, the Special Adviser to the UN Ombudsman for Syria, Jan Egeland, said that, according to him, "humanitarian diplomacy seems totally powerless", we are not going anywhere in Syria." Indeed, deliveries of food and other basic necessities have been limited as ever since 2015. Bashar al-Assad's regime has thus not allowed any convoy of humanitarian aid to enter Syria for more than two months. However, as many as 13.1 million Syrians are currently in need of such assistance, including the 5.5 million people who have found refuge in neighbouring countries. Those who have remained in the country often experience a real ordeal, especially in the areas of Idlib and eastern Ghouta (near Damascus), which are still plagued by violent fighting. In this context, Mr Egeland asks Russia, Turkey and Iran, the three sponsors of the fragile ceasefire between the Syrian regime and certain rebel groups in December 2016, to intervene in order to improve the situation. More specifically, he would like them to impose a "de-escalation" in the governorate of Idlib, where many rebels were gathered, and a "humanitarian pause" in eastern Ghouta, in particular to evacuate wounded persons and children. Minister, how do you react to Mr Egeland's worrying findings about the effectiveness of international humanitarian aid in Syria? Do you share his analysis of the situation and the recommendations he has made? If this international aid does not go 'nil', I imagine that the same is true for aid financed directly or indirectly by Belgium. What exactly is it? What is the humanitarian aid provided by Belgium in Syria today? Through which channels is it channelled to local populations, through which multilateral organizations, in favour of what actions and projects on the ground? What budgetary resources have we mobilized for Syria in 2018 and in previous years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u47	Mr Dallemagne, the humanitarian access to the besieged areas of Idlib and eastern Ghouta is indeed of great concern. During her briefing on the situation in Syria during the Security Council on 30 January, Ms Ursula Mueller, United Nations Assistant Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Deputy Emergency Relief Coordinator, reported that actors on the ground were unable to provide humanitarian assistance in December 2017 and January 2018. For the first time since February 2016, no humanitarian assistance was deployed for two months. This is an exceptional situation. Humanitarian aid cannot under any circumstances be used as a political instrument. Despite momentarily difficult humanitarian access, it is our duty to continue to support these actors and to use all available means – both financial and diplomatic – to provide access to vulnerable people in besieged areas. Belgium has already stressed this point on several occasions. Given the vital nature of humanitarian needs, Syria and its neighbours have been among Belgium's humanitarian priorities in recent years. At the beginning of the year, Belgian humanitarian aid for these regions amounted to EUR 34 million. Several WFP, UNHCR, ICRC and UNRWA programmes have been funded, mainly with a view to providing food aid and ensuring the protection of refugees and internally displaced persons. Education, housing and other primary needs were also addressed. In addition, Belgium has financed flexible humanitarian funds for Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and Iraq. These funds, managed by OCHA, are based on humanitarian principles and work mainly with Syrian NGOs. The 2018 humanitarian budget currently provides for €24.75 million to be allocated to Syria and its neighbours. However, it is important to note that the total allocation of this budget has not yet been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic814x.u48	Thank you, Minister. The Syrian conflict is between, if I'm not mistaken, in its seventh year. Everyone finally got a little bit disinterested, gradually, in the humanitarian situation on the spot. We can see that the subject makes less headlines in the press. Yet this suffering is still extreme. Many Syrians are on their way to Europe. Therefore, everything you can do to alleviate this situation will of course be welcome. I hope that the Prime Minister, who has travelled to Moscow, has had the opportunity to discuss this situation with Mr Putin, who is one of the main perpetrators of this tragedy. Every effort must be made to put an end to this ordeal. Since I myself have been on the ground several times, I do not understand how European diplomacy is so inefficient with regard to the resolution of this conflict. And, in the absence of diplomatic efficiency, we must at least be generous towards the victims of this conflict.
