ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that 13 questions have been retained in total, ten of them on climate change, four for the Prime Minister and six for Mrs Marghem. A cluster for climate issues can be considered, with the Prime Minister and Ms. Marghem responding together. After the oral questions, there will be two drafts and the votes. In order to be clear and completely transparent, I would add that it has been decided to seek the opinion of the Council of State on Mrs De Block's draft 3275 and the amendments to it. It's a design with urgency. I should also like to make it clear to you that the opinion that will be requested is also urgent. An opinion on five days, in such a way that we know this and that it has been said very clearly, which actually allows Mrs De Block to leave. Mrs. Pas, would you like to keep your questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u3	Mr President, if there is another government to question next week, I would like to postpone my question to next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u4	I'll take that answer as a yes. Mr. Hedebouw's question on the 'yellow cups' was upheld. Mr Vuye's question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u5	In view of the late hour, I propose that we stick strictly to the Rules of Procedure, namely, two minutes per speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we can finally address the issue that should be of primary concern to all of us, namely the climate issue. Prime Minister, in December 2015 COP 21 opened. Fifteen thousand people were protesting in Ostend. We were then pleased to have reached an ambitious and binding agreement. But what is the record after three years? Nothing happened or didn't happen much. This Sunday, 75 000 people, dissatisfied with the lack of ambition at the climate level, walked through the streets of Brussels. A historic mobilization. I saw, at this demonstration, people you never see in the demonstrations. So there was my neighborhood committee, my baker. Even Marie-Christine Marghem was there! What do we learn? That on Tuesday Belgium rejected the European targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy. We learn that Belgium sits on the interparliamentary resolution voted unanimously by all the Belgian parliaments. It is reported that Ms. Marghem has dried up meetings with the Regions and that the federal government is slow to adopt its own contribution to the National Climate Plan. Prime Minister, on Wednesday, I heard you on the radio. You said you were going to fight so that Belgium could take a more ambitious position at COP 24 than you had in the first week. It's Monday. Minister Cricke will take the voice of Belgium, the voice of all Belgians. Seventy-five thousand Belgians asked him to finally have a climate ambition. Prime Minister, what mandate are you going to give Minister Cricke? Will you finally allow him to join the group of ambitious countries that will demand a rapid increase in the targets? Prime Minister, 500 young people have written letters to you, instead of writing to Saint-Nicolas. They thought it would be more useful for their future. I'll give you these letters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u7	Prime Minister, I wonder if you have heard the 75,000 demonstrators who marched on the streets of Brussels last Sunday. I wonder if you understand what they're asking for. I know they don't want a tweet of support from the Prime Minister, they want strong actions to fight global warming. You have to listen to them. They don't ask for the moon, they only want the earth, a planet on which they can live in good health. The message they are sending us is that we need to go faster, further and stronger in the fight against climate change. It was therefore with great anger that they learned that on Tuesday Belgium voted against a proposal for a directive on energy efficiency and abstained in the vote on a directive on renewable energy. Just 48 hours after the march for the climate, while scientists around the world sound the alarm bell, your government seems completely disconnected from the real concerns of citizens. Of the 28 countries of the European Union, only two, Belgium and the Czech Republic, voted against the directive on energetic efficiency. It is lamentable to see our country stand out as one of the most backward European countries in terms of climate. It is even more lamentable to know that our Parliament asked you to support these two directives in the vote on the interparliamentary resolution on climate, which was adopted almost unanimously on 25 October. As Prime Minister, you had a duty to bring the Regions together to prevent our isolation on the European scene. You have not done so and the consequence is that Belgium's image is deeply damaged. Prime Minister, what commitments do you make to respond to the 75,000 protesters who ask you to take strong action for the climate? Like my colleague, I will give you a series of letters from 15 schools in Flanders and Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u8	Mr President, Minister, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday 2 December 75 000 people have argued. Many of them had never argued. Yet they have come to Brussels, despite the bad weather. In particular, they asked that this government should have greater ambitions in terms of climate. The reaction of you and people from your government was actually encouraging. You yourself said that a climate march is an incredible citizens' initiative. The climate debate should be an important concern for future generations. Belgium, which has finalized its Energy Pact, would defend its ambitious objectives at COP24. Mrs Rutten van Open Vld spoke of a beautiful and strong signal for a positive and ambitious climate policy that works for everyone. Wouter Beke found it a very strong signal from many people who want to take responsibility and take questions from others. He called for the glove to be taken up with all those involved. In other words, everyone's happy! Mr Prime Minister, just two days later, Belgium managed to vote against a resolution that would be a directive on energy saving. Moreover, according to a newspaper, the ambassador would even have been instructed to look for a number of countries to vote against together. So you didn't just vote against it, you also sought coalitions to vote against it. Only the Czech Republic followed you there. Belgium abstained in the vote on the Renewable Energy Directive, together with Hungary and Slovakia. Prime Minister, how do you think those 75 000 protesters felt when they heard this news on Tuesday? Actually, you spat a little in their faces and told them that you didn't take their sighs into account. Prime Minister, today a number of Members of Parliament have had children. There were 500 signatures, of which I'll give you a share. I'm going to give you something else, on behalf of all the colleagues who were there. These are all drawings. They turned that into a big pendulum. 16-year-olds who will be around 40 in 2050 demand greater ambition for the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u9	Prime Minister, it was a busy day and it was three incredibly turbulent weeks because of a crisis that this government has faced itself entirely. This meant that important debates could no longer be held. Let this, however, be the challenge of our time. There are four climate ministers in our country and it would be expected that we would have made an excellent course with that army. However, our country does not meet any climate objectives it has signed. This is evident from Eurostat's report. We are not achieving them in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, not in terms of the share of renewable energy and not in terms of energy efficiency. The regions do not meet these objectives and neither does the Federal Minister. We can see that, too. Outside it's now 12 degrees. We also notice it in terms of air quality and our health. Last Sunday 75 000 people came to Brussels with too few trains. They left the streets cleaner than they found them. They walked peacefully and received a compliment from the police for the way they delivered their message. You, too, congratulated them and promised an ambitious attitude at the climate summit in Katowice which is now under way. Just two days later, you hit the face of all those people, a hallucinating cold shower. To their sincere and constructive demand for a climate policy worthy of name, this government responded to four climate ministers, the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, with a no-vote against a measure for more energy efficient Europe, which is not only good for the climate but also for the wallet of our citizens. Apparently, we are doing everything we can to preserve that trophy of climate fossil, Prime Minister. The question is very simple: when will the actions follow after the words? Is there going to be a climate law with binding objectives and a clear roadmap in this country, following the example of almost all the countries around us? Or will you continue to muddle with four ministers and no result? You will say to all those children whose letters I have in their faces: "No, I do not care what you have to say."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u10	Prime Minister, it can be said that your Minister of Energy is a miracle of the crisis. Indeed, if there were not everything we were concerned about this afternoon, I think we would have had a particularly interesting moment, by identifying Mrs Marghem's responsibilities in this new fiasco a little more precisely – because we must call her that. The fiasco is kind of a specialty of Mrs. Marghem. Besides, let's read the press. Internally, within the government, and particularly within your party, when we read Mr.Crocke's words, we understand that Mrs Marghem has not taken on her unifying role in any way. However, if a federal Minister of Energy is still competent, it is to ensure at least the turn of the table to bring the points of view closer together. It's the role of a federal minister. Mr. Cricke himself said that between the meetings in Katowice, and from June until now, there had been nothing. They may see each other at Monday morning meetings at the MR headquarters, but they obviously don't talk about the same subject. Or the Prime Minister does not have time to devote a little money to achieving a result. Anyway! It's time this masquerade stopped. It is time that the objectives announced by your Government and intended by the reasonable regional governments... We may come to speak, not of Flanders, Madam Minister, because this was unnecessarily injuring. Appointing political responsibilities included talking about a part of the Flemish government, no doubt. Once again, your ally who is so wretched these days has prevented convergence. You're gonna tell us. But stop saying all the time that it is the fault of others when you do not assume your share of work!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u11	Prime Minister, 75 000 people argued last Sunday during the biggest climate event ever in our country. It was a hopeful demonstration of people who are rightly concerned about our climate, about the future of our children and grandchildren, in short, about the future of our planet. By the way, it was one of the first demonstrations that left no trace of garbage. We all know that the climate threat is becoming more real every day. So there's no time to lose. Our goals need to go up. Europe has understood this, because on the basis of a feasibility study, Europe has recently decided to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy targets. Belgium is also aware of this. We, too, need to strengthen our objectives, and we have done so, because it is not for nothing that we in Parliament adopted a resolution about five weeks ago with an overwhelming majority asking the government very clearly to subscribe to the strengthened greenhouse gas climate targets. Belgium is small, but can and must help to reverse the tide. Yes, we must be ambitious for our climate. Yes, we must seek acceptance and, no, we must not be blind to the concerns of people and businesses about how to achieve these climate objectives. However, we must always maintain our level of ambition. As much as I was impressed by the positive atmosphere and the massive turnout during the climate manifestation on Sunday, the more disappointed I was when I saw that the Minister of Energy stepped into the manifestation. I was even more disappointed when I heard her statements. Even greater was my disappointment and amazement that Belgium, just 48 hours after the climate march, voted against the increased ambitions for energy efficiency. Honestly, I don't understand. Despite the demand of all parliaments in our country, Belgium has nevertheless decided to vote against the European climate targets for energy efficiency. I have only two questions. Why did Belgium decide to vote no? How will you actually translate the climate resolution adopted in Parliament into action, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u12	Prime Minister, Madam Minister, as all international experts urge us to review our climate ambition upwards and a statement – in addition to interparliamentary – urges you to act vigorously, Belgium has the opportunity to discover two ministers of the environment. On the other hand, we have the ideal minister: Marie-Christine who defends a climate ambition; Marie-Christine who participates in the march for the climate; Marie-Christine who, in the vapors of kerosene, makes a return flight to Katowice to bring the voices of the 70,000 demonstrators. On the pile side, it is another thing: Mrs Marghem who rejects responsibility for her partners at every failure; Mrs Marghem who fails to reach an ambitious consensus when, more than ever, the situation requires it; Mrs Marghem who has still not advanced on the National Energy-Climate Plan, while the Regions submitted their copy in early July. However, the most serious thing, minister, is that – as your Walloon counterpart says – you have not tried to create consensus. Two days after this climate march – 70,000 people on the streets – two directives were rejected. The problem is the following, Madam Minister. Climate reality is not waiting. There is only one planet Earth. Therefore, Madam Minister, you must not be on the courtyard side or on the garden side. During last Sunday's march, citizens did not ask you to make figuration at COP24 or publish your photos on Facebook, but rather to act. The planet is not waiting, Minister! The legislature is coming to an end. That is why I would like to speak out for a concern that goes back to the whole country. When are you going to act? When do you intend to create consensus and propose ambitious solutions that will enable future generations to hope?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, at the Climate Conference in December 2015, our country signed, to the satisfaction of our group, the binding Paris Climate Agreement. In recent weeks, there have again been different warning signs regarding the effects of climate change. At the same time, we also heard that global CO2 emissions are reaching record levels again. The good news, however, is that the European Union has recently increased its 2030 targets and announced its ambition to become the world's first carbon-neutral economy by 2050. Last Sunday's "Claim the Climate" parade, in which you participated with 75 000 others, shows that climate concerns are increasing rather than decreasing. There is also a demand for greater ambition from the political world. Madam Minister, I do not need to remind you that thanks to the efforts of Flemish Minister Tommelein, Secretary of State De Backer and your cabinet, Belgium's CO2 emissions have fallen and the extraction of renewable energy has increased. Nevertheless, it appears that we will not meet the 2020 climate targets. The challenges are therefore significant, not only for 2020, but also for 2030. Our party advocates an ambitious climate and energy policy, with our economy growing along the lines of the fight against climate change. There is a great deal of displeasure about the fact that Belgium in Europe was at a standstill with regard to the revision of the Energy Efficiency Directive and the Renewable Energy Directive. We would have preferred it to be different. Madam Minister, the 24th Climate Conference in Katowice will start next weekend, with the sole aim of realising the Paris Agreement. What message will you convey on behalf of Belgium at that conference? What political line will Belgium take at the conference? Will it be ambitious, according to the European directive, or will we be on the brakes again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many people have argued for the climate on Sunday. That's an important signal. Madam Secretary, you were there yourself, and there was some criticism of that. The regional governments were not very amused when you pointed the finger at the Regions. I even heard the accusation by Walloon Minister Crücke that Mrs Marghem had not taken up her coordinating role and that the relevant ministers had not called together over the last six months to work on the dossier. That is an important fact. I would therefore like to know the following. First of all, which direction do you intend to take? Secondly, the Energy Efficiency Directive and the Renewable Energy Directive have now been voted on. Yesterday, however, there was a very interesting debate in the Flemish Parliament on the way in which this was achieved. We have learned from the debate that such a vote against is only possible if the three Regions and the federal level share the same view and decide jointly not to do so. I am therefore interested to know what the background to this is. Is it true, as not only the Prime Minister, but also Minister Tommelein repeatedly said yesterday, that in every region, including those where the N-VA is not at the table, the directive has been chosen not to be adopted? I would have liked a lot more than a word of explanation from you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u15	Prime Minister, Minister, on Sunday there was a historic march of 75,000 people for the climate. Two lessons can be learned. First, everyone was surprised by this magnitude, even the organizers. Second, the protesters said: "Enough words, now deeds!" It can be said, Madam Minister, that these demonstrators were served because the next day you take out this tweet where you proudly pose in front of the plane you take to go to Poland: "By taking off this morning for COP 24, I take with me the voices of the 70,000 people who demonstrated yesterday". Not only, Madam Minister, do you pollute with a plane chartered specifically for you, but also to say what in Poland? "No, Belgium will not participate in the agreement which brings together all European states with two exceptions." Comble of everything, you even looked for a blocking minority that didn't work very well because you only had the Czech Republic next to you. Finally, you tell us: "It's not me. It's Flanders' fault." You tell us in fact that the 70,000 people you take with you, you throw them in a trash can in Poland since you abstained from both the 30% renewable energy by 2030 and you voted against the 32.5% energy efficiency by 2030. You say it's Flanders' fault, but what do your partners say? They say it's Ms. Marghem's fault because there was a lack of leadership on this file. We don't see Minister Marghem. There's even the meeting where your firm was totally absent. The partners were present, but not the minister or her cabinet. There is also the fact that if there is to be a no, all partners, the federal government and the three regions, must be against it. So, you're looking for a culprit when you're at least as responsible as they are. You're the lead, Mrs. Marghem, because you're the lead. Minister, how many tons of CO2 did your personal plane to Katowice emit? What were the positions of the federal and the three Regions? Tell us! How will Belgium fulfil its commitments on the Paris agreements by refusing these other two commitments? Finally, are you going to reconsider this position, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the march that took place in Brussels a few days ago was, of course, a very strong and important signal. I immediately reacted positively because as a government leader I have the responsibility to work hard from the majority in Parliament and to use everything to ensure a strong response. That is what we have been trying to do over the last four years, unlike some of the information that is being disseminated. In the last four years, in the European and international fora, we have always tried to put forward this ambition and commitment. Finally, I would like to use this rostrum to correct a number of false elements that have been colported several times over the past few days. For example, on the question of the Energy Efficiency Directive, those who are a little familiar with the institutions know that it is practically a purely regional competence. With regard to our methods of decision-making within a federal state, we must take into account – this is a constitutional requirement – the positions of those who exercise responsibility and jurisdiction. For days, I have heard that it is the federal government that would be responsible for this position! In practice, this directive has been approved. It will have to be transposed and implemented. I'm coming to COP24. A few days ago, I consulted Walloon Minister Jean-Luc Crücke, Head of the COP24 Delegation, in which he assured me that he would make a great deal of effort to ensure that the entire Belgian delegation would give its maximum support. I hope that this very ambitious objective, and in particular to agree with a group of 15 countries seeking greater ambition in this respect. I confirm that, with regard to this subject, contacts with the Walloon Minister in charge of the management of the delegation will, I hope, make it possible to show this ambition. Finally, I would like to announce another important element. The Walloon government has made a proposal that I welcome with interest. I intend to submit it to the Council of Ministers or even to the Conciliation Committee. This is our country's candidacy for COP26. I do indeed welcome this proposal and I suggest that this issue be discussed in the Conciliation Committee. I have also heard that people expect deeds, not words. We have done something about it, and we will continue to do it. First example. In the context of renewable energy, we will, by 2030, have the equivalent of four nuclear power plants, thanks to our measures for the offshore in the North Sea. These are acts, facts. Second example. We are the second country in Europe to have launched the green bonds, to stimulate the finance that takes into account this climate requirement. Third example. In our tax system, as it has been reformed, much more emphasis is placed on technological innovation to meet this requirement. Innovation is probably one of the key elements. The fourth example, Burden Sharing. For years those who want to play the lesson today were unable to reach an agreement on Burden Sharing. Well, an agreement was reached for the first time during this legislature. Finally, the energy strategy. Again, there is for the first time a roadmap between the Regions and the federal government, with the need to work day after day to continue implementing it. Here are six or seven concrete examples that show a very strong mobilization and that go far beyond the caricatural shortcuts, as often, heard in the mouth of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The Prime Minister has already pinned and scaled up the actions taken, which are resolutely geared towards ambition in the field of climate policy. Indeed, in the two cases concerning burden sharing, which had been waiting for years to be concluded, we managed, at the federal level, to have the necessary leadership for this dossier to succeed and for us to go head-up to Paris and get the Paris Agreement. Secondly, the federal energy strategy that emerged from the inter-federal energy pact, we also concluded it with the necessary leadership to ensure that by 2030, then 2050, we have a path in energy and climate policy that goes in the direction of strong ambitions. As the Prime Minister has said, we hear very surprising things through the way some of you tell the story about the decision-making process that relates to these two directives. It is all the more surprising that some of you were present at the vote on the sixth reform of the State. You know that, in this context, an increasingly extensive policy of regionalisation gives the Regions increasingly important competences, in a new logic which, at this time, involves putting the Regions on the same footing as the federal one. The Regions want skills. So they have to take care of them. From the moment we are in a federalism described as mature and adult at the time of the sixth reform of the state, each level of power must assume its powers. That's what's going on here. None-nine per cent of energy efficiency policy is in the hands of the Regions. We cannot intervene because we cannot encroach on the skills desired and which must be assumed by these levels of power. In addition, we are competent for part of the renewable energy production with wind turbines in the North Sea. After 2021, we are preparing to create a new 221-square-kilometre wind farm for wind power – which will be selected on the basis of public procurement – of almost 2 gigawatts. With the financial closure of the last two wind farms of the first period, ranging from 2013 to 2020, we will indeed have, by 2030, 4 gigawatts of installed power in the North Sea. The federal government will have completed all possible areas of renewable energy production in the North Sea. We are ambitious in our skills. All other renewable energy skills are held and must be assumed, in this mature federalism, by the Regions that have onshore wind turbines, biomass and solar panels. In these two dossiers, whether for energy efficiency or renewable energy, there has been a withdrawal of the Regions from the ambitions that the European Commission wanted to raise. To the extent that it would be interesting to review this operation in a smart way, why not create a climate agency (I heard it and I myself launched the idea a few years ago), which would give visibility to climate issues and transcend the divisions that exist within our institutional organization and that have been fluctuating over time. Since we cannot encroach on each other's skills, it is up to each level of authority to exercise one another's skills. From the moment when the federal level must bring the voice of the Belgian house to the international level and to the European Union, it is obvious that it is uncomfortable, as when a lawyer advises a client not to do something and the client chooses to do it. Sometimes this lawyer takes his distance. It must do so in this case, and it is for this reason that there has been this expression, because it is oriented towards the will to do better. We need to find a solution so that our federalism, which has reached a very advanced level in terms of skills, can now function. I'm going to travel with the regional ministers next week by train. I will offset the CO2 emissions with the allowances that have been calculated. That's why I decided to change the mode of transport. It was 20 hours by train. It would have been very difficult to take the train on Sunday after the march to arrive on Monday morning and return on Monday at the end of the day to attend the parliamentary committee on Tuesday. You will allow me to finish, Mr de Lamotte, by saying that there are things that we must do, that there are things that must allow us to move forward. With the four climate ministers, we will say it together and strongly, during the ministerial segment of COP24, be assured!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u18	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you both for your answers. I see here that many words and promises are heard, but where decisions are made and things can move, we cannot live up to them. Speaking of the policies you have put in place, for example, your tax policy, I note that it is not at all "climate" or "energy efficiency". We should organize a screening with this famous Climate agency to see if it is compatible with the Paris Agreement. And I doubt it. If we want to organise COP26, Prime Minister, we're going to have to be much more ambitious than that, otherwise it's going to be a bit of a shame when Poland organises cups in order to curb the ambitions of the negotiations. If you want to do it, you'll have to go much further than we're doing. I still hear excuses today and we throw the ball at each other by imputing the blame to the others rather than to ourselves. People, they're tired of it and they're saying it. On the sidelines of last Sunday's protest, there are the 'yellow vests', those people who can't and challenge politics. The debate we have had today has only strengthened all this. As Bouli Lanners has said, you should not be surprised if people come across the street of the Law!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u19	Prime Minister, it is no longer time for good words without effect, which are wind and caquet. The time has come for action and ambitious challenges. When 75,000 people go down the streets to defend the climate, when heat waves, storms and droughts multiply, it is unacceptable to oppose new directives that are essential to change our economy in favour of the environment. Today, it must be deplored, our country is wearing the climate donkey hat. We are relegated to the most backward states. Another policy is therefore urgent and we ask you to change course and clearly and unambiguously support an increase in climate ambitions. Perhaps you will make Gandi's mind your own: "Happiness is when your actions are in accord with your words".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, Madam Minister, for your answers. Madam Minister, I have handed over the bag of all the drawings and the petition to the Prime Minister and I hope he will give you some of it, because it is worthwhile going through some of the letters from those 12- to 17-year-olds. The message is always the same. The young people say that they are doing their best to try to do something about the climate, and they are asking the political leaders, who determine their future, to do something about it. Madam Secretary, you say you've done a lot already. You say that you cannot help the fact that Belgium has voted against it, since it is up to the regions to decide in it. I am not a lawyer myself, but the Prime Minister of Flanders said that there was a vote against because everyone was against, both the Regions and the federal level. I have an extract from the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u22	Madam Secretary, I am speaking now. You've had plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u23	You have to finish, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u24	Madam Minister, if Belgium voted against, it is because all the entities, i.e. the three regions and the federal level, have said no, otherwise the representative of Belgium cannot vote against. As a result, Madam Minister, I will once again interplay you in committee with the question of why Belgium voted against the resolution adopted by a large majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u25	Prime Minister, I have to hand it to you: what a wonderful management language! Only she's in rather stark contrast to the facts. You describe this government's climate policy as if it were a bunch of pink unicorns flying straight at the climate target, while reality is one of a bunch of extinct horses that doesn't know where. You do not achieve a single climate goal: you should fall into the ground with shame! This country has no climate policy worthy of that name in 2018. We have no ambitious climate targets. We do not have an energy vision shared by the entire government. We don't have a vision of mobility. As a blow to the flames, this week you will be returning to banned pesticides that kill bees. That's what you do: you turn the clock back. You have more than earned the trophy of climate fossil with this government. Indeed, Mrs Schauvliege and the regional government deserve the title of climate saboteur. Jos Delbeke also thinks you're slipping. That's our top diplomat who's been at the top for years. I'm rounding up. We are the last generation to do anything about this problem. We must now adopt climate laws that set effective targets, that is our duty. I'm gonna close with two letters that I deliberately kept in mind. "We promise to do our best, but it must come from both sides" and "Without your action, my efforts do not matter." The children who wrote you these letters do not believe in pink unicorns, but in action. Nude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u26	Minister, I will read the transcript carefully to see how you were able to fly for 20 hours to achieve such a bad result. In any case, I understand how you manage to wean your colleague, Mr Cricke, and come back with all your empty-handed expeditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your explanation. Seventy-five thousand people have given a very powerful signal that there is no time to waste. Five weeks ago, every parliament in our country sent a very strong signal that we all agree to endorse our ambitious objectives. Mr Prime Minister, you said that a great deal has happened and we agree with that. We also support that, but we need to take even more action now, and we do not do that by voting no. We don't need a minister getting stuck in a manifestation and passing those blackbirds through. We do need a climate minister working with the regions, with colleagues, with families and businesses to meet our ambitious but necessary climate objectives. We have to make choices, very difficult choices, but we will have to make them together. Good energy and climate policy is essential. Good energy and climate policy also ensures economic growth, more jobs and more quality of life for us, our children and our clay children. Prime Minister, you have a reliable partner in us for this. I would like to conclude with a quote from the children who have delivered 500 letters here today. The truth always comes from a child's mouth. It says quite clearly here: do something about it, or the earth will perish. We want to pursue an ambitious energy and climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u28	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answer. Minister, 90% of the responsibilities fall under the federal government and 10% under the federal government. That is, moreover, the problem. In fact, as a federal minister, you have an obligation to achieve results. You must agree with three regional ministers on a number of missions. As a reminder and simply to quote the statements of your party colleague, between June and today, the federal government did not convene a meeting with the federated entities, in an attempt to seek consensus. That's what you're accused of. Your unique role is to make proposals and reach consensus. Is it really impossible in Belgium to agree on four ministers, whereas in Paris, in 2015, France had succeeded in reaching an ambitious consensus with 195 states. There you are, Madam Minister, where we are waiting for you! Your unique role is to reach this consensus. Prime Minister, I hear your statements. Remember that you yourself have set an agenda for the minister and the government in relation to the federal energy strategy. We're still nowhere on the energy standard and CRM. It was supposed to be in Parliament and out of the ministerial arcades at the end of July.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your reply. Climate policy is far too important to continue pointing to one or the other level of policy. We support an ambitious, positive but realistic climate policy. Let us in Belgium see how we can work together as best we can between the different levels. Not what separates us, but what binds us must be our motto. We would rather ride in the head of the climate peloton than on the tail. The fact that you were staring at us on Sunday strengthens us, optimists that we are, in the belief that you will work for this, together with the whole government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u30	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and Minister Marghem for their answers. We have written an interparliamentary resolution in this House. It's the first time this has happened. We've been setting up lines with this. It also seems to me to be an important signal. Moreover, it was made very clear that this story should be feasible and affordable for everyone. I think we should emphasise this. I also note that the answers given yesterday in the Flemish Parliament are very different from the story I have heard here. Both can't get through a door. If both are true, we're in some kind of quantum physics, and I don't believe in that. I'm going after this. I'm gonna find out where the problem is and if both of them can be reconciled. After all, four of us have to go through that door. I think we should get to work on this. At the end of the ride, I would have liked to know the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u31	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, thank you for telling us that going to a climate event gives you the right to fly on a personal plane and to pollute. That's it! Prime Minister, thank you for telling us that Belgium was going to apply for COP26. So we will be champions of the great gap between speech and action. Indeed, I would point out that in Belgium, CO2 emissions do not decrease, they increase even since you are in the government. You clearly did not hear the voices of the demonstrators who did not want words but acts or, rather, you heard it, Madam Minister, but you sit on it because you prefer to follow the dictates of the employers' world, the FEB, which on its website says that "the objectives of Belgium which are "rikiki" are – I repeat the term used – "disproportioned". In addition, the newspaper Le Soir teaches us the existence of the oil lobby to get Belgium to vote no in Katowice. Formerly, you had already extended the nuclear power by folding in front of Electrabel. Today, you bend in front of the FEB, Total, ExxonMobil. Prime Minister, Minister, you are one of the world's breakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u32	Prime Minister, the mobilization of the 'yellow vests' continues. The social situation is becoming untenable in Belgium and France. I think you should be careful about what is happening in France right now. The pressure is not going to stop, right-wing politicians. Macron must have gone back. Edouard Philippe had to step back. For years you have told us in Parliament: "Popular mobilization is no use, it will never change things." Look what's going on in France. This tax changes a lot. For you maybe not, but for people, it changes a lot. This is the first victory of a social movement: to have pushed back a government as antisocial as Edward Philippe's. What is happening in France will also happen in Belgium. Ah, you don't like it! On the MR side, we're not happy with that. This will happen because the movement is radicalizing. He rightly asked that this unjust taxation on diesel and gasoline be called into question. I'm asking you today, Prime Minister. You met a delegation of the 'yellow vests'. Do you commit to revisiting this mechanism of the ratchet that was introduced in 2003? Then the alternatives come to the surface. That is important, ladies and gentlemen. The movement in France calls for the restoration of the tax on wealth, to the point that the Prime Minister is in the process of doubt. Will he reintroduce it? As you know, it is possible to impose a tax on millionaires, a tax on wealth here too in Belgium. Don't say there's no money to invest in crèches, pensions, all those needs people talk about. People can't tie both ends at the end of the month. It is important, Prime Minister, now to give a clear signal to the 'yellow cups'. You met a delegation on Tuesday. What did they tell you? Do you agree to go back to your diesel and gasoline tax and introduce a wealth tax, a millionaire tax in Belgium? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a fine example of contradiction and inconsistency between what I have just heard in relation to climate change and Mr Hedebouw's intervention at the moment. Under the tax shift, with a view to reducing taxes on labour, the government has decided to gradually harmonize taxes on petrol and diesel, precisely to take account of this need and encourage more environmentally virtuous behaviour. Nice contradiction, Mr. Hedebouw! Then, between you and us, there will always be a huge difference: never, at any time, will we tolerate violence as the expression of an opinion! A few days ago, for three hours, I met some 'yellow vests' that had manifested themselves. I want to take into account - as we have wanted to do for four years - this very legitimate concern of people, whether they work or not, for purchasing power. It is a fundamental duty for me. This is why the government has undertaken structural reforms that have resulted in the creation of 218,000 jobs, creating more purchasing power. We are working on the deal jobs in this direction, so that unemployed people can follow training courses that actually lead to jobs tomorrow. This is also why the social envelopes have been devoted 100% to the upgrading of the lowest pensions, both for employees and for self-employed persons and for persons with disabilities, in contrast to previous decisions. Similarly, we will pursue structural economic and social reforms. Finally, with regard to the issue of petrol and diesel, I intend to organise with the ministers concerned the necessary monitoring so that we can take the necessary decisions to better understand the difficult impact of people in real life. We have both feet anchored in reality. We have no lesson to learn from you about this! It is not a question of making a little show or filming videos in the form of slogans to find themselves in a situation of changing the course of things!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u34	Prime Minister, I believe you have not understood the depth of the movement that is under way. I don't think you understand how angry people are. People are sick of it. They are organizing themselves to carry out very wide-ranging actions within the population. You're talking about ecology today. But why did you harmonize the excise duties upwards? You could also have harmonized them down. Why does it always have to be the little ones who pay? It's easy. People who have to travel 100 kilometres a month to go to work: they are the ones who are charged. The rich, anyway, pay for their pollution. There's no problem. I told you there was money to get. In the four years you have been leading Belgium, the number of billionaires has increased from 16 in 2014 to 27 in 2018. I am not talking about millionaires, ladies and gentlemen. There has never been as much wealth as today, and you say you can't do anything. Prime Minister, you're talking about violence. Stop! It is life that is violent towards all these people. Being fired is violence! Living with 1011 euros a month as you ask the unemployed is violence! I've challenged you to live a month with 1011 euros. No one in this room did. That's violence! And you're going to point the 'yellows' on your finger. It's a scandal! You will see, the movement will expand throughout Europe because people have been cashing for 10 or 15 years. You haven't seen anything yet! You can hang on because more and more people would see your government fall, so sick of these antisocial measures!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u35	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u36	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Vercamer referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u37	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3347/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3347/4) The draft law has 24 articles. The bill has 24 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u38	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole will take place shortly. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u39	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u40	Mr President, I refer to my written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u41	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3401/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3401/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u42	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u43	On 29 November 2018, the Court received a letter of 27 November 2018 informing the first President of the Council of State that the General Assembly of that Council, at its open session on 23 October 2018, has adopted, in accordance with Article 70 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State, the list of three candidates for a vacant post of State Council in the French-speaking framework. On 29 November 2018; the House received the letter of 27 November 2018 in which the first President of the Council of State informed the House that, at its public hearing on 23 October 2018, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with Article 70 of the Coordinated Laws on the Council of State, to establish a list of three candidates for a vacant position of State Councillor in the Francophone linguistic group. It was proposed by the Council of State, however, without unanimity: First candidate: Mr Luc Donnay, auditor at the Council of State. Second candidate: Mr Raphaël Born, Hearing Officer at the Council of State. Third candidate: Mrs Florence Piret, auditor at the Council of State. The Council of State, however, did not unanimously present: First candidate: Mr. Luc Donnay, auditor at the Council of State. Second candidate: Mr Raphaël Born, auditor at the Council of State. Third candidate: Florence Piret, Auditor at the Council of State. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names, which shall be expressly stated, within 30 days of receipt of the communication of that nomination. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of this presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names which is formally motivated. Any nomination of another list by the Chamber shall be made on the basis of applications received by the Council of State. The possible submission of another list by the Chamber should be based on the nominations received by the Council of State. The time limit available to the Chamber to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 29 December 2018. The time available to the Chamber to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 29 December 2018. The following applications were submitted: - Mr Raphaël Born, Hearing Officer at the Council of State - Mr Luc Donnay, Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Patrick Goffaux, Professor at the Université libre de Bruxelles - Ms Christine Horevoets, referer at the Constitutional Court Mrs Valérie Michiels, First Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Marc Oswald, Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Denis Patart, referer to the Constitutional Court - Ms Florence Piret, Auditor at the Council of State - Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State. The following applications were submitted: - Mr Raphaël Born, Auditor at the Council of State - Mr. Luc Donnay, Auditor at the Council of State - Mr Patrick Goffaux, regular professor at the Free University of Brussels - Ms. Christine Horevoets, referendum at the Constitutional Court - Ms Valérie Michiels, first auditor at the Council of State - Mr Marc Oswald, Auditor of the Council of State - Mr. Denis Patart, referendum at the Constitutional Court - Ms Florence Piret, Auditor at the Council of State - Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State. Mr Denis Patart and Mrs Elisabeth Willemart withdrew their candidacy. Mr. Denis Patart and Ms. Elisabeth Willemart withdrew their applications. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 December 2018, I propose that the nomination of the Council of State and the CVs of the candidates be sent to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 December 2018, I propose that you forward to the political groups the presentation of the Council of State and the curriculum vitae of the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u44	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: Draft law on the introduction of a mobility budget, No. 3381/1. Draft law on the introduction of a mobility budget, No. 3381/1. We speak out at the sitting and getting up, but first we listen to the government's motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u45	Mr President, with regard to the draft law on the introduction of a mobility budget, the project is scheduled to come into force on 1 January 2019. Since this project is of great social importance, but also in terms of mobility, ecology and health, a delay in this entry into force is obviously not desirable. I would point out that the social partners have given opinions on the two projects, this and the next, and are also insisting on an entry into force on 1 January in order to guarantee their legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u46	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u47	Draft law amending, as regards the mobility allowance, the Income Tax Code 1992 and the Law of 30 March 2018 on the introduction of a mobility allowance, No. 3382/1. Draft law amending, as regards the mobility allowance, the Income Tax Code 1992 and the Act of 30 March 2018 on the introduction of a mobility allowance, No. 3382/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u48	That's the same motivation, Mr. President. The entry into force is scheduled for 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u49	Mr President, I want to point out that these are fairly substantial bills that concern several committees, unless I am mistaken; certainly the Finance and Social Affairs Committees. I wish to be reassured that we will have sufficient time to be able to examine these files as they deserve. As the Minister has just said, they have gone through social consultation. I would not understand that we are not taking enough time to examine these files.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u50	I can assure Members that I have also been in contact with the Minister and with the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Next Tuesday we will hear from 9.30 a.m. to 10.45 p.m. about the representatives of the Central Council for Business and the National Labour Council. Then the issue will be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. Mr Laaouej, in our Committee on Finance, the item is scheduled for Wednesday morning. Since we invited the social partners at your request, your group colleagues and Mr Dispa, who is probably also here, have promised not to ask for a second reading. We would, however, be discussing it in depth. That's what we pulled out a whole day for. You can rest assured, therefore, that the matter will be dealt with in full with the hearing with the social partners and the detailed discussion afterwards. So we have served you at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u51	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u52	Draft law on measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance on withholding tax, No. 3400/1. Draft law on measures to combat tax evasion and evasion with regard to personal income tax, No. 3400/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u53	The part on anti-abuse measures requiring pension funds to keep their securities at least 60 days is a measure that was set out in the budgetary control of March 2018 and is to be carried out as a matter of urgency. With regard to measures to prevent the real estate discount from being charged several times, I refer to the figures of applications that had been blocked by the administration, i.e. 322 million in 2015, 172 million in 2016, 287 million in 2017 and, given the size of these sums and the operational impact they have on the service, the legislative initiative is urgently required.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u54	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u55	Draft law amending provisions relating to science policy, integrated police and defence, No. 3406/1. Draft law amending provisions on scientific policy, integrated police and defence, No. 3406/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u56	This is the bill amending provisions relating to the scientific police, the integrated police and the defence. The urgency of this bill is motivated at first instance by the fact that the government states in point 8 of the notification of the Council of Ministers of 9 March 2018 that the legal basis for the 2018 federal allocation to encourage certain initiatives in police areas must be settled before these amounts are liquidated. On the other hand, contractual instalments are to be made this year for two cases included in the list of investments of the law of 23 May 2017 on the military programming of investments for the period 2016-2030. In order to enable these commitments to be met, urgency is called for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u57	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u58	Mr. Chairman, can we know how many projects the government is asking for urgency for?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u59	Six.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u60	I hope that an item will be included in the next Conference of Presidents so that we can have a clear vision of how the work will be organised by the end of the year. I feel like we've been adding and adding emergency requests for two or three weeks! I hope that Parliament does not have to suffer the delays caused by the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u61	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u62	Mr President, not on behalf of the government but on behalf of a number of colleagues, I would like to ask the urgency of the motion for a resolution...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u63	Please wait, Mr. Bonte. We're not there yet. First, there are two further requests for urgency from the government. Draft law ratifying the Royal Decrees adopted pursuant to the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, No. 3407/1. Bill confirming royal decrees made under the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, No. 3407/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u64	Mr.President, these are royal decrees that must be confirmed by law to be effective before December 31, 2018. The bill must therefore be passed without delay by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u65	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u66	Draft law on the increase of the limits applicable for the determination of the suspension of solidarity in respect of pensions, No. 3409/1. Bill to raise the thresholds applicable to the determination of solidarity withholding in pension matters, No. 3409/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u67	Mr President, the urgency is due to the fact that this measure comes into force on 1 January 2019 and that the Federal Pension Service must be assured of its adoption as soon as possible in order to be able to implement it in time. Any postponement of the date of entry into force would also be detrimental, since budgetary resources were available and should be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u68	Mr President, the justification of the Minister for Pensions is minimalist. He is just telling us that the reform he wants must enter into force on 1 January. But he doesn't justify it in any way. It is simply a question of dismantling a measure of solidarity between pensioners. Apart from the political urgency, I think there is no justification for us to press on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u69	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u70	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, and with the exception of proposal No. I consider that 3398/1 by Mrs Sarah Smeyers, who is postponing her request for consideration, to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals are sent to the relevant committees. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No 3398/1 by Mrs Smeyers, which calls for the postponement of the request to take account of her proposal, I shall consider it to be accepted and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 December 2018, I also propose to you the legislative proposal (Mr Roel Deseyn) amending the Law of 19 December 2012 on the remuneration of staff and staff of public utility institutions, autonomous public undertakings and legal entities to which the State directly or indirectly exercises a dominant influence, as a natural person to introduce a wage standard for government directors, No. 3410/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 December 2018, I also propose that you take into consideration the proposal for a law (Mr Roel Deseyn) amending the Law of 19 December 2012 on the remuneration of members of staff and representatives of public interest bodies, autonomous public enterprises and legal entities over which the State exercises directly or indirectly a dominant influence, as a natural person, with a view to establishing a standard for the remuneration of public administrators, No. 3410/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u72	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u73	Mr President, as has just been said, I would like to make an urgent request on behalf of a number of colleagues on a difficult but very acute and deeply human problem. It concerns the request, by means of a resolution, for the active detection and repatriation of Belgian children, very young children, less than 10 years of age, who are currently staying in criminal camps, guarded camps and humanitarian shelters, and who cannot return to their home country, Belgium, for all kinds of reasons. After all, it is really about little Belgians. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the winter on the doorstep, in which these Belgian children in Syria, Turkey or elsewhere are effectively facing life-threatening situations, I would like to urge you, which is also your point of view, to try to deal with this resolution very quickly. For example, for everyone in the field, humanitarian organisations, families and security services are very quickly clear what the commitment of the Belgian Government means when they say that these little Belgians are welcome again in our country. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my request for the motion for a resolution No. 3399........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u74	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u75	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 28 November 2018. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on November 28, 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT n° 288/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet; A simple motion was tabled by Mr Gautier Calomne. Two motions were tabled (MOT nr. 288/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Anne-Catherine Goffinet; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Gautier Calomne. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u76	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 77 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. Mr Olivier Chastel voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u77	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 82 Yes No. 0 Non Abstentions 49 Abstentions Totaal 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3347/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3347/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u78	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 79 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3401/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3401/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip259x.u79	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 13 December 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 13 December 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 13 December 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on Thursday 13 December 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
