ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u1	Mr Janssen is present and can ask his question. The questions of the other Members will lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u2	Minister, in July 2017, I asked you a number of questions about the possible introduction of a friendly settlement between shoplifter and trader. This possibility was first discussed at the Council of Ministers of 14 May 2017 and would allow for more effective compensation for traders when they establish a shoplifting. The figures showed that, as a result of these thefts, the sector suffers a loss of 1% to 2% of its total turnover. Moreover, traders were found to have little confidence in obtaining compensation, which resulted in too few declarations being made. From the answers of your predecessor to my questions at the committee meeting of 4 July 2017 it could be inferred that the friendly settlement between trader and shoplifter would be introduced from January 2018. A draft protocol would be drawn up by your cabinet, which would result in a Dutch-style protocol after consultation with the relevant Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs and with the sector concerned. I have the following questions. How is your cabinet doing in drawing up the said protocol? Which stakeholders were involved in the drafting of the Protocol and what were their opinions? When can we expect the protocol to be introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u3	Mr Janssen, like my colleagues in the field of justice and home affairs, I have a great deal of interest in strengthening the safety of our self-employed and, above all, of our traders. The introduction of an accelerated procedure for an amicable settlement between trader and thief is an important measure. Shoplifting accounts for half a billion a year and fifteen complaints a day. That's huge. It is not just a question of fighting against theft, which is a miscarriage, but also of a sense of impunity. We all know that traders will not complain for a theft of EUR 50. That takes time, energy, but also money, that they rightly want to spend elsewhere. Since it is an important measure, it must be legally well calibrated in close consultation with stakeholders. In the first instance, my cabinet sat with the Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs to determine the procedure for the adoption of the protocol. Following those meetings, the representative organisations of the traders and the distribution sector, UNIZO, the UCM, the NSZ and Comeos, were received one by one in my cabinet in August 2017. They were then invited to three working meetings. At the last working meeting, the Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs were present. At this stage, a preliminary agreement provides for the following. Firstly, the amount of the friendly settlement would be set at EUR 181, which would be indexed. That amount is one-off and lump-sum to make it easy. Moreover, the amicable settlement is of a civil nature and compensates the affected trader. The friendly settlement does not prejudge a possible criminal prosecution of the thief. A new non-profit association will be established. Its administrative body will be composed of the parties concerned and a monitoring body composed of representatives of the Ministers for Justice, Home Affairs and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. The non-profit association should entrust the recovery of friendly settlements to a service provider. The parties concerned have provided a draft statute for the non-profit organisation to be set up and have also developed a hypothesis of the functioning of the friendly settlement system, in particular to clarify the interactions between the non-profit organisation and the service provider, on the one hand, and the police and the public prosecutor, on the other. The Cabinets concerned must now comment on the statute of the non-profit association and on the hypothesis of the functioning of the friendly settlement system. So, in cooperation with my cabinet, the parties concerned are preparing a preliminary draft protocol integrating the possible comments of the three Cabinets. The draft protocol will then be submitted for agreement to the Council of Ministers for signature by the Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs and myself. Its actual implementation would then take place before the end of the year. The parties concerned, their network and the service provider designated by the non-profit association will, for the rest, familiarise traders with the advantages of joining the protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u4	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Everything must indeed be legally properly arranged. I have heard that you have invited the right organisations, but that is usually the case. The draft statute is ready and the Cabinets and those involved are all consulted. We are pleased to hear that the protocol is scheduled for the end of the year. We all want things to go much faster, but we know how politics works, so we look forward to the end of the year when everything will come into effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u5	It's a combined question. Mr Janssen, you are the only one present so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u6	Mr. President, I'm here. If Members are not present, it is so bad for them. Parliament's rule is that if Members are not present, their questions are either postponed or commuted, if requested, to written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u7	Except in the event that they indicated that they would arrive late.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u8	Oh, no! That's a good one! I have never seen this in Parliament. Arrive late at 11:00 a.m. and want to ask his questions? I've never seen that! There is a normal agenda. I made myself available until 2:00 p.m. I blocked my calendar. [[It's up to everyone to do the same!]] I trust you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u9	In my opinion, every president has the right to work in his own way. I operate with some flexibility when members tell me, as Mrs Gerkens does, that they will arrive later because they have an impediment. If she gets there, she'll ask her question. In the meantime, I am working with the members present in the order of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u10	You're talking about the ones who warned you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u11	Yes. Mr Calomne is about to arrive as well as others and the agenda will follow. I am working like that in this committee, with flexibility. There are often several commissions at the same time. One goes from one to the other. Those who are active are often members of several commissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your comments. I support you in that. Most of the time I am here at Question Time and I have to see how colleagues come in later and are then put forward. That is not always pleasant, but we know how Parliament works and we do understand the situation of our fellow Members. The Flemish employers' organisation Voka advocates the creation of a third statute between that of employee and self-employed. The justification is that this statute would respond to new forms of work, such as job sharing or freelance work. According to Voka, a third statute, which combines the protection of the employees' status with the autonomy and flexibility of the independent status, can provide a solution. Firstly, how do you assess Voka's proposal to introduce a third statute? What benefits do you see for employer and employee? Secondly, have you received the signals on the subject yourself from the business community? Thirdly, is the same sound audible in Wallonia? Fourthly, have you discussed this with the Minister for Labour? Fifthly, will you discuss this with the Ministers for Labour of the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u13	Thank you, Mr Janssen, for your question. I have taken note of Voka's proposal and I want to be clear about it. In my view, it is not the right way to create a third statute for three reasons. Firstly, such a measure will clearly create administrative burdens and costs. Secondly, a third statute would make our labour law even more complex. Finally, it would lead to legal uncertainty. In particular, during this legislative period, the Federal Government contributed to the improvement of the social status of self-employed persons, including the increase in the minimum pension, the right to bridge, the reduction in the month of care to 14 days, the second pillar of the pension for self-employed persons and the right to 105 service cheques for self-employed persons becoming mothers. It is also time to put an end to the myth that the status of self-employed workers would be inferior status. The status of the self-employed, which has been strengthened, has been fully adapted to new forms of work created by e.g. digital platforms or the collaborative economy. On the other hand, it is necessary to clarify the boundaries between the existing statutes through the revision of the Labour Relations Act. The current law has not been amended to make a ruling on the nature of employment relations. The amendments to the law should improve and facilitate the monitoring of compliance with the different criteria. The general criteria will be given the role they deserve, in accordance with the current case law of the Court of Cassation. I am also in favour of further harmonisation between the social status of the self-employed and that of the workers. This harmonisation should be achieved in consultation with the representative organisations of the self-employed in the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed. I have already cited a number of reforms, supported by a majority, which were implemented together with stakeholders. The measures were implemented with the introduction of the specific government responses which take account of the particularities of the self-employed. I want to continue along this road and listen to the expectations of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. Indeed, the current government has already done a lot of things. You mentioned a large number of them. Nevertheless, I am pleased that you are prepared to change a number of things about the social status of the self-employed in the future. At that point you will certainly find a partner in our party.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u15	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, it appears from a study conducted in June 2017 of ten federal bodies that entrepreneurs regularly deal with, namely the FPS Economy, Finance, Social Security, Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, as well as the Federal Pension Service, INASTI, INAMI, ONEM, ONSS and AFSCA, that 66% of the responses by telephone and 65% of the responses by e-mail were correct and considered complete by the investigators-entrepreneurs. However, according to the Neutral Union for Independents (NIS), only 38% of telephone responses were considered correct and complete. In addition, 22% of calls and 23% of emails remained unanswered, while one in two emails received a response within 48 hours. This study was conducted by the MCP Quality Services Market Research Bureau through anonymous calls and emails. In essence, the expertise and accessibility of these federal services are weak. With regard to key points of contact for entrepreneurs, I believe it is essential to make them effective and accessible. The administration must be responsive and must support citizens in their entrepreneurial projects. Minister, are accessibility issues related to a lack of staff? If so, is it possible to recruit them? Is there a specific deadline for employees to respond to emails? Is there a quality control of the responses sent by staff, by rereading or by sampling? Are services subject to regular assessments? Is there adequate training for staff? Have you been aware of this study? What are your intentions in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u16	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, I would like to make it clear here that I have specifically asked the President not to postpone your question despite your absence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u17	Minister, excuse me, my train was 42 minutes late because of the presence of cattle on the tracks!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u18	Dear colleague, the minister made a little irony because he had proposed exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see that we can trust Minister Bellot. When he says he's delaying you, he's doing it, even if he's cluttering the tracks! More seriously, Mr. de Lamotte, you asked an important question. But before I do, I have to tell you that I will have to answer some of the questions on our agenda with a lot of numbers, which I think would have been better suited to written questions. Mr de Lamotte, it is essential that the administration can provide quality service to citizens. This is the definition of public service and it is naturally understood that it is available. The results of the survey you are referring to showed, for the AFSCA, that it responds to 100% of telephone calls as well as 100% of emails sent with the average waiting time before the lowest stall, namely 0.11 minutes. This is the best result of all federal governments. Given this availability and these results, it can be noted that the FASA is the number one federal jurisdiction in this area. Key performance indicators are assigned to staff involved in case and e-mail processing, particularly depending on the department in which they work. Answers to e-mails are in principle not reread in order to speed up the handling of questions. However, depending on the complexity of the question, a rereading will sometimes be carried out. The AFSCA is taking initiatives to improve the quality of its services, such as the contact centre "Financing" random outgoing calls are made to callers to judge the professionalism of the reception that our employees have given them. All AFSCA collaborators are assessed at least once a year, as in the federal public service as a whole, notably on the basis of the key performance indicators I have mentioned above. The audits currently under way will, if necessary, further improve the quality of service to the public on certain axes, but, as I indicated to you, the AFSCA is number 1 in this area. As far as INASTI is concerned, it is accessible in several ways, via the reception in its various seats, during the permanent visits to the Pointpensions, by e-mail, by telephone. INASTI has also recently been reached through social networks. Of course, it is important to be in tune with modernity in order to further increase this availability and useful exchanges. According to the survey to which you refer, 50% of calls to INASTI would not have been received. This may be surprising, but an in-house analysis shows that this is based on a technical problem that sometimes arises when it comes to receiving certain anonymous telephone calls. These "unreceived" calls represent only a limited percentage of these incoming anonymous calls. As the survey was conducted on the basis of an anonymous number, the results were indeed biased. INASTI therefore makes every effort to solve these problems. It should also be noted that the policy of INASTI is to call back in the event of a missed appeal. But since these were anonymous numbers, it is of course difficult to recall them. This also refers to the "biased" aspect of the results. According to the second quarter 2017 statistics on calls to the Pension Service, received through call center 1765, INASTI responds to 96.41% of calls. It should also be noted that the number 1765 proposed by INASTI is free of charge. With regard to e-mails, all INASTI operational services apply the same standard, which is included in the administration contract: respond to 95% of requests for information within 30 days. This period is therefore stricter than that laid down in the Social Insurance Charter, which proposes a period of 45 days. According to the recent mid-2017 report, the average time for the effective processing of e-mail information requests was 9.26 days. With regard to the regular evaluation of services, these response times are monitored on an ongoing basis and are reflected quarterly in the activity report. Where the results are less good, steps shall be taken to rectify them in the following period. We're always trying to be in a dynamic of improvement. Through the staff evaluation cycle, all INASTI employees are also assessed on an ongoing basis in terms of customer orientation. INASTI ensures, on a structural basis, the continuous development of its staff and has already made efforts that can be described as notable over the past period. In 2016, there were 3,509 training days, an increase of 1,712 over 2015. The quality of the services offered by INASTI is crucial to supporting self-employed workers as part of their social status. One of the objectives of this majority is to relieve them of a series of administrative harassments that can be linked to them and to strengthen the quality of management of their files, as well as, of course, the quality of the information provided. Mr de Lamotte, the improvement of services to the public is continuing. Thus, the statistical call centre application that existed only for the telephone calls of the Pensions Service will be deployed for all operational services, thus optimizing these evaluations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answers and for the statistics you provided me on the two jurisdictions that depend on your jurisdiction. There are, of course, other questions. I will question the other ministers on the basis of their specific competencies. There's still the problem of mail. We talked about the phone and the e-mails; I imagine the mail has to follow the same standards. I am pleased to learn that training is appropriate and that there are no specific deadlines imposed on employees, but that these deadlines are still relatively short. It remains the problem of the quality of response to applicants. In addition, did you not fail to send me the document I had requested from you concerning Gembloux's study?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u21	Mr de Lamotte, I have instructed my office to send you the document before the end of the meeting, if it has not already done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u22	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u23	Question No 21001 by Mrs Véronique Caprasse is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u24	According to the Neutral Union for Self-Employed (SNI), based on figures from INASTI, about one out of six self-employed persons, or 15.3 % of the total number of self-employed persons, received monthly incomes of less than €1,115 in 2016, the European poverty line. According to the NIS, the proportion of self-employed persons primarily with incomes below the poverty line has changed very little in the last decade, from 15.7% in 2006. According to the same union, there are still too many self-employed people who are not sufficiently trained in finance, but this would be mainly a consequence of the very limited social protection they receive. The SNI therefore calls for an extension of the current bridge to unemployment benefits for the self-employed and for an allowance from the first day in the event of illness or incapacity for work. The legislation on incapacity for work of self-employed persons stipulates that an independent person, in the event of incapacity for work for serious physical or mental disorders, shall receive allowances only from the second month of incapacity. Minister, can you provide us with recent figures on the number of self-employed people living below the poverty line? What is the distribution of this number between self-employed men and women? What do you think of the proposals made by the Neutre pour Indépendants Union concerning the extension of the right to unemployment benefits for the self-employed, in particular with regard to the granting of incapacity for work benefits from the first month of the sick leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u25	Mrs Galant, this is an important question. As we know, independent life is far from easy. According to a study carried out by the statistical service of INASTI in 2016, the proportion of self-employed persons who are primarily affiliated and have incomes below the European poverty line amounts to 15.6%. In this analysis, the statistical service is based on the following parameters. The target group consists of self-employed persons who are affiliated primarily (without the helpers). Revenues taken into account are those in the count year minus three years. Finally, the incomes retained are those known below the European poverty line. The criterion used to measure the risk of poverty is the 60 per cent threshold of the equivalent median net income. They are therefore aimed at income poverty. This percentage of poverty, which is comparable to the income poverty line of the Belgian population as a whole (15.5% for 2016 – 2015 income), is certainly significantly lower than that observed in 2006. The rate then stood at 22.7%. However, this remains a matter of concern, even if we are moving in the right direction. This obviously fully justifies the reforms carried out by the federal government, by this majority, in order to improve the social status of the self-employed. I will recall a number of measures we have taken recently. Maternity leave has been increased, with no payment of social contributions for the quarter following delivery. Indemnities have been introduced in the event of bankruptcy or termination for economic reasons. We put in place a bridge right, which some compare to unemployment benefit, which the self-employed did not want. When an independent person finds himself or herself in this situation, he or she has access to a replacement income. This is obviously essential. It's a safety net. This allows the self-employed to recover. This offers a second chance. And above all, it is a support in particularly difficult times. Maternity and disability allowances, as well as the minimum pension for self-employed persons, have also been increased. I would also like to mention the reduction of the waiting period and the extension of the second pillar of the pension, as well as a measure recently taken, which introduces new contribution thresholds. We have reformed the system at the threshold level. Why? Finally, to allow the self-employed to pay their contributions according to the income of the year, and not the year n-3. Because when you're independent, farmer, one year isn't the other. Here too, we allow, in many cases, not to wait several years to be reimbursed. It is essential to stick to the year and real income. There are also other measures. We will continue and take stock at the end of the legislature. As far as the financial aspect is concerned, we will speed up the procedures for exempting contributions. The automation of contribution waivers also serves as a bowl of air, in justified cases. Other measures will have to be taken; I am working on them. These provisions help to improve the situation of self-employed people who are confronted with financial situations resulting from a decline in their turnover, a cessation of activities, a health problem or a complicated family life. It is well known that an independent person does not dare to get sick, but our measures are aimed precisely at supporting him. In the future, it will be necessary to go further and narrow the gap with other occupational categories. Mrs Galant, be assured of our determination to continue on this path. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u26	Minister, thank you for the steps you have already taken to improve the social status of the self-employed. Be aware that we will support the initiatives you will continue to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u27	Mr President, Minister, in September 2017, UNIZO investigated access to justice and alternative dispute resolution in more than 400 entrepreneurs. The survey looked, among other things, at the possibilities that entrepreneurs themselves see to improve their access to justice. Twenty-three per cent of respondents indicated that the procedures should be shorter, 16 per cent indicated that they wanted clearer information on the course of the procedure and 14 per cent wanted more information on its cost in advance. For entrepreneurs who did not consider alternative dispute resolution, 70% indicated that they are not sufficiently familiar with mediation and arbitration and therefore prefer the classical settlement in court. A lack of information therefore appears to be a constant feature of the investigation. My questions are as follows. How do you assess the above figures and the demand of entrepreneurs for more information on dispute resolution? Do you see opportunities for better information and training of entrepreneurs in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u28	Mr President, Mr Janssen, I agree with you. I am well aware that it is not obvious for SMEs to go to court. I have taken note of the problems mentioned by UNIZO in her research and I share that concern. In order to improve access to justice for SMEs, I defended in the Court the draft law amending the Code of Economic Law as regards the extension of the scope of the collective recovery claim to SMEs. This draft law was adopted at the plenary session on 22 March. As a reminder, the purpose of this law is to facilitate access to justice and to set up an objective, fair and rapid procedure. In particular, this text provides that the parties must endeavour to reach an agreement. Most of the claims for collective recovery that have so far been made for consumers have been settled by mutual agreement without the need for a court to intervene. In the future, therefore, this should also be possible for SMEs thanks to the change that has now been approved. Group representatives will inform SMEs about the questions they are struggling with according to UNIZO's research, such as costs, duration of the procedure and complexity. In general, I want to protect SMEs better together with the Minister of Economy because they are often in a position of weaker party. For this reason, a number of other adaptations to the Code of Economic Law are under preparation. In fact, clearer legislation should also be able to reduce the number of disputes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Indeed, SMEs need to be better protected. I hear that, in addition to the draft law adopted on 22 March, you have a number of other initiatives in the pipeline. We're really looking forward to that. Questions will probably be asked about this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u30	Mr President, Minister, this year there has been an increasing number of accidents in agriculture. These recurrent accidents are the result of several factors. First of all, for technological reasons, the machines used are ageing and therefore more dangerous, especially when the farmer works alone, which is often the case in our country. Secondly, for reasons related to the farmer's own occupation; it is a stressful and tiring profession, which greatly impacts the safety conditions of these people who have to manage both life and technology. This is all the more true since they do not necessarily receive training in order to effectively master these new technologies or do not take enough precautions when using them. Similarly, accidents involving animals also occur regularly. Minister: How can you assess the overall safety of farmers since 2014? How has it been able to evolve in recent years? Do you consider that there is a specific safety problem associated with this profession? How do you think about this, in coordination with the relevant regional ministers, improving the lack of safety for agricultural workers? Are financial or other incentives available to encourage the renewal of agricultural machinery? Similarly, what do you think about farmers' lack of training in the safe and optimal use of their work tool?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u31	Thank you, Mrs Galant, I know your sensitivity, I know that you came from a rural area of Hainaut, like me, and I understand your question. You have had to face certain concrete situations in your community life. The safety of farmers is, of course, an important point of attention. As we know, agriculture has always been associated with difficult working conditions. There have been technical revolutions in the sector which, fortunately, have reduced heavier efforts. However, there is still a lot of work to be done in this profession. These technical revolutions have also led to the emergence of many new risks to the safety and health of workers in the agricultural environment. According to the 2013 SPF Employment brochure "Agricultural Tractor Safety: Risks and Prevention Measures", more than 75% of accidents at work in the agricultural sector were caused by five main causes: animals – as we know – falls of height – probably less known – simple falls, machinery and tractors. There is a federal programme launched in 2001 – Preventagri – with the financial support of the European Social Fund and the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. Its objective is, in particular, to raise awareness of the prevention of accidents at work. You were talking about training in the field of accidents at work, but there are also psychosocial risks such as stress, diseases which affect in particular professionals in the Belgian agricultural and horticultural sectors and the development of support and training structures for these problems on the basis of the study of the evolution of the problems which farmers experience or live in. The Preventagri project consists of four components whose competences have been transferred to the Regions for several years. The Regions are working on these aspects: awareness-raising, training, research, interventions. The training component is currently guaranteed by the Walloon Mission of the Green Sectors in the Walloon Region and het Instituut voor Landbouw in Visserijonderzoek in the Flemish Region, who give lectures in the schools and also carry out risk analyses in direct contact with the operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u32	Minister, thank you. It is a matter that affects us and accidents are still regrettable. Let us hope that awareness-raising will have the desired effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u33	Minister, in the autumn of 2017, Poperinge discovered a nest of the Asian hearer, an invasive species. After five reports it is clear that the Asian hearer has found Flanders. The insect is one of the greatest enemies of beekeepers and of agriculture. He eats hoverflies and wild bees, while bees fertilise fruit trees and crops, and they still need to be protected. Because the nest was discovered so late, perhaps hundreds of queens have spread in the region. Experts say that this exotic species will no longer disappear from our environment, as it reproduces very quickly. Are you aware of the problem? Can the government take measures to combat the problem as effectively as possible and therefore protect our bee population and agriculture?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u34	Mrs Gantois, I am aware of the problem of the Asian hearing. It has also appeared in Belgium since the end of 2016. I am, of course, also aware of the possible consequences of the presence of that alien species. The species, which originates from Southeast Asia, appears to have been accidentally dragged into the Bordeaux area in 2004. She continued her march towards the north at an average rhythm of 60 kilometers per year. The first litter was found in Belgium in 2016. The first beehouse attacks were reported in 2017. The competence in relation to these problems belongs in part to the Federal Minister for the Environment, as regards the aspect of the introduction of IAS or Invasive Alien Species outside Belgium. In this context, I also refer to the Federal Bee Plan 2017-2019, signed by the three federal ministers responsible for the Environment, Agriculture and Health respectively. That aspect is a focus of attention. The risk of invasive species such as the Asian hearer is real. In order to avoid risks associated with the introduction of these predatory species to our domestic bees, the federal government is taking control measures in particular. Official controls are necessary to prevent the accidental introduction into the European Union of exotic invasive species of concern for our biodiversity. These controls are, of course, carried out in close cooperation with the Regions, which are responsible for preventing and exterminating the Asian audience on their territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand that tackling the problem is a shared competence and that we can therefore take joint action. The invasion is actually a real threat. After all, almost nothing works to fight the Asian hearer, one must discover the nests as soon as possible and then completely destroy them. That's the only way. Would it not be useful to carry out an information campaign together with the Regions? One must destroy in the right way, so that the hearer does not spread further in Flanders and Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u36	Mrs. Linen, you've arrived. Thanks to the flexibility of the President, you can now put your question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u37	Mr President, thank you for your improbable flexibility. Minister, unlike what is often adopted, our agriculture is increasingly operating in a globalised market. This is accompanied by a steady decline in the agricultural subsidy share in the European budget, which is currently around 38% and tends to 33% by 2020. By comparison, in the early 1980s this share was at a rate of 72%. Moreover, subsidies have been completely reoriented. While they used to be used to encourage production, with butter mountains, milk and wine lakes painfully resulting, they are today more focused on job broadening, Pillar 2, and conditional income support through Pillar 1 aimed at greening and sustainability. The current Common Agricultural Policy expires in 2020. However, it is expected that, as a result of the Brexit, there will be a delay for a new CAP. The Brexit will have particular repercussions on European policy, as the United Kingdom was a net contributor. It is expected that some EUR 3 billion less money will be available for agriculture, representing almost 5% of the total annual agricultural budget at European level. The negotiations on the new CAP are therefore difficult, especially for fisheries, as the majority of Flemish catches are made in British waters. The biggest unknown is the question of whether we are in a situation where the UK will impose additional levies on our agriculture and horticulture and on our fishery products. In your policy paper, you focus on a number of crises that have hit agriculture in recent years. However, the fundamental problem in this area is about arming our farmers against such situations, in particular by allowing them to adopt a customised business model and to carry out risk management, including by taking weather insurance, which, moreover, can be financed with PDPO money from pillar 2 of the CAP up to 65%. These are regional issues, but as a spokesperson for Belgium, you can also contribute to the drafting of an adapted policy. In your policy letter, you express your slight disappointment at the European Commission, which has only provided medium-term solutions, but which has not addressed the Belgian proposals for action in the short term. Minister, I have a number of questions for you. Do you have any concrete indications of possible postponement of the new CAP 2020 as a result of the Brexit process? If so, when is the new CAP expected? The government has established a Brexit cell within the Department of Foreign Affairs. What is the voice of the agricultural sector in this? Are calculations made of the potential impact of the Brexit on Europe's agricultural budget and on our sales of agricultural and horticultural products? How do you see the future CAP evolving, and in particular Pillar 1, direct income support? What measures do you see as necessary so that our farmers can cover themselves against crises? In your policy letter we read on page 17 at the bottom of the rather cryptic description that the government at international level advocates the introduction of a certain number of mechanisms, safety nets to avoid dysfunctions in agricultural markets. What are we supposed to do about this in concrete terms? What mechanisms are we talking about? What concrete medium-term solutions has Belgium proposed to Europe? Why did Europe not want to go into this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, you have asked a lot of questions. I will try to give a brief but precise answer. The Brexit will, of course, have an impact on the Belgian agricultural and agri-food sector, as will many other European countries. The reasons for this are, on the one hand, the impact of the Brexit on the European Union budget and, on the other hand, as you know, the importance of the British market for the export of our agri-food products. Belgium's position on the multi-annual financial framework after 2020 will be determined in consultation between the Regions and the Federal State. Belgium argues in favour of maintaining the budget in the future Multiannual Financial Framework beyond 2020. In any event, the new CAP will have to guarantee farmers the income needed for the profitability of their farms and provide an efficient policy for crisis management. Negotiations will start at the end of 2018 and will continue in 2019. A new CAP will have to apply from 2020. As you just mentioned, a Brexit cell was set up in the Department of Foreign Affairs. This cell attaches great importance to agriculture. In addition, the regional agricultural representatives were consulted on several occasions. On 29 November 2017, the main lines of the CAP post 2020 were set out by Commissioner Hogan. Modernisation, administrative simplification, the need for a CAP that takes greater account of the environment and adapts to European climate warming objectives are the main objectives. Finally, the Commission wishes to increase the resilience of European farmers to the risks of price volatility, climate and phytosanitary crises. The Belgian position on the first pillar will be determined by the Regions. I think it is important to implement the recommendations of the Agricultural Markets Task Force, which were published in 2016. We need to move towards greater transparency and efficient risk management measures. I therefore believe that the European Commission should be proactive in this. Belgium had already proposed in the past to make the European milk and meat observatories more than merely passive instruments. Crisis thresholds should be set, which should be linked to these European observatories. The aid mechanisms could then be activated once these thresholds have been reached. I hope that other Member States will support this proposal in the coming months in order to make it work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your very specific answers to my specific questions. In the Brexit cell established in the Department of Foreign Affairs, there is therefore no specific voice actively present. However, there has been consultation with the Länder. I agree that Europe must take a proactive stance on this issue. We support you on this point. I will look closely at your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u40	Minister, you rightly stressed in your policy paper the importance of agriculture for our economy and as an indispensable link for our food autonomy. The decline in the number of agricultural holdings by about 40% over the last 15 years is a fact, but it should not be misguided to conclude that fewer farms also mean less agriculture. On the contrary, the agricultural area has fallen by a small 4% over the last 15 years. This means a scaling-up of the remaining companies, which also generate high production due to their high degree of specialisation. Flanders in particular is characterised by an intensive agriculture and horticulture, which also poses greater challenges in terms of ecology and sustainable production within densely populated and spatially fragmented Flanders. The positive side of the story is that the production process provides a high added value to our external trade balance, of which Flanders' share is 82%. In addition, the whole food industry must be charged. It has now become the most important employer in Belgium and continues to grow in both Flanders and Wallonia. It is also a very export-oriented sector, with as an example the frozen vegetables and potato industries, which are real world players. A figure example speaks volumes: the potato processing company Agristo started in 1988 with an annual turnover of 40 000 tonnes of potatoes. At present they are 700 000 tonnes and in a few years the group hopes to match the million tonnes. It only adds to the importance of chain consultations. The crises in the pig and cattle sectors have shown the usefulness of chain consultations. Even though it was not always heartfelt and sometimes difficult, it is necessary for agriculture, as the last link in the chain, to be able to count on a certain degree of solidarity from the rest of the chain in order to achieve viable farms. Farmers cannot be expected to be burdened with all kinds of social claims concerning nature conservation, animal welfare, food safety and food quality, while they are subject to high volatile market prices and cannot count on any compensation for their social tasks. It is a good thing that you emphasise the objective of transparent market forces. Correct and up-to-date figures are crucial, but I would also like to point out that the provision of figures is only a start. It is important to use this information to strengthen the position of farmers. I think it is important to underline that. The chain dialogue and sector organisations also have an important role to play in this regard. There is no point only taking note of a low potato price if farmers do not take the initiative to partially refocus their production on other species or vegetables, in order to increase added value. In this context, I would also like to mention the recent lifting of sugar quotas since October 2017. It would be awkward for sugar beet growers to proceed immediately to a sensitive increase in their area. Experience in the milk sector shows what price reductions can lead to such interventions. I have a number of questions, Minister. What initiatives are you taking to strengthen the farmer's position as a producer in the chain? Will you monitor the proper functioning of the chain consultation and, if necessary, intervene in time to facilitate the consultations? In what way do you help to ensure that the market not only has up-to-date figures, but that this is also used constructively for farmers to play briefly with their production? Will you pay particular attention to the sub-sector of sugar beet growers with regard to information and awareness so that their income is guaranteed in the medium term and not for short-term gain and thus risk abrupt market disruption? Will consultations take place on this matter with colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture who are competent in the sub-areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u41	Mrs. Lijnen, from my arrival it was my goal to meet all the actors. That's how I wanted to listen to their questions and focus points. I will continue the dialogue with them. I believe that the European Commission should implement the recommendations of the Agricultural Markets Task Force, but also integrate them into the next CAP. Moreover, I remain in consultation with the Minister for Economic Affairs, Kris Peeters, and at the disposal of the chain talks. At the moment, however, I have not received a single formal question. You will then mention the role of the Belgian Prize Observatory. This is indeed an independent instrument which carries out the necessary analyses of price margins and the functioning of the market. For example, in January, the Price Observatory presented a report on the beef market. This information will then be used by the sectors to negotiate prices. The price of beet will depend on several factors in the medium term. I am thinking in particular of the price of sugar, the use of first generation biofuels and also of the future sectoral agreements between the representatives of the beet growers and the two sugar refineries of our country. I have a meeting in Ghent tomorrow with the representatives of the beet growers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u43	Mr President, Minister, the growth of SMEs is being confirmed and even strengthened. Indeed, it has been observed by the SPF Economy a trend towards a steady increase in the number of SMEs since 2015. Thus, with an increase of 4.18% compared to 2016, we reach the figure of 899 223 SMEs in 2017. This is the strongest growth since 2009. In all areas (liberal professions, industrialists, businesses, automobiles), this growth is unequivocal. It has, of course, been reflected both in employment, with an increase of 0.72%, especially in micro-enterprises, and in bankruptcies. About 9,000 SMEs have closed their doors. For the third year in a row, these bankruptcies are substantially decreasing. However, three problems remain. Firstly, a still large number of bankruptcies among SMEs despite this decrease. Secondly, because of their low level of export, about 4% of SMEs export. Thirdly, women's entrepreneurship could be further strengthened. Mr Minister, it is clear that, thanks to the measures taken by the government - the tax shift, the reduction of employer social contributions... - SMEs are now much more robust and job-creating. The current record is more than satisfactory. However, how do you explain the still large number of SME bankruptcies? What do you think are the main causes/reasons? Which sectors are most affected? How much do you want to reduce the number of bankruptcies by the end of the legislature? What is your goal? What about exports? What are the reasons for the low export rate of our SMEs? How do you expect to improve the attractiveness of our SMEs to increase this rate? Finally, with regard to the representativeness of women in entrepreneurship, how can women turn more to this sector and to the creation of SMEs? What can you tell them to encourage them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Galant, I will reply by quoting a number of figures, as your question asks. This makes it possible to make a precise point on the situation. Since 2008, the year of the banking and financial crisis, the number of bankrupt SMEs has increased steadily until 2013, when 11,680 SMEs went bankrupt. Since then, the number of bankruptcies has been steadily decreasing. For example, 9,134 bankrupt SMEs were recorded in 2016, according to the latest official figures, compared to 9,728 in 2015, a decrease of 6.11%. I would like to point out that, while the number of bankruptcies is decreasing, the number of businesses created is increasing. In 2016 we reached an absolute record in terms of business start-ups: more than 91,000. In 2017, according to Graydon, this last record was again beaten, with the creation of more than 95,000 companies. Despite this, bankruptcies are declining. Of course, we can analyse this decrease in the number of bankruptcies and this increase in the number of business start-ups. The main reasons for this downward trend - it must be said - are, of course, linked to a resumption of economic growth. It's obvious. There is also an improvement in the business climate, seen through various confidence surveys among Belgian entrepreneurs. We have therefore given confidence to businesses and this is obviously fundamental in terms of economic dynamics. Measures have also been taken, as you know, to facilitate investment. I am thinking of the measure that provides for 2018 and 2019 to exempt, for investment expenditure, no longer 8% but 20%. These are, of course, signals to businesses, and it is clear - and this is clearly our view - that the battery of federal measures, particularly tax shift measures, have led to the reduction of bankruptcies and the creation of so many businesses. But we must not rely on these results. It is necessary to continue, because while the useful policies have been implemented, as we know, Belgium has also suffered, some sectors more than others, from the attacks of 22 March. This is still being felt today. It is not surprising that accommodation and catering are among the sectors most affected by bankruptcies, as are trade, motor vehicle and motorcycle repair and construction - although the latest figures are more favourable to this activity - which are the top three. Again with regard to bankruptcies, we will have to analyse the data in a differentiated way. The law that came into force last summer allowed several professional categories to benefit from legal protection in the event of bankruptcy. Similarly, the liberal professions will soon be able to make use of it. You are also asking me about exports, an activity that is essential for businesses. According to 2014 data provided by the National Bank to the SME Observatory, 43,660 SMEs - 30,226 micro-enterprises, employing fewer than 9 employees; 10,759 small enterprises, employing between 10 and 49 employees; 2,675 medium-sized enterprises, employing between 50 and 249 employees - are active in the export of goods. Goods exported by Belgian SMEs are mainly destined for the countries of the European Union. With this kind of statistics, we realize how important the European Union is in our economic dynamics. In 2014, around 95% of SMEs reported intra-Community deliveries and 27% of SMEs shipped their goods outside the European Union. The value of all goods exported by our SMEs amounted to more than 108 billion euros in 2014. The internationalisation of our companies requires a development logic that must be based on relatively large financial resources. We will return to this in the context of a question asked by Mr Janssen: in 2018 we will organise a roadshow at national level for all our companies, with various stakeholders concerned with the problem of financing SMEs. You are also asking me, and you are right, about female entrepreneurship. This can be seen with statistics on self-employed and SMEs: there are more and more women entrepreneurs. As you know, the plan for the promotion of female entrepreneurship, which was launched in March 2016, includes a number of innovative measures to encourage these women, who are creating wealth and jobs, to take the step towards entrepreneurship and the creation of SMEs. One of the flagship measures is to strengthen the social status of independent women by enabling them to make their entrepreneurial lives more compatible with family life. An example of this is the measures we have put in place regarding maternity leave. This maternity leave is flexible. It was essential for independents to be able to choose when to activate their leave. This maternity leave is supplemented by the possibility of using 105 service vouchers. This is a measure that I was able to present to you at the end of last year. Finally, on 20 October 2017, following a public call, four projects led by women's networks were selected to receive €70,000 in support for the next three years. There is a whole series of activities. All this is very rich. If you wish, I will transmit to you the agendas of the activities carried out by these women entrepreneurs so that you can meet them if you wish, and that you can get to know the details of the projects they defend in the context of the promotion of female entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u45	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u46	Questions Nos 22359, 23642, 25091, 25201 and 25309 by Mr Smaers have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM) has recently called for a fairer treatment of the self-employed with regard to their family life. For a majority of self-employed workers, it is difficult to reconcile work and family life. As is well known, the obligations for self-employed workers are such that even if they have maternity leave, for example, they must nevertheless work during maternity leave. Although in many respects the status of self-employed and the status of employee is increasingly harmonized, especially as a result of the measures taken by this government, they still diverge on other points. For example, for self-employed persons, paternity leave does not exist and maternity leave is less than that of employees (12 weeks instead of 15 weeks). For this reason, the UCM recommends that, in order to improve the lives of self-employed persons, maternity leave should be extended, flexible and paid parental leave should be introduced, and the month of deficiency should be abolished. On these points, you have already undertaken many just and necessary reforms in favour of the self-employed. They have greatly facilitated family life and their working lives. I am thinking in particular of the much more flexible maternity leave, the family allowances that have been equalised, the status of close caregiver and the reduced INAMI waiting period. I know that you always have in mind the concern to facilitate the lives of the self-employed, and I welcome that. However, what do you think of the recommendations made by the Union of Middle Classes? More specifically, do you think that the harmonization of maternity leave between employees and self-employed persons is necessary and feasible? You have already introduced many flexibilities in this area. Does it seem to you to be essential to introduce flexible and paid paternity leave for the latter category of workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Galant, I confirm that improving the reconciliation between the private and professional lives of self-employed workers is one of our priorities. It's very important. As we observed during this legislature, the maternity leave of self-employed workers was extended to 12 weeks and the possibility of taking the optional period of part-time maternity leave was granted to them. We have had the concern and desire for flexibility in order to find a better compromise between organizational needs related to the continuity of independent activity and family-related needs and aspirations. In addition to the now semi-automatic grant of maternity assistance, a dispensation of payment of social contributions for the quarter following the quarter of childbirth has recently been introduced. We have also reduced the waiting month to 14 days and thanks to family allowances and close caregivers, we have supported a dynamic whose aim is to enable, through the social status of the self-employed person, to promote his or her privacy. In 2015, a single assistance benefit for the self-employed was introduced when he was obliged to discontinue his activity in order to stay with his spouse, child, cohabitant or a relative or allied up to the second degree seriously ill or with his disabled child under 25 years of age. This is the "close helper" measure essential to these situations in which the family faces major difficulties. This human measure helps the self-employed in a number of situations. It is, of course, always possible to improve things and we are working on them. These areas of improvement are mainly reflected in an ongoing communication on all these existing measures. Social insurance funds are on the front line, in contact with workers and self-employed workers, to pass on all the information on this subject. As part of the 50-year campaign on the social status of the self-employed, an interactive platform called "improver" was precisely set up to communicate even better and collect a number of ideas from the self-employed in order to feed the experiences of the field beyond the ideas of politics (parliaments, ministers, communal elected officials). It is a question of seeing on the basis of daily life, experience and experience, how to further improve things. You are right, I want to correct a number of inequalities experienced by the self-employed. I'm thinking about paternity leave. I am working on a measure to put such a leave in place. There is no reason why self-employed persons are not entitled to what other occupational categories are entitled to. By the end of the legislature, I hope to put into practice this measure that I am currently preparing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u49	Thank you, Minister. Be aware that we will support you to this extent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u50	This is a rather old question, which I had tabled in July, which had to be postponed once, and which concerns the individual rights of workers, particularly self-employed workers. It is a rather technical question but has very practical consequences. Article 37 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 1967, which organizes the social status of self-employed workers, provides for three cases in which persons can contribute as supplementary self-employed persons, but with the consequences that this entails: this category of contributors does not enjoy any right to social benefits. All this is not very right when we see that the former are precisely persons who have derived rights, that is, most often, in reality, married persons whose spouse is employed or self-employed. We are facing double discrimination here. On the one hand, by married persons, women must be understood in this case. It is often they who choose this option and who suffer it because, when they separate, they no longer have any rights and even if they return to work, they do not have a pension entitlement for the years concerned. Thus, some are very surprised at the age of pension to see a 10, 20 or even 30-year-old hole in their careers because as long as they do not give up this option, this Article 37 continues to apply. On the other hand, derivative rights are required to benefit from this status. But only married people benefit from it. Minister, I would like to have the figures that would allow us to claim equal treatment, whether we are men, women, single, married, single or cohabiting. So, in order to get an overview of the situation, could you provide us with the updated figures since 2012 of the people who have benefited from this status and their evolution since 2012?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u51	Mrs Gerkens, your question was so old that, when the President asked us to wait for you, I could not resist for a second the desire to answer you, in order to avoid getting him to become older again. From the outset, I must recognize its technicality. I want to play the game, but it seems to me that, for this reason, it should have been the subject of a written question. I'll give you the picture I brought earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u52	Minister, for the record, this was initially a written question. Maybe that's the explanation for his strange journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u53	You want to turn it into a written question? No, it was only a blunder: I am naturally sensitive to your question, despite its technicality. Given its importance, your approach to putting it orally in committee is therefore entirely justified, especially since it concerns people with very modest incomes. The benefit of Article 37 § 1 of the Royal Decree of 1967 may still be claimed by certain categories of citizens, such as married persons, widows and widowers. Until December 31, 2016, the scheme also targeted students under the age of 25. As you know, however, they have, since January 1, 2017, the status of student entrepreneur. In concrete terms, this provision allows a spouse of a person with full social status to pay reduced or no contributions, while benefiting from the majority of social security benefits. This provision shall be applied only upon request, because of the very low income of the person concerned, and after the latter has been duly informed by his social insurance fund of the consequences of benefits, in particular the absence of rights in respect of incapacity for work. The spouse then benefits from the derived rights arising from the status of his or her partner. For example, entitlement to benefits under a compulsory sickness and disability pension and insurance scheme in the health care sector, at least equal to the social status of self-employed workers. However, there is no entitlement to benefits on the basis of a right of its own. Thus, the beneficiaries of Article 37 are entitled to a pension at the household rate, which is why this scheme is only available to married persons, widows, widows and not to cohabitants. This difference in treatment is based on an objective element, namely the possibility of establishing a pension. With regard to the statistics requested, as I have indicated to you, I will give you a table which gives an overview of the evolution over the period 2012-2016 of the number of persons benefiting from Article 37, § 1, broken down by civil status and sex. As at 31 December 2016, of the 20,445 beneficiaries of article 37, 18,394 were married persons, 16,410 women and 1,984 men. Total number of beneficiaries has decreased by almost 3,000 since 2013. These statistics cover all the situations referred to in Article 37(1). Students entrepreneurs who enjoy their own status are obviously no longer included – as I mentioned earlier – since 1 January 2017. The figures for 2017 are partial and provisional at this stage and therefore do not allow a breakdown by marital status. So, Mrs. Gerkens, these are the things I can give you. I'm going to ask for the chart to be transmitted to you shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for providing me with these figures. But you do not intend to amend the provisions so that these people can benefit from or grant themselves pension rights? Indeed, there are co-inhabitants. But if the couple separate, once they reach the pension, the former cohabitant obviously loses the benefit of those years, which have been years of benefits and career. I am of course interested in having figures, but I also wanted to show the extent of the phenomenon and to point out that we are witnessing serious discrimination. Essentially against women, but not just because there are still applications from 1,600 to 2,000 men. So, I was hoping somewhere that you would correct the situation so that no one would be penalized when they took their pension after a separation. This was the subject of the arrangements we had made for assisting spouses, etc. We are gradually improving the situation. I would then like to encourage you to identify how to improve the device in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u55	Minister, the findings of the study conducted by the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM) show that 40% of self-employed workers, with some economic confidence, would like to employ at least three more people in the next three years. In other words, self-employed people assume they want to expand their economic activities. This automatically translates into a much stronger intention to hire staff, creating jobs and growth for our country. However, self-employed people are still too often hesitant to opt for a first job, despite the reductions in contributions. The second crucial lesson of this survey is that although start-ups and other innovative and flexible activities should be encouraged, a significant part of the jobs to be created lie in the traditional sectors. The spirit of entrepreneurship is crucial to the success of small and medium-sized enterprises, but there is also a need to consolidate existing jobs. Minister, the results are encouraging and reflect the government's concrete action in favour of the self-employed, who are the basis of our economic fabric. Is the study conducted by the UCM consistent with the numbers of your administration? Has the level of self-confidence in their activities increased since the beginning of the legislature? How do you see that? With regard to hiring intentions, we know that the government is already promoting first hires through a reduction in social contributions. How could the government, in the same way, increase the incentive for our self-employed people to hire? Our country's economic strength is to combine the modernization of our sectors and the strengthening of traditional sectors. Do you think this concept is the most relevant in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u56	Ms Galant, in her study, the UCM indicated that almost 4 out of 10 independents – based on a sample of 250 of its affiliates – are ready to hire. The findings made here by the UCM are obviously not representative of the Belgian situation since the study covers only the Walloon and Brussels capital regions. The signal given is nevertheless extremely interesting. We can link up with another of your questions about SMEs. The National Bank's April 2018 monthly survey indicates an increase in the confidence of business leaders and independents in April, confirming an overall upward trend in recent years. That said, too many self-employed people who could develop their activities may still hesitate to hire a first worker. However, at Belgian level, if 28,266 jobs have already been created by the zero contribution measure, this represents only two thirds of the first commitments. This result is encouraging, but we still need to do better. We want to see the first employers better accompanied in the face of this provision. It is therefore to reach all new employers that a "first commitment" communication campaign will be launched in the coming weeks. This campaign will, on the one hand, make it possible to inform small businesses again about the advantages they can enjoy when hiring their first employee and, on the other hand, it will insist – and this is essential – on the simplicity of the procedure. We wanted to simplify procedures and make life easier for those who want to engage. To carry out this campaign, no less than 50,000 euros have been released. This will include promotional spots, a general information leaflet, posters for potential partners and social media announcements. Mrs Galant, this is the important information on this subject. We will ensure that information is disseminated to those who want to engage in taking action that the government has put at their disposal. A new campaign is about to be launched to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u57	Minister, thank you. Indeed, the simplification of the procedure seems important to me as well as the measures taken to encourage the engagement of the first person. It's a good thing to remind him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u58	I am also counting on representative organisations such as the UCM. Everyone must take their part in order to disseminate the information that serves their members.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u59	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, since June 1, 2016, it is possible to obtain the craft label from the SPF Économie. This title may be awarded only on the basis of certain criteria and conditions which, in particular, may be registered with the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises, have a structure of less than twenty workers and, above all, exercise its activity in an authentic, manual and traditional manner. This label is crucial for some artisans because, through it, it is the credibility of their work that is highlighted. Thus, this measure has helped to promote our crafts, our gastronomic traditions, our manufactures, etc. Those who benefit from it ensure that it is a security for their employment. However, they would like the effort to continue with measures at the fiscal level or to reduce social laws. Mr. Minister, you said that it was too early to consider such measures and that the time was especially ripe for an assessment of the Artisan Act. Can you, as a first step, remind us of the official figures of persons enjoying this status since its entry into force in 2016? How has it evolved since then? When this law was introduced, was there a numerical goal of the government? Do you think the three conditions for granting it are too restrictive? Do you intend to expand these conditions or maintain them as they stand? How does your administration plan to evaluate this legislation? What criteria will you consider useful in analysing the situation of artisans? Could you provide an update on this evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u60	Thank you, Mrs Galant, for your question. You're asking me to go back to the numbers. Since 1 June 2016, 1,422 artisans have applied for approval. The Artisan Commission took 870 positive decisions and 441 applications were refused. This status of the craftsman has been set up to protect the craftsman. When there is a refusal, artisans obviously have the opportunity to appeal the negative decision of the Craftsmen's Commission to the Craftsmen's Council. Twenty-nine applicants filed such an appeal and 13 applicants received a positive decision. In this way, I consider the appeal procedure to be a balanced procedure, since applicants are satisfied. As of December 2017, the total number of accreditations was 889. Meanwhile, at its last meeting on 16 April, the Artisan Commission recognized the thousandth craftsman. There are now more than 1,000 recognized artisans in our country. On the occasion of this thousandth craftsman, I had the opportunity to get in touch with many of them. Their reactions to this status and its content were very positive. The government has not set a specific target for the number of artisans to be approved. When the Act came into force on 1 June 2016, some 260,000 companies were registered with the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises as artisanal or non-commercial commercial companies under private law. Not all of these enterprises fulfil the conditions necessary for the official recognition of artisans. It is up to the Craftsmen's Commission or, possibly, the Craftsmen's Council to examine whether the firms concerned meet the conditions laid down by law. If we rely on the processing of the files by these two bodies, we can consider that the criteria for registration in the Banque Carrefour des Entreprises and the number of employees are reasonable and objective. The number of refusals, on this basis, is limited. Our will is to protect the true artisans. At this stage, I am not considering a statutory amendment. The vast majority of the refusals are directed against undertakings engaged in craft activities combined with others which are not. These are retail trade, large-scale production and wholesale trade, which are therefore outside the legal scope. The Commission and the Crafts Council consider, as I do, that approval is impossible in such cases, since this would obviously ruin the credibility of the approval with the customers in search of genuine craftsmanship. An evaluation of the law is under way. I will naturally take into account the opinion of the High Council of Independents and SMEs, delivered last November. I suppose you'll understand that I'm not going to anticipate the conclusions. In the meantime, the SPF Economy will continue to recall the possibility of recognition as a craftsman and the benefits that flow from it. In addition to the radio spots broadcast on the occasion of Artisan's Day, a promotional film has been filmed to support a campaign to be conducted on social networks this year, both for artisans and the general public. The aim is the same: we would like to draw their attention to the existence of this label and the register of craftsmen published on the SPF Économie website. There is therefore added value linked to this label. In due course, I will communicate to you, if you wish, the elements of the evaluation as soon as it is completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u61	Mr. Minister, I would be interested to know these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u62	We shall return for a moment to items 11 and 13 of our agenda, which relate to Ms Jadin's questions. Dear colleague, I note that you wish to turn your question No 22149 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u63	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, entrepreneurship in Belgium is doing well and an increase of 8% (7,206 units) has been observed. However, if our businesses are growing in number, they are not particularly large. Since my question was tabled six months ago, things may have changed significantly; you will tell me. At present, eight out of ten SMEs do not have staff, which does not really favour the economy and employment. To foster the emergence of large Belgian companies that have a role to play on the world stage, the Beyond initiative was launched by the Pulse Foundation. In collaboration with Agoria, EY, lmec, Sirris, We Connect Date and Universem, Beyond is looking for the best Belgian technology scale-up to become global players. Mr President, I should like to make it clear that I had previously addressed this question to Minister Peeters, but that it was finally redirected to you. Minister, have you ever seen any results from the Beyond initiative? Are accompanying measures implemented to enable Belgian companies to rise to the international stage? If so, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, let me first make a correction. Indeed, I am not Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u65	Not yet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u66	Mr. Chair, Minister, my error is due to the fact that my question was addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Peeters, but it was redirected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u67	Ma'am, I'm glad to answer your question. As you said, entrepreneurial dynamics are positive in terms of business creation. It should also be recalled that we are in the process of surpassing all the records in this field. We had already reached a record in 2016 with more than 91,000 companies created. In 2017, more than 95,000 companies were established. This is the result of the context we have created for investment and economic deployment that is revealed in the figures. But, as you rightly raise it, we must be attentive to the development of these enterprises. Creating them is one thing; developing them and ensuring their survival is another. We must indeed welcome the Beyond initiative of Pulse Foundation, which focuses in particular on the development of our start-ups. This development requires internationalization, which is why the development of SMEs abroad is one of the federal government's priorities and one of the six areas of work of the SME Plan. In order to take action in this area, it is necessary to develop the identification of Belgian export performance, with a view to integrating key indicators into the barometer of SMEs and independents. It is this famous barometer that allows us today to take much easier the measurement and even the pulse of our companies and our independents. I intend to integrate these various aspects into the next editions of the SME Scoreboard, in order to have an essential factor for our companies, namely the export aspects. This will enable us to strengthen this tool and make information even more decisive. At this stage, it is not yet possible to analyse in detail the current phenomena and the impact of the initiatives taken in this area, both at the level of our policies and at the level of remarkable private initiatives, such as the Beyond initiative. In a very concrete way, the federal government offers companies wishing to deploy internationally a range of initiatives grouped with the public export credit insurer, Credendo, Finexpo and the Agency for Foreign Trade. Credendo offers credit insurance, guarantee and financial guarantees to companies wishing to obtain a new line of credit as part of their international development. Finexpo, for its part, is intended to propose a panel of financial aid to eligible exporting companies (stabilisation of interest rates, interest subsidies, mixed credit, etc.).). The External Trade Agency also publishes "country studies" available free of charge online. That's interesting. This allows companies to study the markets in which they plan to work. I would like to draw your attention to other dimensions of the Federal Plan for SMEs, which you know and which was implemented by the government in this Parliament. They should support the development of SMEs, particularly as regards international development. I am thinking in particular of the initiatives taken to support investment and financing of growth projects. The measures we are talking about, taken with regard to growing companies, are extremely important. The investment deduction measure, taken for 2018 and 2019, exempting investments from 8% but 20% is a major measure for a developing company. The same applies to the tax shelter for scale-up, which allows, as was developed for start-ups, to accompany and facilitate the financing of growing companies. We have a large number of small businesses in Belgium that are extraordinary, but we see that, in order to enable them to grow, obstacles remain. We believe that this new measure will help them. There are also alternative financing measures such as those we have taken in terms of crowdfunding. We must call on companies to use all these measures that we make available to them. Mrs Jadin, these are the elements of content that I wanted to provide in answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u68	Minister, thank you for this excellent, very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u69	Colleagues, the flexibility of the President also applies to the timing of responses. We are timed, but I remain flexible with regard to the answers given to parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u70	Mr President, I wish to turn my questions Nos 23382 and 25178 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u71	I take note of this and we thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u72	Mr President, I wish to turn my question No 23379 into a written question. In addition, I would like to see my question No 24401 in item 48 of the agenda now dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u73	Colleagues, can you grant this request? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u74	Mr President, Minister, in the context of an ever-increasing digital revolution, many companies are inserting a digital strategy into their operations. For example, physical stores are increasingly developing their hangers online: an online shop where customers can place their orders directly by a simple click. However, it must be noted that, for various reasons, some do not yet integrate all the potential offered by the development of the digital economy. Today, it is essential to include, in all aspects of a project, a real digital strategy, with points dedicated to digital and e-commerce: e-advertising, e-commerce, social networks, e-invoicing, websites, innovation, application, etc. The government intends to combat the digital divide and to maximize the use of ICT in everyday life. For our companies, it seems necessary that they master the arcanes of digital disruption in order to maintain a high level of competitiveness and attractiveness. Minister, can you give an estimate of the independents and SMEs who have implemented a digital strategy in their project? What support can be provided to the self-employed and SMEs in the development of such a strategy? Is there a demand for this from the self-employed and SMEs? What are you proposing to help them best integrate digital into their business?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u75	Mr Friart, this is a very important question that you are asking here because there are real challenges in this area. If we want our companies to emerge from the perspective of the future, they need to rely more on digital to grow. SMEs must succeed in their digital transformation. It's a necessity. Those who do not do so risk, for a certain category of them, simply disappearing. Making it possible for SMEs to seize the opportunity to benefit from the multiplier effect of the platform economy in order to develop their business is essential, as is filling the skills gap in digital technology. Improving SMEs' access to finance through the development of FinTech is essential. We are therefore taking steps in this direction in terms of exemption for digital investments. We need to see them take advantage of the digital leverage to boost their internationalisation, but also to be fully accessible to customers in the Belgian market. Watching only by the magnifying glass of the internationalization of markets would be a mistake. Customer habits change. In this respect, the OECD indicators for Belgium are simply worrying. While the penetration rate of digital in enterprises is one of the best in OECD countries, it is on a rather low international average for SMEs alone, which means clearly a competitive imbalance of SMEs compared to large foreign firms or competitors. You know that in digital matters, there are no more borders. There are no borders. The awareness of traditional actors is therefore an urgent matter. The need is immense. We believe that it is possible to have significant leverage effects through targeted actions without having to deploy pharaonic budgetary resources. We have some examples. The main players in the new economy offer tools at the disposal of SMEs to enable them at least to have an online presence and, at best, to ensure their adaptation to the digital age. These giants have Belgian antennas which, we are convinced, would be ready to support accompanying actions. The FinTech revolution must be put at the service of SMEs. It affects the payments, credit or other financial services sector and allows SMEs to design their relationships with the bank in the form of a service. Let us also consider the phenomenon of lending platforms that allow borrowers and lenders to meet with flexibility that a traditional lender cannot always offer. The need for SME security in the face of cyber threats is obviously another issue we are working on. But it is not yet sufficiently taken into account by a number of SMEs. Some SMEs in the digital age are still not adequately protected. We need to see our SMEs innovate in this area. It's obvious. That is why I have instructed my administration to make proposals and I have already set aside a budget to develop actions in this area. I hope, by the end of the legislature, that I will be able to take further steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u76	Minister, thank you. I note that the OECD indicators are very worrying about our country. For our companies, these are essential development axes. I understand that you are going to take exemption measures with respect to digital investments. That seems essential to me. Finally, I note that you are going to draw up budgets in order to carry out actions in this area, which – I am sure – will only be in favour of our SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u77	Mr.President, Minister, since January 1, 2017, students have been eligible for independent status on more favourable terms. This status allows young people between the ages of 18 and 25 to continue their studies and to pursue self-employment in parallel. The exercise of this activity is not subject to social contributions below a certain income threshold. In addition, independent students will be liable for a reduced contribution on the portion of income that exceeds this threshold. The tax system for this advantageous status is based on that enjoyed by job students, both schemes being placed on an equal footing. This system allows more flexibility, unlike a paid student job. In addition, it offers the opportunity to carry out an activity that corresponds to the student entrepreneur, an activity which he or she can adjust according to the work he or she has to provide in the course of his or her studies. Minister, do you have any figures on the total number of independent students in Belgium? What are your observations about their evolution? What are your plans to encourage more students to engage in independent activity alongside their studies? What channels of communication would be preferred? Do you think it would be appropriate to survey students on how they perceive this status and what would encourage them to benefit from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u78	Mr President, Minister, at the beginning of last year a more favourable status for student self-employed people was introduced in our country. This further stimulates the entrepreneurial spirit of students. They can benefit from a favourable rate on social contributions and the status also offers advantages in the tax field. Now that the more advantageous statute is in force for one year, I have the following questions. How many student self-employed do we have in our country right now? How does this number relate to each region? How do you evaluate the statute one year after its introduction? Do you or do you not foresee adjustments to existing legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as of 31 December 2017, there were a total of 5,008 independent students: 2,947 men and 2,061 women. This is remarkable, and it is beyond any prediction in this area. This status has exceeded all expectations of its attractiveness. It continues to be successful: compared to the previous quarter in which there were 4,495 independent students, there was still a sharp increase of 11.41 per cent (513 units). Young people are embarking without restraint and with great enthusiasm on this new status. At present, the distribution of the number of student entrepreneurs by region is not yet available. The social insurance funds are certainly the first source of information, both for their members and for students who would be interested in the new statute. They use their own channels, their own website, their newsletters and social media. The website of the FPS Social Security and the Social Security Portal also contain a number of detailed FAQs on the subject of student-entrepreneurship. Moreover, my services have been in regular contact with the higher education institutions since the entry into force of the measure, so that the deployment of this new statute can take place as smoothly and uniformly as possible. As you know, this status was introduced on 1 January 2017. It is, in my view, still too early to draw conclusions other than that of its success. It will obviously be necessary, as with any new measure, to provide for an evaluation. At the end of the first academic year, in September 2018, we should be able to benefit from fully representative figures and thus draw the first conclusions. The assessment of the status, as well as the returns of both students and actors in the field via social insurance funds and educational institutions, will have to be taken into account in this evaluation, which will obviously have to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u80	Minister, the figure you quoted is really impressive. It's important. Indeed, it can be very training for a student who has the opportunity to join concrete, work in company, to his studies. This experience will make it easier for him to enter working life, to take initiatives and responsibilities at the end of his studies more quickly. We can therefore only welcome the proper functioning of this statute, hoping that it will continue to develop in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u81	Minister, the figure speaks volumes. We have not only taken measures to enable everyone to become self-employed; we have also taken measures to ensure that the status of student entrepreneur is so successful. I look forward to the evaluation at the end of the year. We will then see how we can proceed with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u82	Minister, I have recently asked your colleague the Minister of Economy about the failure of some night shop operators to comply with the regulations on closing days and hours and the display of prices. In view of the magnitude of the problem, the latter had asked the Economic Inspectorate to carry out an investigation. It was found that between September and December 2016, of 344 controlled outlets, 234 were in breach: 44% of them for non-compliance with closing days, 36% for non-compliance with closing hours and 33% for breach of price rules. 17% of the controlled stores did not even have closing days at all. Minister Peeters informed us of the preliminary results of a new investigation conducted between April and December 2017: 132 reports were submitted and 119 investigations were conducted. As a result, 5 warning minutes and 49 pro-justitia had been drafted. This is still more than 40 per cent again. These figures are quite challenging in that the sustainability of this situation is detrimental to smaller, more scrupulous traders, who are penalized competitively compared to those who do not comply with the rules. It is also a concern for the tranquillity of a part of the population in view of the problems of the neighbourhood that often involve violations of the provisions concerning closing hours. The penalties contained in the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in commerce, crafts and services provide for a prison term of between 1 month and 1 year and a fine of between 2000 and 80,000 euros. The court may also order the closure of the establishment. The ceilings are therefore relatively high. However, given the limited human resources of the Economic Inspectorate, the risk of control is apparently not sufficiently dissuasive. An interesting avenue would therefore be to involve the municipalities more closely in the fight against these offences. However, they can only punish offenders by means of administrative sanctions with a ceiling of EUR 350, which is a derisory amount in view of the turnover of these businesses. The new municipal law also provides for the mayor to close the establishment in case of non-compliance with the municipal regulations relating to operating permits and establishment limits. It may also enforce such a measure in order to put an end to public safety, health or tranquillity disorders. In the latter case, the act must be taken with strict respect for the principle of proportionality. The municipalities, which are nevertheless the first level of the public authority, are therefore confined to the two ends of the spectrum of possible sanctions, namely a fine of a few hundred euros or the pure and simple closure of the establishment. Mr Minister, I would like to know what you think of the opportunity to give the municipal authorities greater power of coercion in respect of the observance of the hours of operation of night shops through higher fines. If you are in favour of it, what is the most appropriate bias: an amendment to the Act of 24 June 2013 on communal administrative sanctions or a revision of the Act of 10 November 2006 mentioned above? If not, what steps do you intend to take to put an end to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u83	Mr de Lamotte, the problem you are talking about is well known to me, and I am particularly sensitive to it. I am very attentive to the nuisances caused by night shops, which do not always respect the opening hours. As a result, their officials violate the principle of fair competition between retailers in the distribution sector. This phenomenon too often has as its corollary neighbourhood disturbances, or even breaches of public order, particularly in terms of security. It is therefore not without reason that the Act of 10 November 2006 on opening hours in shops, crafts and services was revised in 2016. The aim was for a municipality to be able to take over in some cases to impose hours of night closure on shops located in seaside resorts and tourist centres. Until the entry into force of the revised provision, these businesses could open 24 hours a day. Having said that, in order to answer your question about a possible adaptation of the above-mentioned law, it seems to me useful – if not essential – to ensure that we hear all the stakeholders: Comeos, UNIZE, SNI and UCM. In this regard, I will soon be inviting these organizations to reflect with them. I will consult them on whether or not to amend the legislation in order to resolve the persistent problems that you have identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you will take language with the partners concerned. I may see this as an opportunity to enter into a partnership with Parliament on possible hearings, as this problem is likely to spoil the climate in some neighbourhoods or in some municipalities. This situation should not be allowed to go to sleep because it could lead to problems of social and other cohesion. To involve Parliament in this process would be positive. I am thinking in particular of the Committee on the Economy. Minister, thank you for the signal you gave. There is the 2006 Act, but there are also communal administrative sanctions. We must therefore see how we can play on several levers because I do not think there is a single answer to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u85	Mr President, Minister, you have recently stated your willingness to give more rights to SMEs, particularly with regard to business law and access to public procurement. Indeed, you have pointed out two important problems in these matters: on the one hand, the abusive clauses that smaller companies, dependent on larger companies, have difficult to refuse, and, on the other hand, the fact that these companies cannot appeal to the Economic Inspectorate in the event of unfair practices and have no choice but to consider a lengthy and costly trial. You have indicated that you wish to amend the Code of Economic Law to remedy these difficulties. Furthermore, you have expressed the wish to make available to SMEs an IT portal on which they can register and indicate their preferences for obtaining public contracts, and which would alert them when a public procurement corresponding to their profile opens. Minister, can you provide us with figures that would tell us about the situation of SMEs in abusive terms? Is this a recurring phenomenon in our country? How many cases have they already been reported? Can you provide an overview of the changes to the Code of Economic Law that you wish to implement, the discussions with stakeholders, their claims, the possible timetable? With regard to the IT portal, have you planned an agenda for its implementation? How many SMEs do they obtain such markets annually? How many would you like to see this figure increase as a result of the introduction of such a mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u86	Mr President, Mrs Galant, this is a matter of great concern to me. It concerns the situation of SMEs suffering from unfair terms. This practice is not yet regulated in Belgian law. Cases in which SMEs are victims of unfair terms are not reported or detected. It is therefore impossible to produce figures relating to this situation. But it is not because these situations are not detected that they do not exist. They do exist and are one of my concerns with a view to ensuring that our SMEs have an appropriate code of economic law. While the vast majority of Belgian companies are SMEs, there are very few provisions for them. This Code is therefore applicable today to businesses – whether large, small or medium-sized. I would like to place SMEs at the centre of attention and identify ways of improving the SME Code. Indeed, it seems to me that we could – and this is what I am currently studying – draw on a number of foreign experiences relating to the abuse of economic dependency. Competition law currently allows only for the regulation of unlawful cartels or abuses of absolute dominant positions. There is no provision for the protection of SMEs whose activities depend on a trading partner, which, in a number of cases, is in a position to impose disproportionate constraints on them. Another avenue for reflection is on unfair terms in market practice law. These are now outlawed in the relationship between a company and a consumer. They are therefore perfectly lawful in business relations, which may seem surprising given the current situation between the company and the consumer. Until recently, SMEs and public procurement, too, did not necessarily go hand in hand. A study was carried out in 2016 at the request of the federal authorities on SMEs' access to public procurement and, on the basis of a statistical analysis of Belgian public procurement between 2009 and 2015, a number of conclusions emerged. The first observation was that large companies are raising a large part of public procurement with a high contractual value – which is not surprising to you – so that there is, so to speak, little left for small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, newly created enterprises, start-ups were under-represented as direct participants in public procurement in comparison with their share of all SMEs in Belgium. A number of factors that impede SMEs' access to public procurement have been identified: too much administrative burden; too long delays; lack of information or knowledge; and too much complexity in public procurement. It was realized, even if it was anticipated, that it was complicated for a small company, in terms of human resources, to untie specialists overnight for markets that were too complicated. Stimulating SMEs to participate in public procurement also means supporting job creation, growth and innovation. But first, it was necessary to ensure that this was better adapted to the needs of SMEs. That is why we have amended the legislation on public procurement. This reform has led to the development of new principles. First, the allocation that enhances competition is expanded. The issue here is the possibility for SMEs and specialised SMEs to access markets which, if not, would remain the preserve of businesses. With the allotment, the market is divided into lots, small parts. This naturally becomes more accessible to small and specialised SMEs in certain areas of the global market. Secondly, the threshold for accepted invoices increases to €30,000. Thirdly, the use of the electronic system which reduces the administrative burden on SMEs wishing to participate in a public procurement is introduced. All measures will be monitored to see whether certain provisions need to be further adapted in order to increase the effectiveness of these measures. This monitoring will therefore be important. Finally, I proposed a charter consisting of thirteen principles. It was adopted last January by the Council of Ministers. It complements the reforms I have just mentioned by ensuring that all companies have the same opportunities for access to public procurement. A deepening of this charter will be carried out gradually, through substantive additions, on the basis of consultation with the representatives of the various sectors. There will therefore be a "chart+" for SMEs, but also for sectors with specific public procurement needs. The question of establishing an IT portal for access to public contracts falls within the competence of my colleague, Steven Vandeput, in his capacity as Minister responsible for the Civil Service. Indeed, the Strategy and Support SPF, which hosts the e-Procurement platform, which allows contracting authorities and companies to easily and quickly access the various applications relating to the procedures for public procurement transactions, is its responsibility. But I made sure he was aware of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u88	Minister, a measure proposed following the SME plan of 25 January 2015 concerned the so-called road shows for SMEs. Initially, they would have as their primary objective to familiarise SMEs with the benefits of internationalisation and what comes into play. In response to a previous question, your predecessor replied that the issue of internationalisation would be taken into account in a broader context of training of entrepreneurs on the instruments specifically made available to SMEs. This broader form of education or road show would take shape at the end of 2017, early 2018. Do you have a specific calendar for the road shows for SMEs? Which partners are involved in the preparation of this? What subjects will be dealt with there?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u89	Mr Janssen, SMEs are not yet sufficiently informed about the instruments and the private and public offerings relating to financing in the broad sense. They often delegate that activity to external experts. That sometimes causes high costs. The road show fits into a much wider spectrum than just the internationalisation of SMEs. Many themes related to the financing of SMEs will be addressed. I would particularly like to propose the new law, which amends the 2013 law on SME financing. In particular, it concerns information to SMEs, the framework of collateral and guarantees and the reinvestment fees. The mechanisms of the SME tax shelter for start-ups and growing companies will also be discussed, as will the award services for SMEs and bank and alternative financing. The internationalisation of SMEs will also be discussed. The event will be organised in partnership with the chambers of commerce, UCM, UNIZO, (...) and IZEO. Experts from Credendo, from the FSMA, from the crowdfunding platforms and from the administrations will also be involved. The raodshow will start in September 2018. I am, by the way, awaiting the finalisation of the rating simulator. This instrument, which I will soon make available to SMEs, is intended to assess in a theoretical way the robustness of the credit applications that an entrepreneur wishes to submit to a bank. It would be ready in the next few weeks. You can be sure that I will provide you with the necessary information as soon as the precise agenda is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is very good that you are making sure that it is not just about internationalisation, but that you are looking at it in a broader context. We look forward to September 2018, when we will start. We will therefore follow up the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u91	Mr President, Minister, the Unified Patent Court is the result of an agreement between 25 signatory Member States and would result in more effective protection of the patent. This protection is important to protect companies operating internationally from property theft. Following an earlier question on this topic, your predecessor argued that the Unified Patent Court would be operational by the end of 2017. My questions are as follows. Is the Unified Patent Court now operational? Are the competences of the Unified Patent Court included in the information to SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u92	Mr President, Mr Janssen, as you know, the reform of the European patent system consists of two parts. Firstly, the European patent with unitary effect and, secondly, the unified patent court. The regulations on the European patent with unitary effect entered into force on 20 January. On the other hand, the application of the regulations and the start of the Unified Patent Court depend on the date on which the Unified Patent Court Agreement will enter into force. However, it will not enter into force until 13 of the participating Member States, including France, Germany and the United Kingdom, have ratified it. While today the UPC agreement has been ratified by 16 participating Member States, including France, it has not yet been ratified by Germany. However, it is not excluded that the UPC Agreement will enter into force by the end of 2018 in order to open the way to a unified patent law. You are also questioning me about informing SMEs about the powers of unified patent law. Users of the patent system in Belgium will be given close access to the UPC by setting up a local branch in Brussels. The website of the FPS Economy will provide more information about the powers and functioning of the UPC. Organisations and companies will also be informed by the Intellectual Property Council. Several organisations, such as UNIZO, UCM and VBO, will be represented in that Council. The European level includes the cost programme aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of SMEs, which is also a measure aimed at improving access to unified patent protection for innovative European SMEs. This will be achieved in particular, firstly, through the establishment of the Coordination Office, in order to ensure the proper functioning of patents, and secondly, through financial support for both the registration costs of European patents for innovative SMEs and the insurance costs for patent disputes and, finally, by providing information on the commercial use of patents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It was a good answer and I'll go over it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u94	Mr President, Minister, we were learning, through the figures from the SPF Economy, that more and more self-employed people continue to work after exceeding the statutory retirement age. This number also increases in the case of employees who wish to continue a professional activity through a complementary self-employment activity. The numbers speak for themselves. Since last year, an additional 6,000 independents have decided to continue working. Since 2009, this number has almost doubled to about 100,000 at present. The reasons for this are obvious. There is, on the one hand, a steady increase in the average life expectancy of Belgian citizens and, on the other hand, a better health of people aged 60 to 75 than in previous decades. There is also an economic reason: the end of the annual income cap for pensioners. Minister, this increase is a good thing for both our economy and our pensions. However, some feel that this is done at the expense of younger generations of self-employed people. How do you respond to these criticisms? Are they justified? Are the two generations really competing? What are the main areas of professional activity of these self-employed persons? Are these professional retentions also beneficial for job creation? Do you have figures in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u95	Mrs Galant, the figures quoted must be received in a very positive way. We are talking about people who continue to produce wealth and participate in the entrepreneurial dynamics of our country. In terms of entrepreneurship, as elsewhere, you are right: it is not appropriate to oppose generations. He was seen earlier in a question by Mr Friart and Mr Janssen on young independent students entrepreneurs. Having made arrangements to allow people to continue working while accumulating their pension income with work is not an obstacle to having excellent figures at the level of student entrepreneurs. Generations should therefore not be opposed. Sometimes the simplistics of some lead to it. Wealth is created. She's not uniform. It can grow according to the dynamism of all generations. We must not see this as a threat to the independents. Each category benefits from its experience. This can be of a professional type for seniors and in the field of new digital tools, for example, for younger ones. Having said that, I obviously remain attentive to support the dynamics of student entrepreneurs but also the Starter measure for the self-employed who are starting. Paradoxically, this measure has been developed with a youth-centred mindset, but it is realized that there are quite a few quinquennials who use this measure to embark on self-employment. The conclusion is that generations are not opposed but are often complementary. As regards the sectors of activity, the data compiled by the SME Observatory Data and Analysis Service on the basis of the 2016 data published by INASTI show that senior self-employed persons are mainly active in the following three sectors: trade (33.5%), the liberal and intellectual professions (26.6%), industry and crafts (19.6%). My administration does not currently have figures on the number of jobs created by these senior self-employed people. It might be interesting to look at this aspect in the context of the INASTI programme aimed at measuring certain elements and developments concerning the self-employed. I will ask if this is possible in the future. Support should be given to maintaining these activities after the legal retirement age. It's obvious. Any activity, even if restricted and carried out in an individual capacity, is always beneficial for individuals, but also for our economy as a whole. Indirectly, these activities are also likely to increase job creation and knowledge transfer. It's important. Thank you for this question, Mrs Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u96	Minister, thank you. I fully agree with you that we must not oppose generations and that the experiences of some can be of benefit to others.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u97	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, your administration has been very effective with regard to false foreign independents. Indeed, for the year 2016, 800 of them were cancelled for fictitious affiliation. Both posted workers and foreign self-employed persons now have an obligation to complete the Limosa declaration. This Limosa statement, you want to strengthen it particularly in relation to the sectors at risk. Any foreign employee or self-employed person will be obliged to declare for whom he or she works, when, how long and where. At the same time, you have referred to the will of a Europe where the free movement of persons must combine with fair competition. However, Europe's social and fiscal harmony is slowly being built. Minister, we support your willingness to strengthen this sector, which is being abused. Can you first remind us how many foreign independents are present in our territory? How did this figure change during the legislature? In which sectors of our economy are they predominant? On average, how long do they stay in Belgium? What foreign nationalities predominate? How do they spread in our country? How much do they contribute to the Social Security budget? Similarly, how high is their impact on our economy in terms of growth and employment? Can you develop your vision of Europe and how it should work differently in your eyes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u98	Mr President, Mrs Galant, this is an important subject. The free movement of workers at European level is a subject to which I am committed as a liberal. We must ensure that this free movement of workers is not diverted from its original vocation for the purpose of social dumping and unfair competition. The Limosa Declaration is a statement made to ONSS. Since 2007, it has allowed inspection services to know who works, where and for how long. INASTI recorded, on the one hand, the number of foreign self-employed persons subject to tax in Belgium and, on the other hand, the total figures of the A1 returns received for foreign self-employed persons active in Belgium. As you know, an independent person who has to complete a Limosa declaration is not necessarily subject to Belgian social security. These are, for example, independent service providers who come to work temporarily or partially in Belgium. The scope of the Limosa declarations is therefore broader than that of the A1 declarations. In addition, an independent can make several Limosa statements per year. This explains the difference between the number of A1 returns received and the Limosa returns. With regard to the number of Limosa statements, it should be noted that it has remained stable since the beginning of this legislature. The monitoring of the Limosa data bank, however, enabled INASTI to see a slight shift in practices with regard to A1 declarations. Thus, there is a shift from secondment to the simultaneous exercise of an independent activity in several Member States. So it's not just about us. As of 31 December 2016, there were among the non-Belgian independents subject in Belgium, and I quote only the leader of the platoon: 23,450 independents of Romanian nationality, 16,612 Dutch, 12,919 French. In order to better measure these figures, I would point out that in Belgium there are almost 1 100 000 independents. Independents of Romanian nationality are mainly active in the construction industry. The Dutch and French self-employed are mainly involved in trade. As regards the distribution by province of these three nationalities, it can be seen that most of the persons of Romanian and French nationality are present in the Brussels Region, while most of the Dutch nationals who are subject to Dutch nationality in Belgium are concentrated in the province of Antwerp. It should be noted, however, that the geographical distribution of taxable persons is based on their domicile or the address indicated, which do not necessarily correspond to the place where the professional activity is carried out. Declaration A1 concerns Polish, Dutch and Slovak nationals in descending order, and to name only the three main countries of origin. As I said, if the free movement of workers is an opportunity, a chance, or even a necessity today, we must naturally be realistic and be aware that we will not be able to build a social, fiscal, coherent Europe until certain rules of the game are respected. So we must ensure that we have a free movement system that is not a turbo for unfair practices. In Belgium, we have a strong social status for the self-employed. No doubt, according to the information provided to me, one of the best social statutes at European level. But this one can only benefit those who respect the rules of the game. That is essential and we must ensure that. It is in this sense that last March the European Commission gave us its green light. That wasn't the case before. I had to have a long discussion with them, so that they would allow us to impose a Limosa declaration on self-employed workers from another European Union country coming to Belgium as part of a posting. In order to comply with European law, it will apply to self-employed persons in sectors at risk. At first it wasn't possible. We have negotiated in this way for the meat and cleaning sectors, for example. These are areas where fraud is more important. The Limosa will have to be met by these independents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u100	Mr President, Minister, the European Commission has launched its Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) reform project. At issue, the CAP is considered by the Commission to be ineffective and its funding needs to be reviewed because of Brexit. The European Commission's ideas focus on three changes. First of all, it would be a matter of simplifying the system of the CAP itself, particularly as regards the unequal distribution of European aid. Indeed, these aids are linked to the possession of land where a minority of farmers, 20%, receive 80% of the subsidies. In this way, the Commission would like to better target the redistribution of CAP payments by a mandatory ceiling on aid and degressive payments to reduce support for larger farms. Secondly, with regard to an economic sector with an ageing population, the Commission hopes that the Member States will stimulate a profound generational renewal through tax incentives. Finally, it is envisaged that Member States will have more responsibilities. Thus, the Commission would set targets at European level, but each Member State, according to its specific characteristics and its particular national context, will itself define the appropriate way to achieve them. Minister, what do you think of these ideas? Have discussions ever taken place with the European bodies? Is there a European agenda between the Commission and the Council of the European Union for the start of negotiations? What is your analysis of the current situation of the common agricultural policy? What position does Belgium stand in this case? What are your fears? Finally, what impact could this change at European level have on the Belgian agricultural sector if these reforms were to succeed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u101	Mr President, Mrs Galant, I referred earlier to the risk areas in which Limosa would be imposed on foreign independents. In addition to the meat and cleaning sectors, the construction sector should be added, so that the answer is complete. As far as your question on the CAP is concerned, the debates on the CAP post-2020 and its budget are increasingly at the heart of the discussions at the table of the European Council of Agriculture Ministers and at the same time in many meetings. On 19 February the European Council referred to the issue of direct payments, green payments and rural development. Discussions focused on the need for simplification, the possibility of transfers between the first and second pillars, external convergence, coupled support and market management tools. I insisted on this last point. Beyond market aid measures, it is necessary to look for an effective instrument that can be used more quickly in the event of a crisis. At Belgian level, we call for the maintenance of a budget at least as high as that contained in the current CAP, for simplification both in terms of its preparation and its control, and for the strengthening of the function – it is essential – of market regulators by strengthening the current arsenal of markets and other risk management tools. Unfortunately, I must admit, few Member States have mentioned on this last point the need to implement the principle of insurance. Belgium, for its part, and as early as July 2017, had expressed the need to analyse such a mechanism. However, in general it seems that the Member States want more flexibility for the next CAP. As you may know, discussions will be difficult. We see that, throughout the meetings we have at the level of the European Councils, positions are sometimes taken in a somewhat tense way. Some people sometimes take firm positions. Our logic is also to forge alliances with other countries that share our position, defined following discussions with the Regions, which are in the front line. The aim is to ensure that we are not isolated and that we are able to present a position which is not only that of Belgium, but that of a group of countries which will defend related theses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u102	Minister, thank you. We will be attentive to future discussions. The agricultural sector is still in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u103	Mr Minister, Securex has recently carried out a thorough study with Eurostat on the growth of the working population and that of so-called "atypical" jobs, i.e. part-time, temporary, isolated or overlapping jobs as employees and self-employed, but not perfectly either. Several findings emanating from this study are interpelling. First of all, these jobs have seen strong growth over the past ten years compared to the labour force. Secondly, they cover a great deal of amplified diversity with the new technologies and the new economy, the so-called one call or Uberized jobs. Finally, the status of wage earners and self-employed persons has increased significantly over the past five years. They are self-employed who are economically dependent, mainly on a single customer. They currently account for one third of the total self-employed. Finally, the study raises concerns about the precariousness of these jobs, in particular the way in which baby boomers who are about to leave the labour market will be replaced in enterprises. Minister, Securex concludes with a legislative renewal and the introduction of a third statute. What is your overall analysis of the study conducted by Securex? Is the rise in so-called "atypical" jobs good news for you? What are the main sectors of professional activity? Is the finding that 30% of the self-employed are economically dependent on a single customer? Does this dependency weaken these jobs? Are they more likely to go bankrupt or become unemployed? Do you share the fears of a certain precarisation of employment when baby boomers leave the labour market? What do you think of the proposal to create a new status in addition to the employee and the self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs Galant, for this is an important issue. The first step is to draw attention to the fact that the study conducted by Securex goes beyond the scope of independent activity. It deals with self-employment on a complementary basis, the work of self-employed persons who are temporarily or structurally dependent on a single client, but it also deals with the collaborative economy and with certain realities specific to the wage-earning sector, particularly part-time work. The collaborative economy is a reality that must be taken into account given the potential in certain sectors and the positive impact of this economy and its impact on all aspects of the voluntary sector. In my view, the rise in atypical jobs is a reality. I do not know if I would have chosen the term "atypical" but the collaborative economy must meet certain guarantees. Its activities must either be a stepping stone to entrepreneurship, or allow the people concerned to exercise their hobby or even their passion in a number of cases, in a framework that is as clear as possible. In the present case, a combination of several activities does not necessarily imply a situation of precariousness. Moreover, Securex's study shows that much of the people who practice this combination consider it rather as a means of obtaining additional income through a hobby and an activity that stems from their passion. A second essential aspect that must be kept in mind is that these collaborative economy activities must not lead to unfair competition against traditional self-employed and SMEs. We are, of course, watching over it. As soon as this activity becomes professional and generates income, it must be treated as any self-employed professional activity. It is essential to respect the work of the self-employed. The study contains an amazing recommendation that the status of self-employed persons working without an employee, caregiver or partner should be challenged. This is the case for a large majority of them: doctors, lawyers, farmers and artisans work alone. Therefore, there is no doubt as to their status. Therefore, this approach leaves me puzzled. The study then finds that almost 30% of the self-employed have only one client and asks whether, for this reason, they are false self-employed. In this regard, fairly rocky titles, relaying the opinion of a union, were published in the press. This, of course, is a shortcut that ignores the daily lives of many self-employed people. Let us be clear: working alone or for a single client is not an economic criterion for assessing the existence of a relationship of subordination in a professional relationship. It may also be a transitional situation. As the case law of the Court of Cassation points out, the legal criterion defining the concept of a link of subordination is the most relevant, because of its centrality. I therefore believe that those who choose to enter a self-employment relationship - here, without any link of subordination - should be allowed to exercise their activities quietly. Rather than considering providing for a third status in addition to those of employees and self-employed persons, it would seem to me more wiser to clarify, on the one hand, the legislation on the nature of labour relations by bringing it into line with the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation and, on the other hand, to continue to promote the social status of self-employed persons. In recent years, as you know, we have strengthened it, we have improved it. It includes various measures to assist self-employed people who are facing difficulties. I will also highlight here the possibilities for reducing provisional social contributions, which were strengthened on 1 January by the addition of new reduction thresholds: - the possibility of requesting a clearance plan or exemption for contributions; - "Incapacity for work" insurance with the possibility of compensation from the 15th day of sickness; - the possibility of applying to benefit, under certain conditions, from the right of access in the event of cessation for economic difficulties or collective settlement of debts or bankruptcy. This insurance entitles, for a maximum of 12 months, to a financial benefit and to the maintenance of the right to sickness and disability insurance. All this is new, and these are measures that will finally see the independents better supported at the social level. To put an end to the reform of the Posting of Workers Directive, I would say to you that in its current version, the directive does not achieve its objective of combating social dumping, with the result that labour costs are often drawn downwards, as the gap between the levels of social contributions in the various European countries is large. That's the reality. On 1 March 2018, an agreement was still reached with the European Commission. It is planned that the Directive will shortly be amended in order to limit the duration of posting and to introduce a principle of equal pay for a posted worker and a national worker for the same position in the same place of work. It's important. These measures will help to limit the abuse of secondment and will therefore be in favour of Belgian market players, including the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u105	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that this measure is important for those who come to work at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u106	Minister, the consulting firm Ernst & Young recently published a study on the state of mind of Walloon companies and the concerns of Walloon bosses. The first most challenging finding is the fear of Walloon companies to expand their activities internationally. They prefer to stay in their comfort economic zone and work mainly with neighbouring countries. Walloon companies are less attracted to the international market than the average of European companies. The second concern is the lack of implementation of a corporate culture in Wallonia, which would promote risk-taking, innovation and growth. The third finding relates to the usual obstacles to growth: labour costs, lack of labour, taxation and flexibility of staff. Minister, how do you think we need to encourage our businesses to become more open to the international community in order to grow their businesses? What types of companies are more likely to open up to the international market? In what types of sectors? Do you agree with the opinion of this study on the lack of entrepreneurial culture in Wallonia? The government has undertaken many reforms in favour of SMEs, do you think they will have a positive impact on this culture?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u107	Mrs Galant, let us remember that external trade is essentially a regional competence. However, you are right to point out that we can also act at the federal level. Within the framework of federal competencies, I want to support SMEs internationally by making them more competitive and stronger in the conquest of international markets. I can give you some specific measures that we have taken in this area. We must, however, keep an eye on the statistical aspect of your question. At this stage, there is no specific typology for exporting companies. All SMEs are likely to open up internationally. My administration notes, however, that the sectors of activity with the largest number of exporting SMEs are wholesale trade, the food industry, the chemical industry, and the automotive and motorcycle trade. The cultural factors highlighted by the testimony of entrepreneurs in Ernst & Young's study should encourage us to continue on the path we have taken in order to make our businesses more competitive. I will not repeat the list here, but substantial progress is being made. The federal government's drive in this context is to be noted: its progress makes it possible to develop the entrepreneurial environment but also the spirit of entrepreneurship among our fellow citizens. I will not go back to the fact that so many new independent positions have never been created. We've never seen so many new SMEs. The figure of 95,000 in 2017 underscores this reality: we have surpassed all the records. I also believe that the improvement of the social status of the self-employed, which we have already mentioned in this meeting, contributes to this. But I want to answer your question on a number of axes more strictly linked to the international strand: a number of initiatives grouped with the public export credit insurer Credendo, the Finexpo scheme and the External Trade Agency must be highlighted. Credendo offers guarantee credit insurance as well as financial guarantees to companies wishing to obtain a new line of credit as part of their international development. Finexpo's aim is to offer a panel of financial aid to eligible exporting companies (interest rate stabilization, interest rate subsidies, mixed loans, etc.).). The External Trade Agency publishes country studies free of charge online.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u108	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u109	Mr President, Minister, the neighbourhood supermarket is a phenomenon that is becoming increasingly popular in our country. In 2016, their number increased by 4% and in 2017 a market share of more than 30% was exceeded. Neighborhood supermarkets combine the proximity of the supermarket with the extensive supply of a small supermarket. The success also increases the employment that the neighborhood supermarket needs and can offer. For this reason, the NSZ calls for a review of the Sunday opening scheme for the neighbourhood supermarkets. The current legislation allows food shops with fewer than five employees to open a whole Sunday. The NSZ would like to see this limit increased to 10 employees. However, other interest groups such as UNIZO and neighborhood super.be have reservations. They fear a shift from the morning to the afternoon, which would increase costs. They also ask questions about the wage conditions to be attached to the scheme. According to UNIZO, the sector and its employees would not be a requesting party. In a press article, your colleague, Minister of Work Kris Peeters, indicated that he would be open to the discussion and discuss the dossier with you. Minister, what is the position on the NSZ's proposal to increase the employee limit for Sunday openings at local shops from five to ten employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u110	Mr President, Mr Janssen, this is not an easy question. Before answering them, I think it is important to outline the context of the problem. Two legislations are involved with regard to the opening on Sunday of a retail trade. Firstly, the Act on Opening Hours in Commerce, Crafts and Services of 10 November 2006. The middle class organizations were strongly asking for that law. In particular, the law aims to strike a balance between respect for freedom of enterprise, meeting the needs of consumers and respect for the trader's right to private and family life. In concrete terms, this law imposes one closing day per week on each retail trade, which can be freely chosen. The second legislation falls within the competence of the Minister for Labour. It concerns the Labour Act of 16 March 1971. This law lays down the general principle of the prohibition of Sunday work with a view to the protection of workers. Deviations are provided for. The question of the NSZ, to which you refer, has a direct impact on these two legislations. It is not certain that all traders who employ six, eight or ten workers on Sundays want to open all day, for example for reasons of profitability of these few hours on Sunday afternoons. In this way, and in the light of the above-mentioned balance established by the 2006 Act, it seems necessary to me that any question of this balance in advance should be the subject of a broad consensus or a compromise between the representative organisations of the middle classes in the ABC and the distribution sector. Even if such a proposal were the subject of a consensus or compromise, it should be discussed with the Minister of Work, because it could de facto lead to a derogation from the ban on Sunday work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u111	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that there is nothing more to it than that the ministers will sit around the table with the relevant organizations to see if a comparison is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u112	Question No 23379 by Mr Friart is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u113	Mr President, Minister, last November I questioned you about the towering European milk powder stock that is on sale. According to figures from the European Milk Observatory, nearly 360 000 tonnes were then stored for public intervention. We all know very well what the consequences were: the dairy market was under pressure. Today, this problem is still not resolved, with an even higher stock of 380 000 tonnes. At the end of February, the European Commission therefore offered more than 4 300 tonnes of skimmed milk powder for sale at the bottom price of 110 euros per 100 kilos, while the current market price is 137 euros higher. The sector is right to fear that Europe wants to get rid of its large stock at all costs. When I asked for sustainable, forward-looking solutions, you replied that you would like a link to be established between the European Milk Observatory and the automatic activation of production control instruments when a certain threshold is reached in the future. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How was your proposal received? Is there any evolution in this file? What is the exact state of affairs? Are the Commission taking steps towards a healthy dairy market?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u114	Mr President, Mrs Gantois, as you know, I take the evolution of the milk market to heart. The average price paid by the members of the Belgian Confederation of the Dairy Industry in December 2017 was 36.7 euros per 100 litres. Production in Belgium amounted to 3.8 billion litres for 2017. This is therefore an increase of 3.6 % compared to 2016. At European level, production, driven by high prices, is rising sharply in countries such as Ireland (+9.1 % between January and September), Poland (+4.7 %), the United Kingdom (+3.9 %) and Italy (+3,5 %). Although the milk price is rising in Belgium, I note that the number of tonnes of milk powder for public intervention remains very high. According to the latest figures from the European Milk Observatory, nearly 380 000 tonnes of milk powder have been stored for public intervention. This quantity of milk powder is currently threatening the European milk market. I believe that this stored milk powder will have to be brought back on the market very gradually once the situation has improved sustainably. I call for the future link between the European Milk Observatory and the automatic introduction of production control instruments when a specific threshold is reached. We must avoid a new crisis at all costs, such as the one in 2016. This has led to the storage of a large quantity of milk powder in the European Union. At the European Agriculture Council on 29 January last, the Agriculture Ministers adopted the regulation proposed by the European Commission. It reduces the ceiling to zero for fixed-price purchases under public intervention for skimmed-milk powder which entered into force on 1 March. In a note presented on the occasion of the same European Agriculture Council in January 2018, France, supported by Belgium, proposed several measures. All regulatory possibilities were examined. The objective is, on the one hand, to free volumes but, on the other hand, not to weigh on a market so that it would destabilise. France proposes to use traditional offers without fixed prices, but also to find market outlets in animal feed to help the most deprived and to fight against the malnutrition of hospitalised people. I regret that there is no solution at this stage to eliminate that surplus which is the subject of a consensus between the Member States that are members of the European Agriculture Council. Finally, what about the possibilities of exporting that milk? Certain third countries, particularly in Asia, are asking to import more milk, for example because their population is increasing and their standard of living is rising. That's an interesting slope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I understand correctly, we are far from getting rid of these 380 000 tonnes. There is a threat of dumping on the market, a sale at very low prices. However, we must get rid of this stock, because that is a threat to our milk farmers in general. I am very sorry that we cannot find a solution at European level. Long ago we warned that we do not want to go back to the milk ponds and butter mountains of ancient times. The abolition of the quota has not done much good, because the market has not adapted to it. They're all short-term solutions. I think you should keep negotiating. If we want a future for our farmers, for our dairy sector, we will have to work on long-term solutions instead of short-term solutions. I may repeat myself, but I'm encouraged that we're not achieving a decent solution. I can't help it either. I would ask you to keep an eye on this and continue to negotiate with your colleagues so that milk powder stocks do not grow in the future, but that we create and use production control instruments so that we can stop stocks. They only cost money and simply do nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u116	Mr President, before I ask my question, I would like to make the following point. You have tried to work very flexibly. I've been here since 9:30. I had seven questions, of which I will have difficulty getting three answered. Maybe we should work differently. If we move the questions from who cannot be here to the end of the sitting, then the questioners may still come to see their question dealt with. Agenda items 40 and 43 have been dealt with, for example, for this point. We're not here for the farce either. I'm sorry about that. One could reverse the working method and be flexible in this way. Anyway, it is what it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u117	If I can answer: of course, we have a lot of questions, but the last time we were able to ask was in September 2017. There's definitely a lot of them. Several colleagues have asked us to wait for their arrival. Some came and left. Several colleagues have turned their questions into written questions. When there are questions attached, the questions of the absent ones fall. There are not many questions left in the previous part of the agenda. Above all, we do not have time to deal with it. Indeed, we have been working since 9:41. It will be 2 p.m. soon. We are under agenda item 36. It is for this reason that I ask that we be able to set a new date soon enough to deal with the issues that could not be dealt with today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u118	Mr President, of course I am not going to interfere with what has just been said. It's your business. I'm glad I had a long time with you. Apart from that, I would like to point out that if we have not been able to meet more often to deal with oral questions in this committee, it is because we were somewhat busy elsewhere. We've seen each other on a number of files. And there were plans. Mr President, I can tell you at any rate that I hope that we will be able to hold Question Sessions more regularly. You'll only see from the opening on my part in relation to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u119	We're the plaintiffs, Mr. Minister. No problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gantois, I will respond very quickly to the President's proposals in order to hold a further oral question-and-answer session extremely quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u121	Minister, in January you and a delegation from the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain in Beijing had a meeting with the Chinese Deputy Minister of Agriculture. He promised to send a mission to Belgium to inspect the chain of the Belgian white and blue with a view to an export licence to China. That is a step in the right direction. After all, China's distrust of imported food is high, partly as a result of the outbreak of mad cow disease in the 1990s. For example, in 2016 an export certificate was signed after seven years, making the Chinese market accessible to pig heads and bodies. Now you have also obtained an agreement for pig legs, which is very good news. Still, there is a huge export potential for the Chinese population, which accounts for 20% of the world's population, but only 10% of the world's agricultural land. We must try to fill that out. I would like to have an update on the agreement. Is there any prospect of additional export opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u122	Mr. President, Minister, given the decline in our domestic meat consumption, you have undertaken an Asian tour to encourage our international partners to buy our meat, so boost our exports in order to sell our overproduction. You have closed your Asian visit to Vietnam, where the National University of Agriculture of Vietnam, partly financed by Belgium, which raises Belgian pigs of the Piétrain breed, is located. The Vietnamese University is trying, through a breeding and breeding program, to create a variety of pigfish adapted to the country's climate. Minister, we welcome your initiatives to promote our local agriculture and meat. Here we would like more information about your trip to Vietnam. Did the Vietnamese government seem seduced by our meat? How did the discussions take place with your Vietnamese counterpart? What about the discussions for future collaborations between the National University of Agriculture of Vietnam and our universities? What collaborations have been mentioned? When will they be realized? More generally, were you satisfied with your Asian tour?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u123	Mr President, I should like to point out that my question No 24964 in item 56 of our agenda is also turned into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u124	I take note of that, Mr. Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u125	Mr President, Minister, an AFSCA agent will be posted to Beijing this summer 2018. The aim is to further open up certain markets for the export of Belgian agricultural products, including meat, particularly in China, where demand is growing. I can only welcome this opportunity for our Belgian farmers, as the meat sector in Belgium is faced with a decline in domestic sales, since in general the Belgian eats less meat. The same applies to beer. There is also the prospect of free trade agreements between the European Union and Mercosur (Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay) which may see an additional massive supply of meat on European markets. Hence new concerns for our farmers. Minister, I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that my question dates from 28 February, that is, before the Veviba crisis. Minister, beyond the different health rules between China and the European Union, what are the main technical barriers to the export of our agricultural products to China? What are the possible volumes that could be exported to China? Is the mad cow crisis still in the memory of the Chinese interlocutors, 20 years after it broke out? Today, I'm afraid they'll remember much more recent events. What measures, if any, are being taken to convince Chinese people of the quality and hygiene of our products? In addition to meat, what other agricultural products are likely to be exported to China? I imagine there is chocolate in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u126	Minister, as I have just said in my question about your stay in Vietnam, your political action is to improve the export of our meats and therefore our overproductions, in the face of the downward trend in domestic consumption. China, for its part, is experiencing difficulties in meeting its meat demand due to its demographics. Therefore, the challenge is to blow up some locks in Chinese regulations such as the Belgian beef embargo or the health ban related to the mad cow disease of AFSCA. Other countries, such as France and Ireland, have also started a similar process with the Chinese partner. Minister, on these locks, how are discussions with our Chinese partners taking place? What other elements have been mentioned? What positive and negative elements have emerged from your discussions? Chinese and Belgian regulations need to be reformed to allow our meat to be exported to China. What are the main means of action? Do you see any other locks that prevent better cooperation in the sector? In the medium and long term, do you think that exporting our meats to China will become a growing opportunity for our agriculture? What objectives have you set yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u127	The development of our exports of agricultural and agri-food products is a priority and is essential for the majority of the sector. Let us take the example of the meat sector: the level of self-sufficiency in Belgium is 162 per cent. For this sector and for many others, export is therefore a matter of survival. The introduction of health controls to help open markets is a particularly difficult issue for us. In order to speed up procedures and thereby our efficiency, the government released €1.5 million a year in 2016 in support of the AFSCA budget. As you say, Mr Flahaux, it has been decided to send a health officer to Beijing again this year to speed up the processing of our cases with China. The AFSCA Exports Unit informed me that more than 100 cases were being opened with the authorities of third countries. This is a major issue for Belgium. Of course, we continue to explain how effective our health standards are. Their recognition is an essential factor in being able to export. During my three-day mission to China, several ministerial meetings were held, including with the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Food Security. As you mentioned, this country represents almost 20 per cent of the world's population and, therefore, a colossal market. These meetings have enabled us to make tangible progress. Let us be clear: so far, the Chinese simply did not want to address certain issues – and I'm not just talking about beef! We were able to extend the list of slaughterhouses for pigmeat which will be able to export to China. Some operators will also be able to export pig's feet in the coming weeks. A proposal for a protocol for the export of pig's feet was sent to China on 8 April, after receiving a report from the Chinese administration for that category of products on 7 April. About two weeks ago, I met the Chinese ambassador to Belgium, who assured me that he would follow this aspect of the pig file and that he would continue to be one of the actors in the progress of this issue. We have an excellent working relationship and these are elements that count in such cases. As a result of the European Commissioner for Agriculture's visit this week to Beijing at the Shanghai agri-food fair, I asked him on 9 April to examine the possibility of signing this agreement in his presence. This will depend on the Chinese administration, but giving the European Commissioner a mandate to sign this agreement is done to speed things up. I think the time factor is important and I will soon know if the documents have been signed on our behalf in this context. As far as the beef and veal issue is concerned, we had an agreement in principle to reopen the export dossier in China, which was not relevant, while the French and Irish were able to unblock the situation. The situation is therefore also unblocked for Belgium. Since we have received the agreement in principle, a Chinese delegation will soon be going to Belgium with a view to a possible lifting of the "mad cow" embargo, which is still active today. It will be necessary to wait for this visit to draw definitive conclusions. With my firm and the AFSCA, we're following the case very closely. With regard to poultry meat, we have obtained an agreement for an inspection visit by a Chinese delegation by the end of the first half of 2018. This should normally take place shortly. I have also signed a Memorandum of Understanding on Electronic Certification with Mr. Zhi Shuping, Minister of Food Security. Electronic exchange of data on shipments of food products exported to China will reduce the risk of fraud and simplify the work of our administrations. Also during my visit to China, I visited the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, which, I am sure you know, maintains close links with Belgian universities, including Ghent and Liège. During my visit, I was also able to choose on the spot the stand Belgium will occupy at the Beijing International Horticultural Exhibition, which is in preparation and will be organised in 2019 on no less than 900 hectares for 5 months. So it's a very big "Libramont". Mr President, if we want to trade with China or with other countries, we will never remember enough how essential it is to bet on individual relations between the actors and how important it is to be present at a number of events, such as the horticulture fair or the Shanghai import fair in November. Belgium must make every effort to have its federations represented and the sectors that tend to increase trade with China. I repeat that the Chinese market accounts for 20 per cent of the world's population and that living standards are rising. This mission undoubtedly contributed to the progress. As I said, I did not necessarily expect all the results we achieved at the outset. As I said, good preparation work was done with the embassy in Brussels. Mrs. Galant, you're exaggerating by talking about "Asian tour". It lasted five or six days and it was two countries. It wasn't an Asian tour. I do not rule out going back to China by the end of the year, probably to the Shanghai import fair, which is the number one event in China, since the President's event, in terms of import. During my stay in Vietnam, I met with the Vietnamese Minister of Agriculture. As you said, Mrs Galant, there is already a very old collaboration between Vietnam and the universities of Liège and Gembloux. On this occasion, I took in my arms piglets of Pietrain at the University of Hanoi. Collaboration has already existed for some time. We are facing challenges as Belgian development cooperation ceases. Today, Vietnam's GDP and wealth mean that we will cease development cooperation with that country. It is a matter of continuing to work with them on other bases, which we have begun to address. I therefore pleaded, and obtained, an agreement allowing our producers to export our beef and pears. It's effective for pears. For beef, there is an opening that is substantially comparable to what has been done with China. So we are also beginning to talk about the export of beef and veal. So this is great news for the sector. Our delegation was able to visit the University of Agriculture in Hanoi, which has close ties with Belgium, as I said. Following this excellent contact, the Vietnamese minister, in turn, came to Belgium at the end of March. We visited Agro-Bio Tech University in Gembloux together. We also discussed the establishment of a sector-specific strategic partnership for agriculture. This partnership is currently under discussion. I have, of course, ensured that contacts with the Regions can also be made in this context. Work continues in this area. We have increased the number of AFSCA's FoodEx export cell in order to save time. I believe that having someone in place in Beijing to move the issues forward will save us a lot of time in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u128	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for your efforts. We close this morning in beauty. You know, as I do, that the white and blue sector is a sector in crisis, so it is very important for new opportunities to be explored and created. You rightly said that Chinese consumers' purchasing power is increasing. His interest in new foreign products is high and we must respond to that. Ensuring markets outside Europe and looking beyond our noses is a priority. You also mentioned Vietnam. Flemish Minister Bourgeois is present at the moment, with a number of representatives of the agri-food industry in his wake. It would be good to join forces and work together. This will produce a better and better result for our exports, which will only benefit our agricultural sector. I am very grateful to you for your efforts. We know that things are not going so fast, but we can only continue to try and insist. Mr President, perhaps we should organise a mission with this Business Committee, together with the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u129	I take note of your proposal, Mrs Gantois. Might as well finish in beauty! Mr. Minister is open. I'll take note of that. Mrs. Galant, do you also agree with the study trip?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u130	That's right, Mr. President. We can see that this mission has made some progress. Let's hope they succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u131	Mr Flahaux, it is up to you to say the end of this long morning, which continued until the beginning of the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u132	Mr. President, you're too kind. I am delighted with the Minister's response. China is indeed a large market, but it is also the case of Taiwan and Vietnam. We have just received information on the export of Belgian pears to the latter country. This shows how proactive you are, Minister, and I congratulate you on that. We know that there are a lot of niches in terms of quality for our agricultural and processed products. The hard work that has made Mr. Minister's reputation can therefore lead to good results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u133	Mr President, I would like to add that there are important signals and that I am open to associate a few members of the committee, if you consider it desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the end of this question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u135	Mr President, as far as our work is concerned, I do not know exactly where we are, but I imagine that all the issues before item 41 of our agenda fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic892x.u136	With the exception of questions from colleagues who requested their postponement or conversion into written questions.
