ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u1	Question No 25824 by Mr Vanden Burre, question No 25962 by Mr Flahaux and questions No 26163 by Mr Flahaux and No 26357 by Mr Crusnière are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the legitimate protest of the prison officers against your minimum service project during your visit to Mons prison has obscured the debate about the real reason for your visit, namely the outdated Montois institution. I have asked you several times to raise your awareness of the difficult working conditions of the staff of Mons prison. In addition to understaffing and overcrowding, prison officers must work in an old, narrow building with inadequate equipment. As for detainees, their situation was difficult. They sometimes find themselves four in a 10 m2 cell, their showers are in a rudimentary state and the opening exits are difficult to apply. In January 2017, in an overwhelming report, the Belgian section of the International Prisons Observatory (ILO) had heavily criticized the state in which some of our prisons were left by the public authorities. Among their conclusions: "No budget has been made for the purpose of equipping each cell with a toilet, no measures are envisaged to eradicate rats, cockroaches and other vermins that swarm in prison cells and kitchens". While the words are strong, they nevertheless illustrate a difficult context. Minister, I take advantage of your last visit to Mons Prison to ask you the following questions. Have you become aware of the old-fashioned state of Mons prison? Have you become aware of the difficulties faced by prison staff and detainees? What measures and budget do you intend to put in place to improve the lives of workers and detainees in Mons Prison? How long could improvements be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u3	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, I regularly try to make informal visits to prisons, which I did most recently at Mons prison. I was able to see with my own eyes that the prison is old and has many shortcomings. I recall that this facility was built in 1867 and has undergone several renovations, the last of which was in 2003. The situation is obviously related to the maintenance, but the old age is also related to the age of the building. As you know, the Régie des Bâtiments is responsible for meeting our infrastructure needs. Requests for work have been sent to the Régie des Bâtiments on a regular basis and are processed on an ongoing basis. The following work is under way, planned or requested: - for the new visiting room, they are finished; - those at the control and intervention post are in progress; - those relating to the high voltage cab and the telephone booth are planned in the short term; - the replacement of the camera system, the repair of showers, toilets and technical premises, the replacement of security lighting and the renovation of the kitchen and shop are being studied. If you would like more details on the calendar or on the budget, you can contact my colleague, Jan Jambon, who is responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u4	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. I will of course follow his advice and address his colleague, Mr Jan Jambon, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u5	Question No 26242 by Mr. Van Hecke will be dealt with in the Committee on the Interior. Question No 26265 by Mr Dallemagne is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u6	Minister, a year ago I questioned you about a possible reform of the 'prival of jurisdiction' procedure. I asked if, following the report of the Court of Justice in the aftermath of the Jonathan Jacob case, you intended to take the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 20 October 2016 and the various pending questions on the procedure of privilege of jurisdiction before the Constitutional Court, an initiative to amend the law. You replied: "I think it would be useful to submit these recommendations to the expert committee which I was responsible for preparing a new Code of Criminal Procedure. It is a matter which must be dealt with with with caution and in which caution must be put above action. Moreover, I would point out that the current system of magistrates has both advantages and disadvantages and does not lead to impunity. I therefore do not share your view that the privilege of jurisdiction is always a privilege for the person concerned. The proposals of our experts will be submitted, if necessary, to the new Supreme Court of Justice, the College of Attorneys General, the College of the Courts and Courts and the Court of Cassation.' In the meantime, the questions referred for a preliminary ruling were answered in a judgment of 1 February 2018 and a judgment of 22 March 2018. The judgment of 1 February 2018 states that Articles 479 and 480 infringe Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution in the sense that they do not provide for the intervention of an investigative court to supervise, on the one hand, the regularity of justice in the course of the judicial investigation and, on the other hand, to rule as an appeal body on the decisions of the magistrate appointed as the investigating judge. The judgment of 22 March 2018 states that, to the extent that there is no action by an investigating court in the case of the lower courts at the time of the conclusion of the investigation which, in the course of an adversarial procedure, conducts the procedure for the administration of justice and determines whether the objections are sufficient and that the judicial procedure is regular, while the magistrates before the appeal court are in breach of the principle of equality, Article 479. You stated in your reply that the current procedure of privilege of jurisdiction does not lead to impunity. In the De Palmenaer case, the Court of Appeal ruled on the case of the cheating peace court of Ostend a couple of weeks ago the inadmissibility of the criminal proceedings on the basis of the abovementioned judgments of the Constitutional Court. Thus, the current procedure does indeed result in impunity for lower judges. Since there is no filter procedure at the end of a judicial investigation, the criminal proceedings against a lower court can never be brought before a court of judgment. This impasse must therefore be resolved as quickly as possible. I have three questions. First, in its judgment of 1 February 2018, the Constitutional Court stated that, pending the legislative action, the common rules of justice should be applied. In the spirit of the primacy of jurisdiction procedure, it seems to me that the natural court for the administration of justice in judicial investigations into lower magistrates is the chamber of incriminating. Will you instruct the prosecutor-general to enter the Chamber of Appeal for the settlement of legal proceedings in all judicial investigations against lower judges, so that this deadlock is lifted? Will you specifically instruct the Attorney General to do so in the De Palmenaer case? A year ago, you protected your reform of criminal procedure in order not to have to immediately change the law in relation to the procedure of privilege of jurisdiction. In the meantime, we've been more than a year. No draft law has yet been tabled in Parliament. Both the reform of the assistance procedure and the change in the system of the investigating judge to a judge of the investigation are subject to considerable controversy, both in the field of work and in the political field. Do you believe that you are still putting forward a draft new Criminal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure in Parliament? If the answer is positive, what is the timing? If the answer to this question is negative or if the timing is still too far in the future, when can we expect you to have recovery legislation for the procedure of privilege of jurisdiction? Finally, I have a question about the De Palmenaer case. In an article in the Newspaper of West Flanders of 8 June 2018 it is reported that the staff manager of the Bar in Bruges already sent a letter in 2013 to the Supreme Court of Justice in which he had gathered all complaints from the Bruges Bar about the practices of Mr De Palmenaer. Would I have liked to know in concrete terms what effect the Supreme Court has had on this letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u7	Ms Lambrecht, the Constitutional Court decided in its judgments of February and March 2018 that there should also be a filter for the proceedings relating to judges of first instance and peace judges for the substance of the proceedings. This concerns specifically the rules governing the administration of justice, the checking of the regularity of the investigation and the assessment of the adequacy of the objections. This is already the case for the counsellors at the courts of appeal, among other things. For this reason, on 19 April last, the College of Attorneys-General decided to refer to the Chamber of Inclamation at the end of the investigation for the purpose of settling the case. In the case of cases already pending before the Court of Appeal, the College has decided to ask the Court to declare criminal proceedings inadmissible and thus not to declare the criminal proceedings inadmissible, after which the Board of Indictment may still settle the case with a view to re-examining the substance of the case. As far as the file you mentioned is concerned, the court-general of Ghent informs me that in the meantime it has received the judgment of the Court of Appeal in which the inadmissibility of the criminal proceedings was indeed established. The prosecutor-general will shortly take the Chamber of Inclamation, as explained earlier, so that the case can proceed. With regard to the reform of criminal proceedings in general, I would like to refer to the presentations in the Committee on Justice of the experts responsible for preparing a new criminal procedure. The experts have not yet developed this section in the current draft. After the summer recess, the Justice Commission will continue to organise hearings and discussions. As for your questions regarding the Supreme Court of Justice, I have been informed that the Council has indeed received a complaint from the former Bruges staff member concerning the way in which the peace court concerned operates. During an investigation, the Advisory and Investigation Committee found that a judicial investigation had been initiated on the charge of this magistrate. Since this committee cannot intervene in ongoing legal proceedings, it has closed the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u8	Minister, I understand that you have given a very positive answer, in that you confirm here that the court-general of Ghent has determined the criminal proceedings and that the matter will continue. For the sake of clarity, can we therefore assume that anyone who has committed such acts on behalf of good citizens for years will actually be prosecuted and that a sentence will be pronounced? That's what's going on in my area. After all, people believe that the person in question will get away with the suffering he has caused many families.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u9	Mr President, Minister, last week the Director-General, ad interim of the Penitentiary Institutions, decided to withdraw all recovery rest days from Monday 25 June. It is a question of rest days laid down in the employment regulations in order to compensate for the hours that the penitentiary staff perform too much in practice per week. The employment regulations of the prison staff state that a person may lose one day of recovery rest per 19 days of absence due to illness, accident at work or unlawful absence. It does not provide for the withdrawal of recovery rest or the removal of recovery rest days in the event of a strike. There is even a risk that the withdrawal of recovery days will lead to more than 50 hours working in one week, which is contrary to labour law. The prison staff together have more than 500 000 days of late leave. The chances of staff taking up these days are minimal given the under-staffing of the frameworks. In other words, the withdrawal of the recovery days increases the proverbial backpack with late leave. Because regular leave is very difficult to obtain, the recovery days, which are often awarded in blocks, are often the only clue of staff to plan their social and private lives. The decision of the board therefore has a serious impact on the life of the prison staff and may create additional stress. I would also point out that staff working during the strike bear the same consequences of the decision of the central management. They too must come to work on days on which they normally rest. The measure took place in one day before formal consultation with the trade unions, which shows little goodwill. On the contrary, it can be seen as a manoeuvre to break the strike, by putting pressure on it, including on the financial front. That came to our attention on many strike rockets. Staff who wish to show that they do not agree with the measures, but who normally had recovery rest, should now apply for additional strike days. First of all, how many additional staff does the Director-General hope to be able to call on ad interim through these measures? Secondly, what signal do you think you can send to prison staff and trade unions? Thirdly, are you prepared to call back the Director-General ad interim on the matter, since the decision goes against the labour regulations and has a negative effect on working conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u10	Mr President, Minister, at the plenary session on 21 June I questioned you about the decision to introduce minimum services in prisons and about the social unrest that this causes. Since then, decisions have been taken that cause a lot of fuss for the people on strike. Reportedly, prison staff recovery rest days have been unilaterally withdrawn despite previous agreements. The impression is that it is intended to increase the pressure on staff and trade unions before the talks actually started. Minister, is this impression correct? Is this happening to your knowledge? Do you mean to achieve social peace?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u11	Mr Hedebouw, do you ask your next question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u12	Mr President, it seems to me that everything has been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u13	Mr President, it is difficult to predict when exactly 6 825 full-time equivalents will be achieved in monitoring and technology. On 25 June 2018, 7 842 staff were present in these degrees, representing 6 736,39 full-time equivalents. A dossier for 53 recruitments will be submitted to the Treasury Inspectorate this week. I would like to stress that, on average, the frameworks have been completed for more than 98 percent, which is exceptional compared to many other services. In addition, the boxes "work differently" provide a buffer of 5 %, which means that with a completed frame of 95 % all tasks must be able to be performed. At present, the 94.2 % framework has been completed in one establishment, a second one with the 95 % limit, all others significantly above it, with an average of 98 % and more. The preliminary draft law adopted by the government at first reading imposes very little restrictions on the right to strike, or rather a modulation of the right to strike, in order to ensure that Belgium can pursue a humane detention policy guaranteeing the minimum rights of detainees. I started formal negotiations with the prison staff's unions yesterday. It is therefore difficult for me to report all the problems now. It is also not possible to give a percentage of occupancy of the monitoring and technical functions needed to provide this guaranteed service. This will be laid down per establishment in a plan to be discussed with local trade union representatives. In any case, the aim is to be able to provide these services in the event of strikes lasting longer than one day without the need for civil protection and police to assist. With regard to the withdrawal of recovery rest, I can tell you that due to the scale of the strike actions, which is all but exceptional, the administration has taken additional measures to ensure the service. In establishments where the police services provide support, and only these, during the period of the strike actions, the 36-hour and 38-hour recovery rest shall be withdrawn, provided that such withdrawal does not result in staff working more than 50 hours per week and/or six days after each other. These withdrawals are possible by law and regulation, in compliance with the law laying down certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the public sector of 14 December 2000. The measure, although legally applied only exceptionally, is also motivated only from an organisational point of view and is not intended to put any pressure on staff. I would stress that we will make minimal use of it and only in so far as is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer. First, on the days of recovery: on the one hand, we receive numerous feedback on the non-respect of the 50 hours. I still think that's an important point. On the other hand, such withdrawal is a pressure on prison staff. People find themselves forced to continue working when they were entitled to these days of recovery. However, the issue of the conflict is, in part, about the issue of leave days not available to staff. Minister, I can tell you that if the aim is to achieve social peace in the sector, it is really perceived in a very different way by prison officers. Then you're talking about protocol 464, with 6,825 officials, but you promised, in another protocol, more than 200 additional officials (7,075). In terms of promises, it seems to me that there is double standards. We will of course follow this dossier and this struggle very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u15	Minister, I am following Mr Hedebouw in the sense that it is not a good start in the great conflict you have with the guards if you are unilaterally affecting recovery rest. I don't need to explain that to you. Therefore, if you withdraw the rest that they are legally entitled to, I believe that this will not calm down but rather warm up the moods. I wish you a great deal of courage and success in the negotiations. I hope that you will be able to reach good agreements on both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u16	Minister, the draft law laying down various provisions on civil law and provisions to promote alternative forms of dispute resolution, which was adopted on 7 June last, obliges co-owners' associations to provide a reserve capital, the annual contribution of which should not be less than 5% of the total common burden for the previous financial year. The aim is rightly to prevent a co-owner from paying for large repairs and renewal works. However, those who cover up for a risk at 100 % are exposed to another risk at 100 %. The reserve capital may come into an account in the name of the association of the co-owners, but the syndicus has power of at all times in that account. It is an unpleasant thought that one day the syndician would disappear with the reserve capital of the buildings under his control. Therefore, Article 3 of the Law of 11 February 2013 on the organisation of the profession of real estate agent provides that, where the real estate agent intermediaries, the real estate broker syndicians and the real estate agent stewards carry out their activities within the framework of a legal person, they are subject to the minimum capital requirements, the King's further conditions are set out. As far as I know, the King has not taken any action and we therefore fall back on company law. You are working on a new Code of Company and Associations and have put it in the Chamber. As announced, the requirement of minimum capital for an e.g., which remains to be defended, also disappears the possibility for any interested party to claim a judicial dissolution of a company with negative equity capital. A year ago, this Parliament provided that the Public Prosecutor's Office could also dissolve companies with negative assets. It is not for us to dissolve the legal person, but for the negative own funds to be eliminated. This is certainly the case for legal persons syndici who manage significant amounts of apartment owners. Minister, I would like an answer to the following questions. Firstly, do you agree that as more reserve capital is built by the co-owners' associations, there must be guarantees that the syndician does not unduly take on this? Secondly, if the syndicus does disappear with the money of the co-owners, who checks if a syndicus has adequately insured against the disappearance of the working capital and reserve capital of an association of co-owners? Thirdly, what is your position on recognised legal persons syndici with negative own funds? Fourthly, since the King does not impose minimum capital requirements on real estate agents, intermediaries and stewards, and in your new Code of Conduct you even tolerate companies with negative equity, do you not fear that corrupted co-owners will turn to the Belgian State to have it convicted for failure by the King to provide a minimum capital in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u17	Mr van der Donkt, I do not agree with the view that there are insufficient safeguards against malicious syndici. Recent legislation has strengthened these safeguards. For example, it is the task of the General Assembly of the Co-owners' Association to verify the correct exercise of its powers, there is a large co-ownership and a council of co-ownership which takes note of all the documents relating to the management of co-ownership, and such a council can also be set up for small co-ownerships, and the General Assembly of the Co-owners' Association annually appoints a commissioner of the accounts to check the accounts of the association. I refer to Articles 577-8/1 and 2 of the Civil Code. As far as your second question is concerned, I can tell you that the syndician is contractually responsible for co-ownership for the errors he makes in the performance of his duties. That is Article 577-8, § 5 of the Civil Code. Since the amendment of the law of 2 June 2010, the syndician has been obliged to take liability insurance covering his duties and to provide proof of that insurance. In the first instance, it is up to the association of co-owners to exercise control over the insurance policy, undertaken by the syndician. The co-ownership board is also obliged to carry out that check. As far as your third question is concerned, I would point out that in the public limited liability company the current law will remain unchanged. This implies that the alarm procedure provided for in Article 633 and the winding-up claim in the event that the net asset has fallen below the minimum capital are retained in the new Code currently under discussion in the Chamber. For the private company, the rules are adapted to the abolition of the concept of capital. The loss of capital no longer gives rise to a claim for dissolution, as was provided for under the current law in Article 333 of the Company Code, but the alarm procedure itself is maintained and improved. In future, the governing body must convene the general meeting, not only when own funds are negative and/or are in danger of becoming negative, but also when the liquidity position of the company is compromised. In other words, once the company appears unable to pay its debts over a period of at least 12 months. The members of the governing body shall remain liable for any damage resulting from the failure to comply with this obligation. The reversal of the burden of proof is maintained. Fourthly, since, as indicated in the law on co-ownership, sufficient safeguards are provided for the control of the syndicus and since it can also be held liable for his intentional or otherwise errors, it will be very unlikely that the Belgian State will be held liable. As far as real estate agents and real estate agents are concerned, I refer to Article 2 (1) of the Act of 11 February 2013 on the organisation of the profession of real estate agent, which states that the Minister of Middle Class is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. However, I would like to make a few further comments. Companies with a negative net asset are often artificially kept alive through a current account of the partner manager. Unfortunately, this is a common practice. But if a company has to be run through a current account in good times, what will happen in a crisis? In many cases, a negative net asset indicates an insufficient return. It is the same companies that are financially ill, but which do not go bankrupt because of the monetary policy of the central banks because they live with cheap money. Indeed, it is true that the Real Estate Real Estate Real Estate Agency takes out a collective policy for the authorized real estate agents. However, their coverage is limited to EUR 250 000 per claim. That policy also intervenes only in case of theft or embezzlement by an appointed or a third party, but not in case of theft or embezzlement by the partner manager, directors or the spouse of the real estate agent. In other words, when the real estate agent disappears with the northern sun, there is no cover. You referred to some control mechanisms that have been or will be incorporated into the law. I also believe that you referred to the double benefit test, both for an e.g. and for a nv. While this double benefit test prevents a company with a negative net asset profit, it does not, of course, prevent the partners from further undermining the company through a current account with high interest rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic937x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon's committee is interrupting. You are called to the Finance Committee and to the plenary. Questions that could not be asked today and that have not been converted into written questions are postponed until next week.
