ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u1	Question No 22517 by Mrs Temmerman is transformed into a written question. Joined Questions No 22756 by Mrs Galant and No 22765 by Mr Senesael and Questions No 22943 and No 22945 by Mrs Galant are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u2	Madam Secretary, microplastics and other plastic pollution pose a very serious threat to our environment and biodiversity. In early January 2018, you signed a sectoral agreement with the Belgian-Luxembourg association of manufacturers and distributors of cosmetics, detergents and maintenance products to ban microplastics. You yourself called it an action to safeguard biodiversity. That sounds like music in green ears. That's very positive. I have the following questions. Can we get a copy of the Sector Understanding? How many actions does the plan consist of? What are the most important actions? Over what period will the actions be implemented in the plan? What substances will replace microplastics in the products concerned? Will the measures contained in the agreement be transposed into a binding legislative framework with corresponding sanctions for non-implementation of certain measures? Are you considering taking any other measures? What measures and actions do you intend to take, whether or not to cooperate with colleagues in this government or with fellow ministers of the Lander Environment? What do you think are the most important measures we need to take to protect our living environment from plastic pollution? What's your opinion on the Statiegeld alliance? Are you an opponent or an opponent of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u3	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, first of all, the sectoral agreement aims at a total ban on plastic microbulbs in all washable cosmetic products and toothpastes by 31 December 2019. Plastic microbulbs are microplastic particles used as an ingredient with abrasive action and/or for cleaning. Particles based on mineral or plant material can be used as an alternative to plastic microbulbs. The agreement also obliges the parties concerned to follow up on scientific and technological developments in this area and to take the necessary measures in the event of new proven problems. The agreement also commits the signatory parties to actively communicate with the companies and to encourage them to replace microplastic with alternative ingredients with similar efficiency. The agreement shall remain valid five years after signature. Secondly, such a conversion is not foreseen at the moment. The agreement is already binding on the signatory parties, the State and DETIC, including the members of DETIC, according to the provisions of the Product Standards Act. The State may carry out verification on the basis of documentation and/or laboratory tests on consumer products taken in the framework of a sample. Remedial measures are possible if these checks show that the commitments made are not being followed up. This sectoral agreement is just one of the actions that I am promoting to reduce the negative environmental impacts of plastics. In preparation for the publication of the European strategy on plastics in a circular economy, I had already asked my administration to think about a more sustainable management of plastics. To this end, several studies have been launched on the recycling of plastics in products, on the certification of recycled plastic content or on the design of products that impede recycling. In January of this year, the European Union strategy was published. I believe that it is within the European framework that the actions of the administrations must be taken in order for their effects to be optimal. I have asked my administration to analyse this strategy and withdraw the most relevant actions based on our national context. This work is under way. Among the actions we have identified measures relating to the design of products in general and packaging in particular, the traceability of chemicals in plastics, single-use plastic products, the definition of compostability criteria, for which there is already a royal decree in Belgium, the reduction of microplastics emitted by products, whether intentionally added or not, and the development of alternative raw materials to oil. With regard to "Statiegeldalliantie", I find this initiative extremely interesting and relevant. Examples abroad have shown that a deposit system can be used to control wild waste while preserving resources in production systems. However, the establishment of such a system will have an impact on the socio-economic balances resulting from our current system. It should be stressed that the responsibility for packaging bonding lies with the Regions if it falls within the framework of a waste management policy, i.e. for single-use packaging, but it is federal if it is to promote reusable packaging. Concertation is therefore necessary, and certainly before supporting this type of measure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u4	Madam Minister, you have answered all the questions, for which I am grateful. I am particularly pleased to hear that you wish to take the stakes alliance to heart as far as your powers are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u5	Mr de Lamotte, before I give you the floor to put your question on the follow-up to the recommendations of the Special Committee on Dieselgate, I should like to inform you that the Committee on Public Health has decided to hold an exchange of views with the ministers concerned – Mrs Marghem and Mrs De Block – in this respect. The date of the decision has not yet been determined. I do not know the extent of the minister's response, but we are in negotiations with ministers to be able to do this in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u6	Madam President, Minister Peeters is also competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u7	I assume this will take place in the Committee on the Economy. We have decided to hold an exchange of views with the ministers concerned by our committee, Ministers Marghem and De Block. The other commissions can do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u8	Madam President, thank you. I wasn't aware of that information. I am learning this with great interest because I also intend to address the question that I am going to put to Mrs Marghem, Mrs De Block, who is responsible for health, and to Mr Peeters, who is responsible for economics. An exchange of views with the three ministers at the same time would indeed be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u9	Minister, it has now been more than two years since the scandal revealed the installation by the car manufacturer Volkswagen of software designed to deceive the certification tests of its vehicles, by temporarily reducing their polluting emissions. In March 2016, the Special Commission for the follow-up of the Dieselgate case had produced a report that made a series of recommendations to the government. With regard to your expertise, we asked him in particular to assess the environmental effects of all types of vehicles; to step up his efforts to reduce the emissions of polluting substances, including nitrogen oxides, in consultation with the Regions; to advocate for the European level to ensure that the impact on the environment and public health is better taken into account in the decision-making process at European level, as part of the effort to combat emissions of NOx, CO2 and fine particulate matter from the automotive sector. At a time when it appears that we have missed our annual target of reducing non-industrial greenhouse gas emissions and that, in addition, they have gone up again from 2015, I have serious doubts about your attention to follow-up on these recommendations. Madam Minister, in order to lift these, can you indicate the concrete steps that have been taken in this direction? Can you take stock of your follow-up to the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u10	Mr President, first of all, I shall address the assessment of the environmental effects of all types of vehicles, within the framework of a product standard set at European level. These parameters are taken into account and expected developments are planned under the NEC Directive. Of course, these forecasts have been undermined by the Dieselgate scandal, the software cheating and the drifts observed on the test benches, leading, under real conditions, to an increase in emissions and thus in air pollution. In Belgium, the Regions are competent to assess and account for pollution related to the actual operation of vehicles. Studies have been carried out by the Walloon and Flemish regions and I refer you to my Environment colleagues in the three regions for specific information. Several studies have also been carried out in other Member States leading to a better vision of reality. On the basis of these findings, in collaboration with the Regions, in the various revision processes of the European standards on non-road vehicles and mobile machinery, we defend tests which best correspond to actual emissions, compliance with the established requirements of all vehicles and a strengthening of the longer-term requirements, if necessary, in order to achieve the emission reduction objective set out in the NEC Directive and international agreements such as the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Pollution. Moreover, our ambition in this area is particularly clear and assumed both in the Council and in the various monitoring committees of the legislation concerned. Finally, with regard to cooperation with the Regions, we are currently finalising two cooperation agreements on efforts to reduce emissions of polluting substances. In terms of federal jurisdiction, significant measures are mainly those related to transport taxation, modal shift and fuel taxation, which have undergone profound changes since the beginning of this Parliament. I would mention, for example, diesel excise duties, the reform of the taxation of corporate vehicles and investments to increase the attractiveness of rail. I would add that for more information on measures related to mobility or finance, it will be necessary to ask my competent colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u11	[[.]] Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, we will have to add Minister Peeters and the Minister of Finance to this committee. It would be interesting to have a comprehensive and cross-cutting view of all the conclusions of this Dieselgate Commission. I hear your answers, but there is still a lack of time to implement these decisions. As we will have the opportunity to see each other again when the timetable is set, we will then have a more comprehensive debate on the data set. I will read your answer in a cross-sectional way, as well as those of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I can add that Minister Peeters, following an analogue question I asked him, has promised to come to such a committee. We have also asked the Prime Minister this question, he has promised to coordinate it and to ensure that we can hear all ministers about the succession. That is a promise I received from four ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u13	Madam President, Minister, this time the final data has been released. They confirm what Le Soir of 9 September already announced: Belgium's greenhouse gas emissions have gone up again since 2015. But there is probably even more worrying. It was known that in order to meet the 2020 target, Belgium should probably and unfortunately use its accumulated bonuses to fill the gaps planned after 2018. Given these very poor scores for 2015 and 2016, it is no longer even certain that multi-annual flexibility will be sufficient to achieve the 2020 target. Madam Minister, what is your analysis of the situation in Belgium, which is at the bottom of the European peloton, whereas initially it was among the leaders? The penalty is known: if Belgium exceeds the thresholds allowed for its 2020 target, the unrealised effort will be postponed to the next period, increased by 8%. Procrastination will cost us a lot. Moreover, if the slip starts for 2020, it is insured for 2030, because it is no longer 15% that will have to be reached, but 35%, not to mention the surplus related to these possible sanctions. What do you propose to put in place to correct the shot without further delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u14	Madam President, honourable Member, since 2014, Belgium's greenhouse gas emissions have been rising again. This follows ten years of downward trend in our emissions with a historical minimum precisely in 2014. For non-ETS emissions subject to a national target under the European decision "Effort Sharing", there is a slight surplus of 0.4% over the annual target. The exact deviation will have to be confirmed following the submission of the national greenhouse gas inventory report in March and the procedure for the review of these data by the European Commission in the following months. It can already be said that this difference is mainly due to a significant increase in emissions in the building sector (+7.1 % compared to 2015), which is partly due to the climatic conditions in this relatively cold year compared to the previous two years. Transport emissions, after a sharp increase in 2015, remained relatively stable in 2016. It is important to note, at this stage, that in accordance with the provisions of the cooperation agreement on burden sharing, greenhouse gas emission reduction targets are distributed among the three Regions that are required to report their non-ETS emissions annually to the National Climate Commission (NCC). This report to the CNC taking place only later in the year, that is between April and June, I invite you to speak directly to the various Regions in order to obtain the details of the developments by Region. Together with my colleagues represented in the CNC, we will have to reassess, as soon as possible, the impact of this exceedance of our target earlier than expected on the balance sheet for the whole period 2013-2020. Where appropriate, corrective measures will have to be taken. For its part, the Federal State has implemented its commitment as set out in the 2015 Agreement, namely the continuation of existing policies and measures and the implementation of new policies and measures resulting in emission reductions of 7,000 and 15,250 kilotonnes equivalent to CO2 respectively. According to my administration's 2017 impact assessment, these objectives will be met. However, it is possible to make adjustments to ensure compliance with Belgium's commitments as a whole in support of concerted action by the Regions at the level of the National Climate Commission, following an in-depth review of the situation. In this context, we will also need to assess the possible need for flexibility mechanisms and/or transfers to other European Member States. As you point out, we must also be prepared now for the post-2020 period. The new European "Effort Sharing" regulation gives Belgium a non-ETS reduction target of 35% in 2030 compared to 2005. And the latest projections indicate that, unchanged, our emissions would far exceed that target. Our efforts are now focused on our contribution to the 2030 National Integrated Energy-Climate Plan in accordance with everyone's skills. A whole range of measures must be possible in each of the greenhouse gas emitting sectors. Transport and buildings remain two priority areas of action in view of the evolution of emissions in these sectors. In addition, cross-cutting measures also play an essential role. The green bonds we are currently issuing must, for example, help to direct financial flows, in this case institutional investors' investments, towards low-carbon investments. This is, after France, the second largest green bond ever issued. Our hope is that this first step will facilitate the large-scale development of the green bond market and will be the first step towards the development of a public instrument to encourage the development of new public and private low-carbon investments. Another potentially very important measure is the introduction of a carbon price in non-ETS sectors. The national debate, which I launched on this subject a year ago, must be concluded before the summer. The conclusions and recommendations resulting from this debate should make it possible to move forward the reflection on the implementation of such charging in Belgium. Finally, let us not lose sight of the fact that the 2020 and 2030 horizons are only milestones towards our long-term goal of carbon neutrality. Therefore, in the short term, it is crucial that the various entities responsible for climate policy in Belgium define strategies, take measures and invest in infrastructure that will enable us to meet this objective tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u15	Madam Minister, on the record, I think there is no longer any discussion to be held. The report's here. Of course, there is still the question of regional distribution. But the overall view of the finding is shared. However, my question was, "What are you proposing?" And you tell me, "We'll have to reanalyze." But no, we know today that there is a problem! "If so, we'll have to correct," you say. We know today that there is a problem! You're telling us what the federal government is thinking about green bonds and you're talking about the carbon price. But it won't be until the summer. I fear that the only solution – you have addressed this question in your answer – will be to buy from neighbouring countries, at a high price, the right of our delay, which shows that procrastination will cost us very much and that this return of balance, while things were going well until the end of 2014, is not only related to the weather elements you are talking about; it is also and above all linked to the lack of political will of the various governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u16	Madam President, Mr Nollet, I would like to make it clear that I do not have the figures for the Regions. As long as I do not receive them, I will be unable to decipher what actions should be carried out in a concerted manner with the Regions. All I can say is that at the federal level, the goal will be achieved through the sharing of effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u17	I am talking about the overall vision, the global vision, and not the distribution between the regions which will then intervene, which is very strange. But you're not responsible. We know the amount. We know the result, but we still have to fight to distribute it. Whatever! What matters today is the situation in which we are in: Belgium is at the bottom of the peloton, whereas before, it was a leader and it is lagging behind on its objectives. It is therefore necessary to do more because any delay in this matter is not good to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u18	Mr Nollet, you have the floor to put your question No 23669 on the development of the debate and the position of the Minister on VAT to be applied to certain environmental sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u19	Madam Chair, Minister, there are two dimensions in my question. First, what is the status of the discussions and proposals on lowering VAT rates in certain green sectors, particularly in the repair sector? Some time ago, we discussed this subject, and I would like to take this up again with you today. When can we consider Belgium taking advantage of this to reduce this VAT rate to 6%? The second dimension, as Federal Minister for the Environment, at what level have you already intervened on this subject, with what position and outcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u20	Mr President, I have something to convey to you more fleshy than the line of answer that I have before me, which is, as far as VAT is concerned, to send you back to my colleague, the Minister of Finance, Mr Johan Van Overtveldt. I assume you will agree with me that we will postpone the answer to your question to a later sitting, unless we turn it, if possible, into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u21	I am not opposed to your proposal. It all depends on the time frame. If the answer is to come to me in three months, I do not agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u22	Mr Nollet, you do not have to complain about me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u23	I'm not complaining! I'm just asking a question to see if it's faster to do so in writing or in oral question and you're attacking me...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u24	We never exceeded the month. If the commission meets every month, the timing will be the same. I understand very well what you're telling me. You decide the format of the response you wish to receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u25	Within a month an answer to a written question, do you agree or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u26	Madam President, I agree. But the question I was asking was the European dimension, what your colleague says, but also what you think. You can already tell me what you think, as Minister of the Environment. That was the second part of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u27	I still think the same thing, and I've told you several times. It would be interesting for access to electricity to benefit from a reduced rate of VAT. However, this point is not unanimous within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u28	My question was what you did for that. So I'm turning my question into a written question, hoping to get some answers in the month. I regret that what was clear in my question cannot be clear in the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Nollet has converted 23669 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u30	Madam Minister, you will recall that on 13 December last I was asking you about the climate ambitions of the new government of the Netherlands, which proposed to move from 40% CO2 emissions by 2030 to less 55% within the European Union, saying that it was prepared to reduce its own emissions by 49% - rather than 36% at the same time. In your answer, you told me to work with your colleague "who sends his climate representative to the embassy." He will explain how the Dutch intend to formulate concrete proposals that can be exchanged with Western European partners in order to make progress." You added: "In the coming weeks, I believe that beyond Benelux, with the countries of Western Europe, we can enhance our ambitions, not only with slogans, but in concrete terms". Of course, I was interested in your answer. More than two months later. I would therefore like to know what it is going on in practice, to take up your term – therefore, not only in terms of slogans, but also in terms of decisions. Minister, how high are you going to increase your commitments? Do you now follow the ambition displayed by our neighbour to the North? What have your contacts with their climate ambassador given?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u31	Mr President, last January, the Dutch climate ambassador visited us to present his government's proposal to Belgian politicians, climate experts and stakeholders at a meeting of the stakeholders organised by my administration within the framework of the Coordination Committee for International Environmental Policy (CCPIE). The Dutch proposal gave rise to an interesting exchange of views. Ambassador Marcel Beukeboom stressed, among other things, the proactive role played by Dutch industry captains in the societal debate in this field. My administration is currently conducting preliminary exploratory talks on the possible extension of this debate to the whole of Benelux. As I had indicated from the outset at the time of my interview with my new Dutch counterpart during COP 23, I wanted to take advantage of these historically strong and well-founded exchanges within the Benelux to undertake a reflection on a concrete policy. When you say "your ambitions", I have to say that what is first of all what is displayed by the Dutch and which we could share, provided that assistance is provided and that the project can be developed together. As you know, 2018 will be, on the international stage, the year of the Talanoa dialogue, which is the first phase of the five-year evaluation cycle under the Paris Agreement and one of the cornerstones of this important agreement. During this dialogue, we will consider, inter alia, on the basis of a new IPCC report we expect, the progress made in the fight against global warming and the options to bring our level of ambition into line with these objectives. Talanoa initiatives at national and regional level could be used as input to the multilateral process and a Talanoa initiative at Benelux level would therefore be in line with this. The dialogue is also being prepared at European level. The European Commission has indicated that it will organise one or two European Talanoa events later this year and is currently preparing a communication on the European Energy-Climate Policy to be discussed at the March European Council. The outcome of the dialogue will need to inform the development of nationally determined, new or updated contributions by 2020. Since the European Union has introduced a determined contribution at the common national level for the international plan, the discussion on strengthening our level of ambition will have to take place at European level. Since the five-year cycle of ambition is an essential element of the Paris Agreement, on which the European Union has strongly insisted, we are also working in Europe to integrate the principle of a five-year review of European climate policy, in line with the future governance mechanism for the Energy Union. The Energy Union will actively participate in the dialogue process. In conclusion, it seems interesting to remind you of the studies carried out by my administration on the macroeconomic impacts of different low-carbon transition scenarios in Belgium. These studies demonstrate the potential in terms of creating local jobs in particular. Similarly, the transition to a low-carbon future will bring us both benefits, such as better air quality. I will, of course, keep you informed of further developments on this issue, but until I leave the exploratory phase of the proposals that are currently being made by Holland and which will be analysed by the experts in my administration, I cannot give any further concrete elements since your last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u32	Madam Minister, I feel you back and that is what afflicts me. In the previous reply, you said that in the coming weeks we were going to act, not with slogans, but with concrete action. Today, you say that studies are going to be done, that we are in the exploratory phase. It's a step backwards from your previous answers, but above all it's too far away from the issues and urgency of the problem. What prevents you from saying: "Belgium agrees and joins the Dutch proposal"? Not for itself, but to defend it at European level. The Netherlands did so on the occasion of its government agreement. I interrogated you in the meantime and you looked open. But, since then, nothing. You say, "We're studying, we're watching." In the meantime, Sweden has declared that it is in line with the objective of the Netherlands. What prevents Belgium from doing so? Then, of course, the debate is taking place at European level. And we'll have to wait for a decision at this level. But you're going back as you recently claimed to want to come with concrete and not slogans. Obviously, you're not on the date!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u33	I certainly didn't say the sentence you're quoting, certainly not literally. But, in enthusiasm and voluntarism, I tend, like you, to forget that the Regions exist. And indeed, proposals made by a centralised State such as the Netherlands must be examined by a decentralized State such as Belgium. Nothing can be done at the federal level alone, which is why consultation with the Regions is under way, which is always taking more time. You'll understand that, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u34	Since the minister denied having said this, I will refer it to point 06.08 of the Health Committee of 13 December 2017. I quote it, since I have the report before my eyes: "The painting is not so black. In the coming weeks, I believe that beyond Benelux, with the countries of Western Europe, we can enhance our ambitions, not only with slogans, but in practice." That's exactly what you said. If you want a copy, I have it here. You say you didn't say it, but that's exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u35	Mr Nollet, there is a small difference in the beginning of the sentence concerning the European plate. You always do semantic analysis. We're not gonna fight on this. If it makes you happy that I'm telling you that you're right, I'm gonna do it, so we're going to go as short as possible. That way, you are full of your rights and serene! But the fact is that, as I have just told you, I sometimes forget that for all these policies, I must always consider consultation with the Regions. It takes a little longer. There we are no longer at all at European level, of which I have spoken. We are at the level of Belgium, which is sometimes slower to react than a simple high-level contact between officials sharing the same competences from European central states.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for acknowledging that that is what you said. With a lot of enthusiasm at the time, I don't disagree. Since then, obviously, there are other sticks in the wheels. What concerns me and concerns me is that we have made a commitment to go fast, but that is not the case. Once again, as with other questions that I asked earlier, we will not be on the rendezvous, as other countries move forward. I hear you're putting this back on the Regions. It's your habit. We'll see what they say because my colleagues will also question the Regions to see where it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u37	No problem. Mr Nollet, you were a regional minister! So you know what it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u38	Madam President, Madam Minister, the resolution adopted in the House on the eve of the Paris Conference provides for the government to advocate for the recognition of climate refugee status (point 3.m). The resolution calls on the government "to draw attention to the fact that climate-related events that occur can contribute to aggravating the migration crisis" (point 3.i). We are increasingly experiencing these events. More than two years after the adoption of this resolution, I would like to know what action you have taken on each of these two recommendations, and what further action you intend to take in the future. I would also like to know the schedule of these suites. You will remember our exchange on the same subject about a year ago. I told you that I would come back to check whether Belgium had in the meantime been at the initiative of proposals for texts, draft definitions, etc., in short, to check that our country did not remain at arm's length on the subject. I would therefore like to know what has been set in motion in one year and what is planned for the next. I'm not asking you for any final results yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u39	Madam President, honourable Member, several studies on this subject have already shown that the pressure exerted by the impact of climate change is, in general, a factor in addition to other pressures, mainly economic, but also health, political, security and other pressures that drive migration. As the climate factor cannot generally be separated from other migration factors, the problem can only be addressed in an integrated manner, inter alia in the wider context of migration and asylum policies. It is in this context that, following your question last year on the same subject, I contacted the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. On that occasion, I suggested that this issue be addressed in the Interdepartmental Commission for Development Policy Coherence, where our respective administrations are represented. I will take this opportunity to remind him of my suggestion to work together among our jurisdictions to address this important issue. Having said that, I think it is particularly important to think at European and international level too, in order to establish a harmonised framework for asylum, reception and immigration issues, which takes account of the phenomenon of climate refugees. I would like to remind you of the establishment of the Task Force on Displacement, a task force on the displacement of persons within the Warsaw international mechanism on loss and damage. This technical body was founded by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The Task Force brings together fourteen experts in this area: eight "migration" experts working for relevant international organisations and NGOs, a representative of the Adaptation Committee, a representative of the LDC Expert Group and four members of the Executive Committee of the Warsaw Mechanism. At its first meeting in May 2017, the Task Force established its work plan, which includes an inventory of existing activities. A first result of this analysis is expected by the end of March. On the basis of this analysis, the members of the Task Force will make recommendations. These recommendations will be submitted to the parties for discussion at COP 24 in Katowice, Poland, in December. I remain convinced of the added value of scientific research as an important basis for policy in general, which is why I pay particular attention to the ongoing work in the context of the federal research programme www.belspo.be/brain-be, aimed at analysing how migration can contribute to adaptation to climate change. This project, coordinated by the University of Liège, was launched in October 2017 and will end in 2021. I'll keep you informed of the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u40	Minister, studies and research are obviously necessary. I'm not the one who's going to say the opposite. But we are at the end of the legislature. What interests me most of all in your answer is to know what you yourself have set in motion. Following the House's vote, on the eve of the Paris Conference, you made a suggestion to Secretary of State Franken. I dare you to say that this is a good suggestion. It is absolutely necessary for him to realize that beyond the migration problems which already seem to occupy him so much and worry him in the current economic situation, there are these future or already existing climate migrations. They will be more important than anything he meets today. Where I am disappointed, and you will understand it, is that one year after your suggestion, you have to recall the suggestion. In the meantime, he has not put anything in place or taken into account. I can only invite you to speak to the Prime Minister so that the reflection is comprehensive within the government and that you are not constantly blocked because of Secretary of State Franken who does not want to take into consideration your suggestion which I think is relevant. We have to go beyond that! After a year, on such an issue, one cannot simply continue to suggest, while you are the one who coordinates policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u41	Minister, on January 6, 2016, I asked you about the evolution of the issue of the climate accountability mechanism. You told me that this mechanism imposed by the 2014 funding law was still not operational. On 29 September 2016 and 4 October 2017, I asked you again about this and you replied that this mechanism had not yet entered its operational phase. What about today, a year after our last exchange? When are you finally going to bring this mechanism into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u42	Mr Nollet, the Regions have communicated to the National Climate Commission a note setting out the levels of regional emissions from the building sector for 2015 – the first year taken into account under this mechanism – which is an essential first step in considering the implementation of the climate accountability mechanism. The National Climate Commission validated these figures at the meeting on 6 December 2017. Differences in the trajectories established by law have not yet been confirmed, however, given a methodological change between the time the default trajectories set out in the law were established and the time of the last inventory of greenhouse gas emissions containing the data for 2015. This methodological change resulting from an adaptation of the IPCC guidelines, which are mandatory for European and international reporting, results in a bias between actual emission data and default trajectories. The law provides for the possibility of making certain changes in trajectories under certain conditions. The National Climate Commission decided on 6 December to mandate an intercabinets group in order to examine the desirability of a possible revision of the trajectories 2015-2020 and 2021-2024 and also to discuss the implementation difficulties that had been raised by the lawyers of the administrations of the various entities. Discussions are ongoing within this group. In addition, since the procedure for the approval of the Burden Sharing cooperation agreement is nearing completion in each parliament – and I am pushing for relief – the fund dedicated to the climate accountability mechanism established in 2017 can be subsequently fed by the federal share of revenues from the auctioning of ETS emissions allowances. This step is also essential for the implementation of the accountability mechanism, as these revenues are, according to law, the expected source for the payment of amounts to the regions in bonus situations. I am therefore confident that, in the light of these developments, the climate accountability mechanism will be operational in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u43	Madam Minister, I will try to react differently than in my other replies and take the pole that you are giving me at the end of your answer, that is, your hope that this mechanism can come into force. Can I just ask you to let the CNC, the National Climate Commission, know that this is your request, your wish, your intention? I don't know what the appropriate term is. I have the impression, from my point of view, that behind the technical difficulties which are sometimes mentioned and which you mention here, there are certain aspirations not to set up the mechanism in question. That is not what I have heard in your answer, I am quick to say. I would like you to be able to agree that you are relaying to the CNC, in particular the end of your response, so that the message is clear and unambiguous.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u44	Indeed, you have understood this and I thank you for this positive and constructive attitude – the fact is rare enough to be underlined but it could multiply in the future! – and I will therefore write to the CNC, knowing that the blocking is at another level, as you have understood well between the lines. Count on me to shake the coconut tree a little!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u45	I can only thank you for that!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u46	I'll note and be careful that you don't make a false leap.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u47	My collaborators also note.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u48	Madam President, on the last question, I also have a technical problem. Of course, it deserves a very detailed answer, but I have only a raw document, which has not been synthesized. As I did earlier, I would therefore ask you whether you agree that I reply in writing or orally at our next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u49	Minister, are you talking about my question about the IRE?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u50	Yes, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u51	Because I introduced another one, but I understood that it didn't happen to you. I just wanted to check that it was that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u52	First, we'll deal with the IRE issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u53	There are questions about CMEC (World Commission on Economy and Climate). My collaborator informs me that, in these circumstances, he wished to redirect them to the commission...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u54	These are the services of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u55	All right. It is forgiven, since it was the services of the House that automatically directed this question to the Economy Commission. There is still the question of IRE, which is very important. Unfortunately, I have only one raw document, which I will not go through before you without having read it myself. I still have to synthesize it in an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u56	All right. Let us then follow the same method as before, transforming my question No 23818 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u57	Question No 23818 by Mr Nollet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u58	For the sake of accuracy, I would like to inform you that I tabled my question a few days ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u59	February 22.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u60	You may have received it on that date, but we're 27. In other words, I did not table it a few hours before this meeting. Of course, this is not the most urgent from a political point of view, but let us admit that two of the seven questions I have tabled have been dealt with in the same way. If, in the future, we could improve our method, I think we would all be even more satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u61	That is another commitment that I am quick to note.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u62	We note everything, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-27-54-commissie-ic826x.u63	Question No 23631 by Mr Calvo is transformed into a written question at his request.
