ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u1	Question No 27460 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u2	Mr President, Minister, in July 2018, the combined title SNCB and TEC was introduced in Liège and, in a wider area, the title CityPass+ in the Caroloregian region. This title allows - finally - to move within more or less urban perimeters with a single title using the vehicles of the SNCB and those of the TEC indifferently. In this way, Wallonia joins Brussels (where the Jump title has existed for almost 20 years) and the Antwerp and Gantoese agglomerations, where the CityPass was introduced even earlier. Minister, can you give me an order of magnitude of the sales of these new titles since their creation in July, distinguishing the figures for Charleroi and Liège? On the basis of these commercial results, could you tell me whether such SNCB/TEC integration would be possible in the enlarged ER zone in the greater Namur, for example? Thank you, Minister, for your answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u3	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that between July and September 2018, 1,794 CityPass subscription validations - one or twelve months - were sold in Liège and 129 in Charleroi. These results are therefore very encouraging, particularly in Liège. In the future, consideration may be given to the possibility of extending existing integration zones or creating equivalent offers elsewhere. However, I would point out that the creation of these integrated tariff offers is part of the AnGeLiC project, which concerns the cities of Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi, in accordance with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u4	Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u5	Minister, on 23 August the launch of electrification of the 19 Mol-Hamont railway line was launched. This allows travellers from North Limburg to trace with newer equipment with a higher capacity to Antwerp and Brussels. A cross-border connection to Weert is also possible. Work, of course, also causes nuisance. In order to have the electrified rail line operational against the transport plan 2020, there will be a need to continue the work. The long single-track sections on this line also offer little flexibility to carry out an adapted timetable during certain works. I have the following questions, Minister. Will the passengers on the Mol-Hamont line be affected by the electrification works? Will an adapted timetable be implemented to enable the works to be carried out? What is the state of play in achieving a cross-border passenger connection towards Weert? Of course, my question has been asked a while ago, so we are a little overtaken by reality, but I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u6	Minister, I would like to join Mr Lijnen and have a few other questions. As far as the Mol-Hamont section is concerned, are the works on schedule? Will the 2020 deadline be met? I ask the question mainly because there is a European subsidy of 40%, if the project can be realised within the foreseen timeframe and within the budget of EUR 42 million. As regards the Hamont-Weert route, I refer to your reply during the discussion of your policy paper. You said at the time that this should be looked at in terms of operational and financial feasibility, together with the Netherlands. Is there any provision for additional studies and how much budget will be allocated to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the L19 electrification investment is estimated at EUR 47.5 million, of which 40% will be subsidised by Europe if the works are completed by the end of 2020. This is the first new rail project following the re-launch of the GEN works of the multi-annual strategic investment plan to be implemented under the federal budget in the multi-annual strategic investment plan. Infrabel's technical teams will be working at night from 10 p.m. to 5 p.m. for the construction of three new traction substations, the installation of 800 new overhead lines and the roll-out of 200 kilometers of new cables and wires over 33 kilometers. As a result of this work, Infrabel requests an exit from the entire railway line from Mol to Hamont between 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on weeknights from Monday evening to Saturday morning. During the weekend there is no consequence for the travellers. From Monday evening to Friday evening, three trains from Antwerp will have to be limited to Mol, in particular IC 4320, IC 4321 and IC 4322, arriving in Mol at 21.02 hours, 20.02 hours and 23.28 hours respectively. A bus service to Hamont or Neerpelt is provided for travellers arriving in Mol beaches. In the morning, the first train with departure in Hamont can continue to drive at 5.28 h, albeit with a timetable that has been postponed for two minutes. The departure from Mol to Antwerp remains unchanged. For a possible cross-border passenger connection to Weert, SNCB will first have to carry out a preliminary investigation as required by the management contract, provided that De Lijn is effectively electrified on Dutch territory. Infrabel informs me that for her part little infrastructure work is needed and that a number of structural studies and analyses are ongoing in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Did I hear correctly that on the bus connection that replaces the train connection there is a difference of two minutes? So the passengers are no longer than two minutes away with the bus connection? For the three trains there is always a bus connection? All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u9	Mr Minister, the Belgian citizen may, if he so wishes and against remuneration, request that the registration plate of his vehicle be personalized. The Mobility and Transport FPS has simplified the application procedure for personalized license plates. Simply submit an application via the website of the SPF Mobility and Transport and then request the registration of the vehicle via WebDIV. On the website www.mobilit.belgium.be is a list of prohibited and authorized combinations. It appears that, in some cases, the rules on the different possible combinations are respected and that, nevertheless, the meaning of this combination may be of questionable taste, even to make clear reference to racist movements, for example. Minister, in addition to respecting the rules in terms of authorized combinations, does the administration conduct a case-by-case analysis of applications? Are filters in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u10	Dear colleague, every request for a personalized plate is actually analysed by a staff member of the Directorate for Vehicle Registration (DIV) according to the following procedure: the citizen who wishes to apply for a personalized plate first checks whether the desired plate is still available via the online application of the Mobility and Transport FPS provided for this purpose. It can then request the combination available via the same application. The application then comes to an IVD employee who analyses the combination and validates it after a positive assessment. The applicant is notified of this and at the same time receives an invitation to pay. If the IVD employee has not validated the combination, the applicant is also informed. Furthermore, in the event that an offensive plate has nevertheless been granted by the IVD, the regulation provides that the IVD may recall and delete any combination of which the offensive, insulting, racist or xenophobic character of which has been subject to a complaint, without any compensation being required from the holder. Such a case has been reported to me recently and the regulations in force will be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u11	Minister, thank you for this information and clarification. I had seen a combination of plaques on Facebook, which interlocked me. I wanted to know whether this was an error and the procedure in that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u12	Mr Minister, I have once again put a question on the defective equipment at SNCB because it appears in the punctuality barometer as one of the causes of the reduced punctuality and the abolition of trains. I will come to my questions immediately. What is the exact proportion of the defective equipment in the delays and abolitions in the last punctuality report? How long does an average train set stay out of service? Which train sets have the most problems? Why is a lot of equipment defective and not usable? Are there any problems with the number of spare parts? Is the maintenance postponed? Are there any contracts with external contractors? I hear stories from the studios that because of this part of the works would not or would not be performed properly. Which works are performed in our own studios?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u13	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that in October 2018 it was responsible for 30.4 % of the number of delays on the network. 21.9 % will be charged to the equipment, with 32 453 minutes delay and 670 abolished trains. 260 trains were completely and 417 trains partially abolished due to material problems. The average repair time of a defective vehicle in the workshops is one to two days and depends heavily on the complexity and severity of the damage. For example, simple damage could be repaired in a few hours. However, complex damage, with more labour-intensive repairs, takes a longer time. I am thinking of repairs after collisions. In addition, small repairs and depannages are carried out on the trains while they are used. The greatest number of problems, based on the number of incidents and on the number of incidents per million kilometres, occur in the older types of equipment such as the L27 locomotive, which was hired from 1982 to 1984, and the dual motor vehicles MR66 and MR79, which were hired from 1967 to 1980. These will be phased out by 2023. The causes of the equipment problems are technical failures, manipulation errors or external causes such as, for example, a failure of the infrastructure. Common failures include safety systems, external doors, traction systems, braking systems, couplings, etc. There are several reasons why the equipment cannot be available for commercial services. For example, we are thinking of maintenance and repairs, modernisation or overhaul of the train sets, modifications to the rolling stock such as the installation of the new ETCS safety system, which may require a longer immobilisation time. The above tasks are necessary to ensure the safety, quality, reliability, comfort, etc. of the equipment. The maintenance programme shall be carried out in accordance with the applicable maintenance rules. Various actions are ongoing to further improve the maintenance processes of rolling stock, with the aim not only of improving quality, reliability, availability and cleanliness but also of reducing costs. The objective of that multiannual action plan is to reduce the overall immobilisation rate of the equipment by 30% by 2021. For certain spare parts, SNCB does indeed have contracts with external contractors such as for the repair of toilet parts, the repair of components of inverters, the repair of traction motors, etc. Maintenance and repair work on passenger transport equipment shall be carried out in its own workshops.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It does not surprise me, of course, that the types L27 and the dual motor sets are most often defective. However, I also find the non-enableability of Desiro trains, for example, problematic, because they are new ones. You have said nothing about this today in your reply, but at other times you have already mentioned that newer trains, which have recently been invested, are also included in the immobilisation rate. Of course, we can only welcome the target of reducing immobilisation by 30% by 2021. For this reason, it is important that deliveries continue to take place. For the more recent devices, it is necessary to check where the defects occur so that they can be resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u15	Mr President, I would like to add that while the Desiros have caused a lot of problems at the beginning, especially in the winter months, today it is the least broken equipment: on average 18 failures per million kilometres compared to 45 failures per million kilometres for other types of equipment. Both for the M7s and for the M6 revisions, we're going to do predictive maintenance with a system that will capture the signals of the faults along the tracks by sensors. The train will send a signal, so that we will quickly know the nature of the breakdown. At present, rail managers and trade union organisations are negotiating to ensure that there is no longer necessarily an interview from 08:00 to 17:00 but to organize two or three shifts, so that the small breakdowns that occur during the day can be repaired at night and equipment available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u16	Mr President, Minister, every month, Infrabel publishes a punctuality report on the basis of several criteria. On reading these, I made several observations. Generally speaking in 2018, the lack of punctuality is intensifying on the Belgian railway network. More specifically, in comparison with the eight large non-Brussels stations, the punctuality at the arrival of trains is the most catastrophic for Liège-Guillemins. There was a drop to 68.5% of trains arriving at the scheduled time or within six minutes in September, compared to an average of 72-86% in the other months. Liège-Guillemins is therefore the worst student, lagging behind the other seven large non-Brussels stations. With regard to the Liège-Brussels line, while good averages can be considered during the summer months, we also deplore the fall in punctuality in September 2018: only 69.8% of trains at peak hours in the morning and 61% of trains at peak vespital times arrived on time. It should be noted that this line is used daily by thousands of workers. Another comparison shows that connections are less and less well insured at Liège-Guillemins station compared to 2017, with a fall to 79.4% in September. It also appears that, on the whole, the averages are the most critical at peak hours. Minister, these figures are very challenging. At a time when policymakers must be part of a dynamic of ecological transition, it is essential that more environmentally friendly and quality alternatives to cars be offered to citizens. At a time when the cost of fuel is increasing, especially as a result of the government's increased excise duties, and this creates great difficulties for citizens who are forced to tie the two ends at the end of the month, it is crucial that accessible alternatives to the citizens' portfolio be implemented. Since it is a public service, the mission of the service is to provide quality service to all citizens. It is not conceivable that citizens, who use trains at peak times to get to work, training or school, will be taken hostage by the lack of punctuality of trains. In 2017, during the presentation of the transport plan, you announced, in the province of Liège, that you would further develop the small links, in particular by reopening the stops of Chaudfontaine, Seraing and Ougrée, increasing the traffic of these lines and also reducing the journey time. That is a good thing, to which we fully adhere. How, therefore, can this plan be implemented if punctuality at the Liège-Guillemins station is not ensured since this station plays essentially the role of funnel with the lines of Brussels and of interchange between the more rural lines? In view of the poor results of the Liège-Guillemins statistics, it would be advisable to carry out an analysis of the results on all the lines joining Liège-Guillemins in order to quickly put in place the means necessary to improve the quality of transport. Minister, how do you explain these poor results with regard to the Liège-Guillemins station? What measures do you intend to take to improve punctuality? How do you intend to achieve the objectives you set out in the 2017 transport plan if the connections at Liège-Guillemins station are not better assured as well as punctuality? How do you intend to further encourage rural citizens to travel by train under such conditions? Could you provide statistics on punctuality on all lines arriving in Liège-Guillemins? Some of them relate specifically to the territory in which I live; here I am referring to line 42, but there are also lines 43, 125, 2, 36, 37, 40, 34. Do you intend to carry out an analysis of the punctuality of all the lines joining Liège-Guillemins and to put in place measures to improve the quality of transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u17	Mr President, dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that the poor quality in terms of punctuality in Liège is explained by several factors, among which the damage to the equipment and countless thefts of cables committed, initially, on line 2, high-speed line between Louvain and Ans, mainly between Hoegaarden and Ans. In addition, in the vast vicinity of Liège, trespassing and renovation work on line 37 Liège-Border towards Aix-la-Chapelle has had a significant impact on the Eupen-Ostende and Welkenraedt-Courtrai relations as well as on the L trains between Verviers and Liège. I'll give you a picture of the causes and responsibilities of the delays that was provided to me by Infrabel. You will find – Belgium's most critical location – that third-party causes on line L2, line 40 and line 125 reach 63% of the causes related to the degradation of punctuality following two phenomena. The first is the theft of cables, which can affect some weeks up to 1.2 million passengers. Then comes trespassing, especially in the Liège region. SNCB also informs me that it is taking the necessary steps to limit the number of incidents and their impact. Thus, priority is given to actions aimed at reducing the number of equipment failures by, for example, better repair in maintenance workshops, enhanced monitoring of equipment performance by means of?- Is that what you're saying? depending on the equipment – with feedback to the "train drive" service – the commissioning of new workshops in order to increase capacity and, finally, an action plan to reduce the number of incidents related to the safety system. That's for the rules that are internal to SNCB. Permanent attention is also paid to the need to make the first trains of the day leave on time. In collaboration with Infrabel, action plans have been developed to reduce the number of incidents attributable to third parties, such as personal collisions, trespassing and cable theft. However, we must be aware that, for this latter phenomenon, we had to strongly insist that all the actors – who had been gathered in 2011 during an important first wave – should meet in a committee chaired by the Federal Police of Liège. She and the local police, Infrabel and SNCB have mobilized the means to try to identify and dismantle one of the gangs behind these numerous robberies – sometimes three days in number. Finally, SNCB consults regularly with Infrabel to plan important work in the most efficient way possible to limit its impact on punctuality. The potential consequences of the work should be better estimated. In addition, train schedules must be arranged in such a way that they are not delayed in the construction areas. Infrabel, an infrastructure manager, set out a series of action plans to combat cable theft. In particular, the aim is to constantly raise staff awareness of cable protection and continuous vigilance. A feasibility study on the use of drones on the rail network during the night or the installation of additional cameras are also included. Infrabel is also developing action plans to combat the presence of people on and along roads, for example through communication campaigns at major events or preventive controls by Securail. With regard to operational difficulties during the work, the infrastructure manager shall ensure better internal coordination for the preparation of work planning and shall intensify consultations with railway undertakings for adaptations to train service. Other measures to improve punctuality are also implemented: campaign against lack of adhesion, periodic inspection and seasonal adjustment of switches, and implementation of a monitoring system to quickly identify defective axle meters. I give you a table showing the figures on the punctuality of the lines arriving at Liège-Guillemins station. The manager of line 36 follows the influence of all the lines that cross in Liège. In addition, I have decided to convene the Boards of Directors of the two companies (Infrabel and SNCB), in order to identify effective, structural, shared, coordinated and concerted solutions, and to raise awareness among the Boards of Directors as a whole on this issue, which I believe should be the first item on each of the Boards of Directors before the other agenda items. I believe that this is about the quality of rail supply, along with the safety and quality of communication to users.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u18	Mrs. Matz, for a reaction?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for the delivery of the documents and for your very precise answer, although I feel it somewhat tinted, on your part, in disarray with these figures. Just look at the colours of the table on the other lines to realize that, including on the line that arrives in Liège-Guillemins, it is the disaster, even though I have not yet had time to analyze the table line by line. I understand the plans implemented, but the punctuality figures we are talking about date back to September, which means that the measures that have been taken on the dismantling of networks and the targeted actions against the theft of cables, for example, have probably not yet produced their effects. I assume that the plan you mentioned was not in September and that Infrabel took this case with his arms. One can only be questioned, and sometimes even angry, in the light of these events. I hear in the tone of your answer that you are not satisfied either. We cannot preach everything and its opposite. Moreover, it is Liège-Guillemins, not Aywaille station or Gouvy station! Liège-Guillemins is an important transit place frequented by commuters. How do you want the citizens not to be in disarray about these punctuality problems? I hear that many measures have been implemented. However, we note that this work is not bearing fruit. On the other hand, I do not understand why cable flights are almost exclusively concentrated in the district of Liège. Why would these measures bear fruit in other places, even though not everything is perfect there either? I don't understand what's going on and I'm revolted. Are you going to put in place sufficient means to offer citizens something other than the increase in excise taxes without having an alternative to offer them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u20	The plan for the arrest of cable thieves dates from 15 October. Before that, two to three cable thefts took place every day, concentrated in the district of Liège and on the line between Namur and Gembloux, for reasons that justice should clarify. We thought the bands responsible for these flights were taking the cables outside. But, apparently, these are rather bands whose proximity to the lines has been demonstrated. By subtracting the causes of third parties, what is called punctuality after neutralisation is identical in Liège to the country's average. The phenomenon of cable theft has been particularly detrimental on this line. If we pull out the thirds, we're in the neutralized average.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u21	The result, however, is the same, and you will agree, minister. Whether it is theft of third parties or internal causes, it remains the same for commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u22	Apart from the fact that the liability of third parties is not the responsibility of SNCB. The train arrives late for various causes: suicide is not an internal cause, nor cable theft. But when the responsibility for delay lies with 63 per cent of third parties when 35 per cent is elsewhere, the traveller does not distinguish between the third party, Infrabel and SNCB, while those who have to deal with the problems arising therefrom are different people. The presence of a medical-psychological institute next to a line poses a problem at three locations in the network. We can't move the area or electrify the fences. There are therefore internal and external causes. Be aware, moreover, that the figures for punctuality for the month of October 2018 compared to October 2017 show that punctuality is increasing for various reasons and, in particular, because there is a decrease in the number of events of third parties. When we talk about internal or external causes at SNCB and Infrabel, it is the two companies that have to work to reduce their internal causes. When it comes to external phenomena, there are different ways to fight. Thus, to stop the gangs, it took some time for the authorities in charge of this issue to become aware of the impact it had on the population. As early as June, I asked the group to meet. Before that, it took some time for authorities that are not specific to transport to become aware of this. There are elements related to suicides that are very seasonal. You're a mayor, you know what's going on in your communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u23	Mr Bellot, unfortunately I am not a mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u24	No, but you're a communal agent. You know what's going on. There are mayors here who know what I mean. There is a great deal of cause and we need a lot of solutions. With regard to trespassing, incidents at railway stations, etc., we have passed the Administrative Fines Act. We hope that this will bear fruit. Very regularly, roads are closed because trees along tracks are not maintained, especially in winter, with the weight of snow. There are a multitude of causes and each cause must be addressed with a particular action. I wanted to say, however, that these repeated cable flights were very largely the cause of a gap between Liège and Namur and the other regions. The situation has finally been taken care of. I think ten people were incarcerated. Since then, we have almost returned to a normal situation. There is still one attempt from time to time, but more on the scale of the last few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u25	Minister, we will wait for the next punctuality reports to see if these causes, in any case a large part, are outside the statistics. I can only invite you, I think everyone will, to keep a closer watch on this punctuality. This is a particularly important factor for commuters, who are also required to make substantial efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u26	Minister, on line 162, many stations do not have electronic lane displays. This has implications for passenger information, particularly in Arlon, where it is necessary to change trains in order to continue their journey to Luxembourg. Engine noise sometimes renders announcements of delays, lane changes or deletions inaudible. Other stations are concerned, including Libramont and Jemelle. It seems to me essential that proper information be given to the passengers and that the tracks be equipped with a display, especially in stations where connections are planned. Minister, why do the stations in Libramont and Arlon not have a track display? Are there other stations involved? Is it possible to remedy this situation? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u27	Dear colleague, the screens at the stations are installed and managed by Infrabel. In general, the number and type of screens are defined according to the number of passengers. A minimum number of mounted passengers is required to install screens on the docks, and the Arlon and Libramont stations do not reach this number. At present, the Arlon and Libramont stations have the same type of equipment, i.e. a screen showing the list of trains at departure and a crisis screen in the train station lobby as well as in the under-lane corridor. In Libramont, the waiting room is also equipped with the same types of screens. In order to inform its passengers as best as possible, SNCB informed me that it had intervened with Infrabel to ensure that the docks of these two stations were equipped with screens with the list of trains at departure. The project is scheduled to be completed in spring 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u28	Minister, thank you for this good news. At last, correct information can be given to travellers in an audible way. I would like to thank you for pacifying this situation, which is creating problems at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u29	Mr President, Minister, the traveller has the opportunity to submit a request for compensation in the event of a delay in his train, in accordance with various procedures set out on the website belgiantrain.be. However, there is a question about cross-border trains. Indeed, I am contacted by users who tell me that it is not possible for them to obtain compensation for a cross-border journey that has been delayed by way of Arlon, for example for a Virton-Luxembourg journey or a Marloie-Luxembourg journey. As passengers are currently required to switch trains to the Arlon train station, the delay would not be calculated on the entire journey, either Virton-Luxembourg or Marloie-Luxembourg, but only on the part in Belgium. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, is this situation specific to the cross-border situation of Arlon which requires users to switch trains or is it generalizable to all cross-border trains? So if you confirm this information, what can be done so that all travellers can benefit from this compensation system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u30	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that the compensation system for cross-border travel covers a full journey, whether with or without correspondence. A passenger with a SNCB ticket who makes the Marloie-Luxembourg journey by changing train to Arlon will receive compensation for the total delay calculated on the complete Marloie-Luxembourg journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u31	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I am glad to know that the information was wrong and that the system of equity among all is well put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u32	Mr President, Mr Minister, even if the attendants are not directly involved, this issue is all the more relevant because, as you have probably read in the press, three Securail agents were beaten by some 30 people in Brussels North. To return to our attendants, we were all able to see in our stations the new awareness campaign regarding the insecurity felt by train attendants. An interactive display was placed at the main railway stations in Belgium, as well as posters depicting the photo of agents who had been attacked by travellers. Their portrait is behind a broken glass and SNCB users are invited to put their hands on it to "repair" the aggression. In 2017, assaults increased by 11% - 1,200 reported cases that resulted in 3,000 days of absence. In addition, since November 1, 2018, escorts can issue administrative fines to passengers without a valid transport document, allowing for legal proceedings. However, officers must wear a badge by which they are clearly identifiable. In Belgium, the choice was made to display the name and surname on this badge. Minister, while cases of aggression continue to increase, what concrete solutions do you envisage to ensure the safety of train attendants? Are additional teams from Securail being considered? Are there specific training courses for the attendants so that they can react best in the event of aggression? I'd also like to go back to the badge. I had already questioned you in October about this requirement to wear the badge. You replied that this was an "obligation arising from Belgian and European case law". Could you give me further details in this regard? Indeed, it would appear that in other countries names are not indicated on badges, which nevertheless allows for a response to case law and regulations. Is there a requirement to indicate the name and surname or other formality to identify the agents that could be put into practice? Why, if any, would a refusal to hear the request of train attendants who are now feeling insecure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some clarifications before answering your questions. Prior to 1 November, train attendants already had the opportunity to prepare minutes when they found a violation of the Railway Police Act. All these offences were then criminal. The big difference since then is that certain offences can now be subject to administrative sanctions without going through judicial proceedings. The act is always the same, except for that change. By obliging the attendants to identify themselves, the legislator has only aligned itself with the other occupational categories which perform similar functions of observation, such as communal ascertainors, police officers or securail agents. The SNCB constantly adapts its anti-aggression masterplan. The awareness-raising campaign that you mentioned is one of the recent measures in the plan. As I was telling you on 24 October, it is important not to amalgamate between, on the one hand, the attacks on trains, which have been increasing for the first time since 2011, regardless of the badge that has only been mandatory since 1 November, and, on the other hand, the badge itself, in relation to which I hear the fears of the attendants, which I have met. These are two different things. These two issues need to be analysed separately in order to provide ad hoc responses. In relation to the attacks, the strengthening of the presence of Securail on trains is part of the measures of the anti-aggression plan. The same applies to the ICTo teams (Tickets Control Teams). In relation to the wearing of the badge, I would like to point out that the law of 27 April 2018 on the railway police, article 25, first paragraph, 5, provides that the ascertaining agents identify themselves by means of a legitimation card, whose model the King sets for the ascertaining agents. The observing officer shall be permanently and visibly identifiable by his name. In this respect, this law is the same as the law on municipal administrative fines; we have not invented anything. This identification requirement constitutes part of the elements necessary for the exercise of the protection of the rights of the defence. It derives from the probative force of the findings drawn up by the observatories which, in certain cases, are valid until proven otherwise. It is also a European obligation. On the other hand, in view of the fears of the attendants, as the SNCB closely analyses the cases of attacks committed in its infrastructure, I asked it to follow the evolution of the proven cases of reprisals outside the professional sphere that would be linked to the wearing of the badge. It is therefore too early to draw any conclusions at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u34	Minister, thank you for your response. There are indeed several points. I am not saying that the badge is immediately linked to the increase in attacks. If it is that you understood, it was not at all the scope of my question or of the elements that I have developed, since this nominative badge has only just been introduced. On the other hand, I think that the fact that the attendants are increasingly being asked to sanction when it is necessary and that this is part of the way in which they are assessed brings more confrontational situations where they are put at greater risk. Securail agents are a good thing but I think that those who are often on the front line and alone on trains, especially women unfortunately, are the attendants and the train attendants. I believe that the training they receive today is no longer necessarily linked to what they are being asked to do. I do not believe that the attacks will decrease in the coming months or years if we do not take full measure of what is happening today. The badge, as I said at the time, is more symbolic. I don't know. It would be interesting to follow up on cases that might arise in the future, but it is true that I did not understand why, to the extent that this satisfied those in the foreground, there was no other possibility. Identifying an attendant can be done in a way other than by bearing his/her name on a badge. I understand that this is not the option that has been chosen. I deplored him in October and I continue to deplore him today. I think we just need to realize that on the trains, it is men and women who are facing these attacks. They're human beings. I think there are things that could be put in place, on the one hand to ensure that they can do their work without risking their physical integrity and, on the other hand, to reassure them of things that may seem to be quite modest as this question of badge. In my opinion, we could find another form of visualization. I can only regret that the demands of these workers are not being heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u35	However, it is important to know that if people do not agree to pay the administrative fine spontaneously - this is the case in 70% of cases - already before the badge was worn, when SNCB meant another act, the name of the person holding the badge was indicated! I was also sensitive to the observations of the attendants. No need to put a plaque with a name in a thirty character font on the jacket. The simple card, such as that of police officers or Securail agents, is in ID format with the photo, the B of the SNCB or the I of Infrabel, and the name. At a distance of 30 centimetres, you can't read it. We are obliged, by provisions relating to the rights of defence, to do so, and that is how it is for all agents. The increase in the number of attacks compared to 2011 is certain and it is independent of the wearing of the badge. I also want to keep an eye on this issue. I said to the trade union organisations and the associations of accompanying persons: if you identify yourself, ask yourself about any problems. I know a situation and the people I talk to know about it. One day, there was a problem between an attendant and a customer on a train. The customer took a picture of the companion with his smartphone and, within ten minutes, he knew where the person lived, by the simple photo and the following comment: "Do you know this gentleman?" In my opinion, a lot of actions are possible. The new Desiro trains are equipped with cameras. The images are recorded and received live by Traffic Control. Any act of violence against an agent of the SNCB, accompanying or not, is an act of too much. I will always be with those who will adopt the necessary measures to both rescue and help people psychologically when they are victims, but also to condemn these acts with the greatest force. This is also the meaning of the Administrative Fines Act so that the feeling of impunity does not develop.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u36	Mr Minister, that is also what I want, namely that these escorts and escorts can do their work without fear for their physical integrity, and with pleasure, which is the case for most of them, I think. That's what my group and I want. You will always find allies in us to move towards greater security for our agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u37	Minister, the press announced a few months ago that SNCB would launch a new sub-urban offer (S offer) within a radius of 30 km around Liège, Charleroi, Antwerp and Ghent. The aim was to provide local transportation in addition to rail relations between major cities. The AnGeLiC project (Anvers, Ghent, Liège, Charleroi) is thus implemented. In Liège, the S offer includes four suburban lines to Liège-Guillemins and serves 59 stations. In Charleroi, there are four lines – 52 stations pass under the S offer – against three lines in Ghent and four in Antwerp. The changes have already been incorporated into the route planning tool on the SNCB site. Minister, do you already have an initial evaluation of this new suburban offer? What are the first conclusions you can draw? Would SNCB have been aware of any problems in updating the information provided by the route planning tool in the event of disruption on the network? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u38	Mr. Kir, in order to give every chance to a new relationship to attract travellers, the government agreed that new relationships would be assessed as soon as possible when the new transportation plan was developed and only after two years of commissioning. Indeed, it is important to know that for a new line to mature, it takes at least two to three years. It is therefore premature to evaluate this new suburban AnGeLiC offer. I have already quoted a few figures in response to a question from Mrs Schlitz. There are 1,794 for Liège, a little more than 129 or 159 for Charleroi. I do not have the figures for the zones because I have not been asked about them. SNCB ensures that it will evaluate its suburban offer in order to make the necessary improvements, while keeping the demand for mobility and the decongestion of agglomerations by the AnGeLiC project as a guideline. SNCB informs me that it has not encountered any problems when integrating S supply data into its routeplanner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u39	Minister, thank you for the first elements of your response. I will come back to the subject in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u40	According to the press, in August last year, metal theft statistics went up again last year, despite the joint actions of Infrabel, the railway system operator, SNCB and the railway police. After a peak of flights in 2011 and 2012 and the measures taken to combat the phenomenon, the number of metal thefts is starting to rise: from 1,732 larcenies in 2016 to 1,833 in 2017. According to the federal police spokesman, Sandra Eyschen states that "copper is the metal whose price, abundance and availability are the highest, which is found everywhere and which is generally very unsecured". Therefore, the calculation of costs is, unfortunately, favourable for flights. It also notes that "these flights are dangerous for both perpetrators and users of infrastructure". In particular, it recalls that "if we touch on elements of the signs, level crossings could be disturbed, no longer function properly and generate situations with fatal consequences". Minister, have you been able to draw any conclusions from these figures? If so, what steps do you intend to take to address the problems raised by these results? What was the cost of repairs to these flights from 2014 to date, as well as the costed impact of the delay on rail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I regret and share the observation of the recurrence of the events, the extent of the damage caused and the overload of work for the personnel called for the rehabilitation of the damaged facilities and, lastly, the numerous delays that passengers have suffered as a result of this increase in the number of metal flights, cables at the operating sites of the railway network since this summer. In the face of this reality, I have acted within the scope of my powers, so that an appropriate response can be made with the help of my colleagues in charge of the Interior and Justice. In this context, I have personally called for the immediate establishment of a task force under the direction of the competent authorities with regard to the investigation and the measures emerging from the coordination of administrative police missions. A multidisciplinary approach to the phenomenon, involving justice, integrated police, SNCB, Infrabel and the Mobility FPS, has been developed and initiated in order to put an end to the actions of these offenders. The recent arrest of an organised gang, the result of the work of the Federal Judicial Police in Liège and the multidisciplinary approach implemented, has definitely hit the phenomenon. The plan of action against cable theft is also still under way: replacement of copper with aluminium where possible, embossed marking on the driver, change in the colour of the earth cables, awareness campaign... After a lull of several years, as a result of the implementation in 2013 of a task force and a national action plan, the number of cable flights has been rising since the summer of 2018. As a result, since June of this year, no fewer than 225 thefts have been committed. For the whole of 2017, the number of flights was 63. The consequences of the resurgence of the phenomenon are important in terms of safety, costs and punctuality, as well as for the image of the railway. I'll give you the chart showing the statistics, and you'll see that, as I mentioned earlier in my response to Ms.Matz, the number of minutes of delay that these flights generated was multiplied tenfold between 2017 and 2018, knowing that all flights were concentrated from June to October.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for this information. If I sum up your answer correctly, you call for a task force to be set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u43	No, I called the Task Force meeting at the end of June, it only met at the end of July. The federal police took responsibility, implemented various means and arrested the band that was operating on October 15, 2018, after a month and a half of investigation. Since then, the phenomenon has almost ended and the figures are in line with the averages of previous years. In three months of time, 261 flights were committed, which corresponds - if we extrapolate over a full year - to sixteen times the 2017 average.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u44	Minister, thank you for these additional answers. The work done by the police in the context of this multidisciplinary approach has borne fruit. The 2018 statistics will demonstrate this. I suggest that you go back to the issue with the figures in hand to see if new measures are needed or if we are going back to a situation that can be described as normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u45	Minister, recruitment would be one of the broad objectives of SNCB in the years to come. Indeed, the railway undertaking must recruit no less than 290 train attendants in 2019, while it has just recruited 185 of them in 2018. According to its spokesman, in order to fill the gaps in this sector, the railway company is therefore thinking of reminding recently retired or about to be accompanied. Minister, can you confirm this information? Can you provide me with an update on the commitments made by SNCB, by year and since 2014? Can you estimate the overtime worked by current attendants, by year and since 2014? What are, by year and since 2014, the targets set in terms of the number of full-time equivalents to be achieved in order to meet the necessary framework of train attendants at SNCB? What is the number of full-time equivalents of attendants actually on duty, by year, between 2014 and 2019? How many retirees do you think you're going back to work? In advance, I thank you for your answers, which I imagine will also be communicated to me by paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u46	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that it is actually thinking of reminding recently retired train attendants. The number of officers will depend on the number of candidates. I do not have a negative a priori on this subject, since, as in 2015, the rules for joint consultation are respected and this is done on a voluntary basis. I will send the requested figures to you in the annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u47	Thank you, Minister. I'll see about it and come back to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u48	Mr Minister, for the first time on Tuesday 4 September, an autonomous shuttle bus interacting with other users travelled on the public road with passengers. This first was organized in Han-sur-Lesse by the Vias Institute and yourself, in the presence of the Prime Minister. Since then, a minibus has travelled about 500 metres without a driver on board. Starting on 4 October last, a similar shuttle to Braine-l-l-Alleud travels 2.4 kilometres, almost five times as far. It will run from the hillside of the Lion to the Hougoumont farm, an emblematic place of the Battle of Waterloo. This second test is even more ambitious and technically more difficult than the first because of the presence of bends, a rather large slope on part of the course and the narrowness of the roads taken. They are also regularly frequented by cyclists and pedestrians, as well as farmers travelling by tractor to the fields. The shuttle detects all these users and adapts its movements accordingly. It will slow down or stop if there is a risk of a collision. This is still a pretty impressive first. Minister, what is your assessment of these tests? What are the other steps planned? Have you ever drawn up a timetable? What is the cost of such a measure? How do you intend to overcome the legal and psychological problems - which we have already mentioned here - inherent in this type of technology? What will be the impact of the generalisation of autonomous bus shuttles on road safety, mobility and transport costs for users? Finally, how will GPS work in tunnels, buildings or if no satellite connection is possible? Thank you for the answers you will not fail to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u49	Dear colleague, the tests resulted in zero accidents, with 2,500 people being transported. Technology has reached a very good level of maturity. Some tests remain to be done, especially during degraded weather conditions: snow, heavy rains, large frost, etc. Currently, an attendant is in the shuttle to regain control of the vehicle in case of a problem. In the long run, the goal is that the attendant is no longer in the shuttle, but in a room from which he will be able to control more shuttles. The project is financed by the agreement between the SPF Mobility and Transport and Vias. The budget for the whole project is 170,000 euros and includes the rental of the two shuttles, the configuration of the shuttles, the operator with permit D present in the shuttles and the cost of managing the project. At the legal level, it is difficult to answer at present because many issues need to be resolved at European level. The SPF will participate in the discussions on this subject. At the psychological level, the technology was well perceived by the people who tested the vehicle. The presence of an attendant also tends to reassure people. No conflicts were observed with other users. Thanks to good preparation, information to the citizens and good signage, we can say that the project has been well accepted. Vias is in the process of stripping the evaluation questionnaires and the results will be available at the beginning of 2019. In the future, people should get used to this type of vehicle thanks to the generalization of these vehicles. In terms of road safety, we can estimate that the impact will be positive. Perception technologies allow the shuttle to detect dangerous situations and its reaction time is really very short. In terms of mobility, these shuttles are primarily a complement to existing services and are intended primarily for a local service, the last mine. They will, for example, link a hospital to a station, which will increase the accessibility of public spaces to people with reduced mobility. The cost of transport has not been addressed. However the tests were done with the public transport service manager Keolis, which demonstrates the industry's interest in this solution and the existence of a business model. The vehicle uses the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), the GPS plus Galileo, the Glonass and the LiDARS-lasers to position itself. The first category consists of external signals, the LiDARs. Detection is done from the vehicle to its environment. By merging these two types of data, we have a precise positioning of the vehicle. Without GNSS, when the shuttle passes through a tunnel, for example, the vehicle will then use its LiDARs. Thus, in Braine-l'Alleud, the location is made thanks to the LiDARs on part of the course because the GNSS coverage is degraded due to the trees. The board card is a 3D map of the environment and its accuracy is paramount.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u50	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answers, which I will have the opportunity to analyse. I will not fail to return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u51	According to the press, the proportion of accidents involving the offence of escape would increase. More than 4,200 accidents with killed or injured occurred last year with the aggravating circumstance that an offence of escape was committed, i.e. almost one case every two hours, according to the statistical analysis of the Vias Institute. Accidents of this type are down slightly from 10 years ago (- 5%), but the number of accidents in general has fallen much more sharply over the same period (- 22%). Today, therefore, there are proportionally more accidents with an offence of leakage than 10 years ago (11% instead of 9%). The phenomenon is of particular concern in Brussels, where the percentage exceeds 15%, compared with 11% in Flanders and 9% in Wallonia. Minister, have you drawn any conclusions by Region from this analysis of the Vias Institute? What urgent steps have you taken to address this problem? Is there any further amendment to the legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u52	Dear colleague, in the press release that gave rise to the press article, the Vias Institute is based on the most recent figures available, which date back to 2017. At the initiative of my colleague Koen Geens, the Minister of Justice, and myself, the Road Safety Improvement Bill was introduced in the House and came into force on February 15, 2018. This law has significantly increased the penalties for escape offences, especially for accidents with bodily injuries. The Regions were obviously consulted, in accordance with the association procedure, in the framework of a bill. Given that the Vias study cited could not take into account the latest legislative changes, the conclusions to be drawn are limited and we will have to wait until the figures for 2018 and 2019 are evaluated before considering new measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u53	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u54	Minister, I still have a question about road safety. This is the signposting of zones 30 on the roads. This is a matter of great concern to our fellow citizens. Among the priorities of our people are cleanliness and security. In safety, road safety is often referred to. According to a new survey by the Vias Institute, published recently, more than one in four Belgians now live in an area of 30 and 85% of them are satisfied, mainly for reasons related to road safety and the limitation of noise pollution. In fact, six out of ten Belgians are also in favour of placing all the city centres in zone 30, provided they leave the main axes at 50 or 70 km/h. Nearly six out of ten Belgians believe, however, that zones 30 are generally poorly reported. This survey was carried out on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the introduction of the concept of zone 30 into the Highway Code. The first 30 zones were established in Uccle and Oupeye (Liège). On the basis of this information, what is your analysis of these figures? Will these results lead to concrete actions, projects or political initiatives? I know that jurisdiction is regional and also communal. However, do you intend to take measures or initiatives at the federal level to promote better road signs for zones 30?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u55	Mr Kir, zones 30 have been included in the Road Traffic Code for 30 years and are still an effective means of developing roads where the cohabitation of vulnerable users and motorized users is a less accidental source than on roads where the authorized speed is higher. However, in terms of speed limitation on non-autorotational tracks, the Regions are responsible exclusively for the installation of zones 30 and the signalling. I therefore invite you to contact them for their analysis of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u56	Minister, in cooperation with the Regions, are these subjects attracting the attention of the various parties? Did you discuss it with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u57	No, we're based on the Road Traffic Code. Secondly, the Regions have full autonomy in this area. In any case, they did not provide us with an analysis of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u58	Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u59	Last year, 10 road accidents were recorded every day in which a child under the age of 15 was injured or killed. Accidents involving children occur mainly at the beginning and end of school hours and in almost half of cases they are young pedestrians or cyclists. The largest number of victims is between 11 and 14 years of age. These figures are the result of a new report on children in traffic published by the Vias Institute on the occasion of the return to school. Minister, you have certainly read these figures. What conclusions do you draw? What measures do you intend to take to protect our children and minimize the danger?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u60	Dear colleague, I have read the statistics and conclusions of Vias' thematic report on children with great interest. It is clear from this that the risk of being involved in an accident is much higher for the category of users between the ages of 6 and 14, particularly as a pedestrian but especially as a cyclist. This is due to several reasons. At this age cognitive and physical development is more limited than for adults. Let us mention their shorter concentration periods, an even less developed perception of risks, a difficulty in dealing with a greater amount of information, a sense of limited perspective, their small stature which also makes them more sensitive. The study clearly shows that young cyclists from 11 years of age are a very high risk group. The recommendations of the study on improving child safety relate mainly to road education, awareness-raising and road infrastructure. It is the Regions, which are responsible for these matters, which are mainly concerned. Recently, during the campaign "I go out, I shine" of the SPF Economy relative to the visibility of cyclists and users of travel vehicles and conducted in collaboration with the SPF Mobility and Transport, the rules and advice on lighting and visibility were recalled. The federal government does not intend to adopt binding rules, but in particular encourages the importance of seasonal awareness campaigns conducted by the Regions on this subject. I actively support the development of the various vehicle technologies that will lead to greater protection for children and weak users in general, such as ISA (Intelligence Speed Adaptation), radar detection systems or automatic braking systems. With regard to the development of new vehicle-related technologies, my administration participates in the working group dealing with the regulation and details of the application of these new technologies at both the UNECE and European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u61	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u62	Minister, according to the Vias Institute, the proportion of people wearing their seat belts in our country has never been higher: 95% in the front and 86% in the rear. On the other hand, the belt is much less successful with commercial vehicle drivers, with only 85% of them fastening. Over the past three years, the increase in the wearing of the belt has prevented more than 40 people from being killed or seriously injured on our roads. Thus, on the occasion of the World Day of Remembrance of Road Victims, established in 2005 by the United Nations, the third Sunday of November in many countries on all continents, it is important to remember that users can also be actors of their own safety. Minister, this is good news. This is in the right direction and I am delighted about it. What is your analysis of these results? What do you think? Is the number of road accidents involving drivers of commercial vehicles increasing or decreasing since 2014? What factors explain these developments? Could you provide us with the number of reports to drivers and passengers for the non-belting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the rate of seat belt wear is increasing, which is a good development. It is clear that the 95% front seat belt, 86% rear seat belt and 81% commercial vehicles still leave room for improvement. As I have already mentioned in the answers to other questions on the same subject, I am relying on additional controls as well as on prevention campaigns to raise awareness of the wearing of seat belts. Road safety awareness campaigns are the responsibility of the Regions. However, in the future, we will communicate more clearly on the subject through messages attached to the minutes. At the back of the minutes you will receive will include recommendations that relate to the purpose of the offence you have committed. The number of accidents involving commercial vehicles is not taken into account separately. However, I can provide you with the number of accidents involving vans, which make up the majority of commercial vehicles. Following the latest road safety barometer Vias, the number of personal accidents involving at least one van in the territory of the kingdom decreased slightly: 1,800 accidents in the first half of 2014 compared to 1,763 accidents in the first half of 2018. It is very difficult to provide you with a unique explanation for such a limited evolution. In 2017, the number of offences reported by the police for the non-wearing of the belt and the non-use of child seats amounted to 59,978.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u64	Minister, thank you for that very specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u65	Minister, in July, the Vias Institute told us that last year, 16 accidents with killed or injured involved a phantom driver on the highway. This is more than in 2016, where there were 11 accidents, and it is even the highest number since 2009. Accidents involving a phantom driver account for only 0.35% of all highway accidents, but account for 3.5% of motorway deaths. These accidents are therefore really very dangerous, they are ten times more serious than all motor vehicle accidents. Over the past ten years, we have deplored 265 victims in total in 123 accidents involving a ghost driver, 41 of them killed and 224 injured. According to Vias, there is an average of one death every three accidents with a phantom driver. This one loses his life in one in five accidents. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you whether you intend to take further action on this issue. What are the penalties for the perpetrators? Do you think they have a sufficiently binding effect? Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u66	Colleagues, as I mentioned in a previous question on the same subject, Question No 17379 of 20 March 2017, the general measures aimed at preventing drivers from taking counter-way motorways and the solutions to combat phantom drivers are mainly infrastructural: design and construction of exits, lighting, special signalling, marking on the ground. These are regional competences. Moreover, the immediate dissemination of information is of great importance. It can take place either by radio control, by interrupting other broadcasts from national or local channels, or by GPS or other systems, such as Coyote, which also show a message on the display in the vehicle. Both infrastructure equipment and road information centres, in collaboration with the police, are regional. Driving counter-sense on a highway is severely punished. This is a fourth-degree offence. To date, a fine of 40 to 500 euros, to be multiplied by 8 for the additional decimes, i.e. a fine of 320 to 4,000 euros, may be imposed by the judge, who may also impose a disqualification of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of not less than eight days to five years. In the event of recidivism, fines are doubled. These penalties obviously have a binding effect. For radio-guides, it should be noted that only in Wallonia do automatic signaling occur when information is given by a telephone operator or otherwise. The Perex Center, in collaboration with the police, reports it. Fifteen days ago, over a weekend, two ghost vehicles were immediately isolated and hunted by the police. Accidents have been avoided. But in Flanders, this type of agreement does not exist. There was an accident. There was a phantom vehicle, but it was impossible to report it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u67	Is this also the case in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u68	I don't know if an agreement exists. These are regional agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Geerts has converted 27816 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u70	Mr Minister, the weather is mild at the moment, but last year the snowfall on 11 December created an absolute traffic record. According to Touring Mobilis, there were 1 280 kilometers of traffic traffic. What has remained with me from then on is the debate on whether or not winter tyres are mandatory. There were different views about that. Professor Johan De Mol of the Institute for Sustainable Mobility of Ghent University then worked in a radio program for a requirement of winter tyres for professional vehicles, trucks, vans and buses. Your reaction to this was that you would look at it and that you were actually in favour of it. However, a further study would be carried out on its implementation. Other mobility organisations, such as Touring and VAB, were not in favour of an obligation, but rather for voluntary engagement and campaigns in this area. A study by the BIVV concluded in 2013 that winter tyres are useful in extreme weather, but have only a limited impact on the number of injuries or injuries. Moreover, accidents on snowy surfaces cannot only be attributed to the tyres, the conclusion was in 2013. After the file record of 11 December last year, you communicated about another study on making winter tyres compulsory for professional vehicles. Is this study already there, by whom was it carried out and what were the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u71	Mr Geerts, no studies have yet been carried out on winter tyres on professional vehicles. First of all, it is extremely important that car drivers adapt their driving behaviour to the weather conditions by reducing the speed of driving and respecting the required safety distance. Vias' study mentioned in your question showed that the installation of winter tyres has only a limited impact on the number of injuries, as most injuries occur on dry surfaces. Moreover, accidents on snowy surfaces are not only due to tyres. An inappropriate speed, non-respect of safety distance and driving under the influence of alcohol can also cause an accident. In the case of freezing rain, no band is efficient. Winter tyres are therefore not mandatory, all the more so because their impact on injury accidents is limited. Also, accidents on snowy surfaces cannot be attributed solely to tyres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I only asked the question because it was unclear to me whether there was an investigation or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u73	We come to Question No 27823 by Mr Benoit Hellings. He's not here. We shall therefore turn to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u74	Mr President, Minister, I already asked you a question in 2016 about the faulty escalator of the Ghent-Dampoort station. I refer to Question No 14445. It was also the only escalator in the station. Not everyone is equally mobile and we clearly cannot ask everyone to take the elevator to and from the platform. You replied that, according to the maintenance contract with the firm, maintenance must take place at least six times a year, that the firm cannot quickly get to the necessary parts - the stairs are 40 years old - and that a purchase file had been started for the purchase of a new escalator. At the Ghent-Dampoort station, 5 000 commuters take the train every day. That's not nothing. Ghent-Dampoort is Ghent's second station and Ghent-Dampoort also gets a good score in the ranking in Flanders. This answer dates from two years ago. Meanwhile, the stairs haven't worked in months. I often take the train from Ghent-Dampoort. This morning I got on the train again and I saw that there is a gate in front of the escalator, with the message 'Temporarily out of service'. I think the term temporary means permanent. The rest of the service is also inadequate. Ghent-Dampoort is however an important station. You know that travellers have never been so dissatisfied with the service provided by SNCB. I do not think this staggering situation will benefit the satisfaction of the train passengers in Ghent. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, how many controls and maintenances at the escalator in Gent-Dampoort were carried out by the company in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 until today? Secondly, what is the state of play with regard to the purchase file of a new escalator? When will it finally be installed? What's the cost? Which firm is buying it from? Can you also explain the tender and the planned maintenance contract? Thirdly and here I come to the fundamental question, Minister. What is your position on the service that should be provided in Ghent-Dampoort on weekdays and on weekends?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that there is a maintenance contract with the company KONE NV, in order to fully respect our legal obligations. The contract provides for four statutory audits per year and six preventive maintenances per year. The replacement of the escalator in Gent-Dampoort is provided for in the framework agreement as a matter of priority. The government contract is ongoing. In the current timing, the replacement of the escalator will take place in the first half of 2020. The cutlery is in format. The tender request is scheduled for spring 2019, the order in autumn 2019 and the placing in service in autumn 2020. There's a 20-year maintenance contract attached to it. Meanwhile, a repair of the broken stair steps, which are 40 years old and need to be custom made, is planned in early January 2019. In addition to the renovation of the escalator, an adjustment of the lighting and the improvement of the quality of the bicycle storage are also planned. SNCB adds that the performance of the substation chiefs at Gent-Dampoort remains unchanged on weekdays between 6 a.m. and 22 a.m. During the weekends these performances are no longer established and the supervision of the Ghent-Dampoort station is regulated from the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. First of all, during each performance on Saturdays and Sundays, the permanence of Ghent-Sint-Pieters and a Securail team carry out check rounds at regular intervals. In addition, the Gent-Dampoort station has an extensive camera network that is constantly monitored. The number and guidance of persons with reduced mobility is coordinated from Ghent-Sint-Pieters, both on weekdays and Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays and is done by the B For You team of Gent-Sint-Pieters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for the figures. In general, I would like to make the following point. If SNCB wants to encourage people to use public transport, in this case the train, SNCB must continue to invest in stations. Ghent-Dampoort is no exception. The problems have already been raised several times here and are known to SNCB. For me, it is impossible for SNCB to allow such a simple escalator to function. I am pleased that you are now proposing a replacement for 2020-2021. I am pleased that in the short term, in January, the current escalator will be operational again after a maintenance operation. I really do think it is a bad signal, Minister, that this has been kept going for a long time and that this has left the travellers who need the escalator in the cold. I haven't talked about the very missed waiting room, you really should check it out. In winter, people can't even warm up there. My final remark. This station is an important station and deserves all the attention of SNCB and of you. The signals we have received from you so far sounded as if Ghent-Dampoort had come to an end. That's not true. I hope you will pass that message on to SNCB, because this is really not acceptable. This is not a service to passengers and commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u77	I would like to thank my colleague Emir Kir for replacing me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u78	Madam President, Minister, today the newspapers are full of a different theme. Last week, there was a lot of news in the newspapers about SNCB, particularly the satisfaction survey. It is good to consider this in this house too, because, as the previous speaker said, the satisfaction survey showed that only 61 percent of customers are satisfied. There is dissatisfaction about the punctuality and prices of the tickets. What may also be mentioned is that the train crew, the train escorts and the window staff scored well. We have always said that there is something very wrong with mobility policy when, as in our country, a subsidy of 4 billion is granted for commercial vehicles and a saving of 3 billion or 2.1 billion or 1.2 billion is made, I am not going to reopen that debate with public companies such as SNCB and Infrabel. That's why I have the following questions. SNCB recognizes the historically low punctuality and hits mea culpa. What will be done? In an interview with the press, the railway operator said that the saving policy is detrimental to the service. Do you and the government recognize that, too? When drawing up the management contract, will you take into account the new figures of the satisfaction survey and draw particular attention to the affordability of tickets and punctuality? Last week, in your policy paper, you spoke of an ambitious modal shift of passenger transport by rail from 8% to 15%. How do you propose to put that into practice in the current context? What fundamental changes do you think are needed to achieve this? This is an objective which I fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u79	Mr. Minister, you have certainly seen the satisfaction survey of 4,400 SNCB travellers. The result is frightening but is consistent with the reality of the figures. Of the thirteen parameters measured, all showed a decreasing score. Punctuality is of course denounced by travellers, whose level of satisfaction drops by 20% compared to 2016. Satisfaction is not the only indicator in decline, information to travellers is also pinned. However, just like punctuality, your predecessor, yourself and your government as a whole had made this indicator a top priority at the beginning of the legislature. This study has at least had the advantage of showing the attachment of travellers to the attendants. Indeed, despite the difficulties of the trade, their work remains widely appreciated and I hope that this element will put an end to the ambitions of those who want to see this profession abolished. This study is therefore a major disavowal of your government's rail policy. It is the clear result of the savings achieved by the abolition of posts imposed on SNCB. For the small story, you may have noticed that the only company that improves its satisfaction results with its users, namely STIB, is the one that precisely increases its investments. So, Minister, how do you explain these bad results? What is your assessment of the policy that you are currently pursuing? Do you believe that the savings imposed on rail have had an effect on passenger satisfaction? How do you think the SNCB could straighten the bar when no additional means are given to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u80	Dear colleague, I refer you to the question in plenary on 29 November. I would like to recall two points. Firstly, I would like Mr Geerts and Mrs Grovonius to leave the budget and accounts of SNCB and Infrabel to prove that the current government has achieved 3 billion savings. This government has saved $1.2 billion. The previous government had achieved 1 billion. While it achieved 1.2 billion savings, it also made one billion investments, bringing the investment budget from 4.3 billion to 5.3 billion. All right? I ask you, for the sake of accuracy, to provide me with proof that there have been savings of $3 billion compared to the formal decisions taken by the previous government. On January 23, you will receive the two CEOs and representatives of the companies to come and explain the punctuality. I confirmed it in plenary. I am not at all satisfied with the evolution of the quality criteria at SNCB. As I indicated in a response, I called the two boards of directors to tell them that the only priority that I have is to focus all actions around quality and service to clients and that all actions must be focused on the search for it. For a line that I know well and about which others have already asked me, it is important to know that punctuality is deteriorating for various reasons, we talked about it earlier. One of these in the Liège region was the theft of copper cables. It must be recognized that in many places there are slowdowns and other difficulties associated with massive investments that are in the process of being realized. This is particularly the case on lines 162, 96, 124 (and others). Infrabel made the choice of night work, which significantly increases costs. Night work is the one that least disturbs rail traffic. By day, however, there are disturbances on the single-track lines or on the tracks that are under work at night. Punctuality is degraded and there are lengthenings of travel times. I have asked the two companies to work together and, even if there are longer journey times, to respect the timetables that were announced prior to the work. I want them to present me, together, with a common vision of how things will unfold. I also observe that, on many issues, major investments have been reinvigorated. It is such investments that will make rail work tomorrow. In the meantime, I understand the lassitude of travellers because of the lengthening of travel times and the lack of punctuality. Travellers' dissatisfaction often stems from several related criteria. Thus, due to unsatisfactory punctuality, customers feel that the price is too high for the ticket they pay and the service that is rendered. I leave it to the two delegated administrators to outline the actions that companies will take internally at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u81	Mr President, I think we have a fundamental difference of opinion on the figures. I take as my starting point the Galant strategic plan in which the various savings were repeated and linearly put forward. You are assuming a fixed contribution to the railway undertakings of about EUR 2 990 000. I note, however, that this is a linear figure from the beginning of the legislature, which was not adjusted to inflation, while expenditure, wages, equipment and so on were adjusted to inflation. Therefore, the savings are greater than the delta you bring forward. I also see a 3 % passenger growth. That is good, but the transport plan provided for a 5% increase in the offer. Operating costs are increasing and need to be indexed, but that has not happened. Any failure to adjust the rate to inflation rates is de facto a reduction in available resources. What I see now in connection with punctuality and customer satisfaction reminds me of the period when then Minister Herman De Croo was responsible for the railways. Then the punctuality was absolutely not good either. I can only conclude that the subsequent governments, of whatever colour, have had to make an additional effort in investments and operating grants. That is my fundamental criticism. I agree with you that tomorrow's growth must be seen today and that the necessary measures must be taken. What I blame this government for is that the necessary choices are not made, although one knows well, also on the basis of the figures of the Federal Planning Office, which investments are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u82	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. We have already had the opportunity to hear from the CEOs on several occasions, as well as from other management and staff members of SNCB and Infrabel in our Infrastructure Committee. Since the beginning of the legislature, what I have heard, even if it is sometimes half-worded, is that we cannot ask companies to do better and more if we do not give them the means. However, the fact is that we do not give them these means. I find that it is a form of political cowardice to impute everything that is wrong with CEOs or companies, while from the beginning they sound the alarm saying that they will not be able to achieve the objectives you set for us and that there will be no efficient rail without the ad hoc means. I am a little appalled by this form of political cowardice. I don't think the CEOs will tell us anything else in a few weeks. We'll see. We can't bleed stones. It is impossible to ask companies to do a good job if we do not give them the human and financial means.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u83	Minister, we are not going to have a debate. The last word is for Parliament. There was a discussion on the budget. Members do not have to agree with you. The real debate will take place in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u84	Madam President, I will be very brief. Mr Minister, the concept of fume event was absolutely unknown to me. When changing the engine oil, contaminated or toxic air from the engines may enter the aeroplane cabin. This causes nausea, headache and confusion, an aerotoxic syndrome, which can have a long-term effect on health. I'm asking you the following questions as an absolute seemed. Has that happened more than once? Is this what all the airlines have to do with this? Is there a mandatory notification for this purpose, so that the data is collected? Apparently, a meeting of the Well-being Committee at Brussels Airlines would also be devoted to such events. Is there any more clarity about the causes? How can pilots best be protected? What measures are planned? Are there best practices among other airlines? Are aircraft manufacturers being called on the mat for this? I have also noted that in the United Kingdom the Department of Transport has carried out a study to investigate long-term health problems through fume events. Will you take a similar initiative with Minister De Block?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u85	Madam President, I take the time to put my question to the Minister. Many commercial jet planes use air from the engines to change the air in the cabin. As a result, the crew and passengers breathe in burnt oil fumes in the event of incidents. Exposure to emissions is associated with certain health risks. The effect of the oil vapours is related to that of the nerve gases tabun and sarin. Research with the cooperation of the airlines could help to establish links between the occupational and passenger health effects related to work. After all, every aircraft passenger and employee has the right to know what they are exposed to. Although the problem calls for a European approach, I believe that Belgium can play an important leading role. I therefore have a few questions for you, Minister. In the case of fume incidents, is there an obligation for airlines to inform all victims, passengers and cabin crew immediately and transparently about what has happened and what actions they can take? Are you in favour of regulation at European level to oblige or encourage airlines to install other ventilation systems, use less toxic oil and filter air better before entering the cabin? If so, at which meetings did you raise the issue? What reactions have you received from the other Member States? Are you in favour of systematic air quality measurements on Belgian airlines' aircraft? In reply to my written question No 2780 you said that any notification of such an incident is collected in a European database. The question is whether every fume incident should be reported by the airline. Are the data publicly available? Are they systematically delivered to the Belgian government? Will there be a compulsory Belgian-European registration system for all incidents? If that's the case, from when? What flight movements will be covered? Finally, are there any possibilities to speed up the examination of recognition as an occupational disease, which is not insignificant for those working in the aviation sector, particularly cabin crew? The problem also concerns your colleague De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u86	Dear colleague, if a fume incident is suspected during flight, the cabin crew shall be informed and alerted by the pilot. There is no obligation to inform passengers. The communication of flight-related events to passengers depends on the air carrier's policy. However, pilots are obliged to report the incidents to the authorities in accordance with the reporting system as defined in Regulation EU376/2014. That Regulation lists the actors to act in the investigations and manage and disseminate the information, as well as the resources and obligations to be deployed, inter alia, on confidentiality. The incident reports shall be submitted to the European Aviation Safety Agency, EASA, and shall be included in a European database. The specific data contained in this database shall not be accessible to the public. Each report shall also give rise to an investigation by the air carrier. The problem of toxic fumes is not specific to Belgium and is a well-known phenomenon in the aviation sector, particularly in certain types of aircraft. For example, certain incidents are related to a maintenance that can be improved. These kinds of events were discussed and an improvement is being made. This is part of a normal process of reliability under the European Regulation. The incidents of this type and the actions undertaken shall be monitored by DGLV. The Air Accident Investigation Unit has received the reports and has decided, having regard to the frequency of the incident, to monitor the file closely, in close cooperation with Brussels Airlines. So far, we do not have any information to conclude that the air carrier could have endangered the health of passengers on board. The accreditation of aircraft and the construction requirements that apply to them are a European competence. EASA is constantly working to improve aviation safety, including the safety of passengers and crew members. The different national authorities contribute to providing leading information to EASA, such as incident reports and the conclusions of the investigations. This makes it possible for the European Authority to identify new parameters and points of interest to be taken into account in the technical requirements set out in European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and technical answer. I understand that a number of databases are not publicly accessible, but I believe that it is essential for transparency to have an insight into the extent to which this occurs. I have not been able to tell from your answer whether our country, as in other countries, is clearly communicating, so that the EU Directive 376/2014 can also be applied numerically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I've memorized two cases. Firstly, pilots are not obliged to inform passengers and, secondly, information on occurrences is not publicly accessible. I think this is a problem. Both passengers and cabin crew have the right to know when a fume incident has occurred. We have seen that there have been a few cases at Brussels Airlines in recent weeks. This can have serious health consequences. We must not take this lightly. This concerns the health of dozens of passengers and cabin crew. We therefore call for this information to be made public, in line with the European Directive, for systematic air quality measurements to be carried out on aircraft and for a detection system to be established. We are convinced that this must be done within a European framework because Belgium cannot do so alone. Our country can play a leading role. I would urge you to include this in the European meetings together with your fellow Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u89	Madam President, Minister, I come back to the speed control marathon. I myself am a mayor and I am present in one of the police areas of Brussels. We have taken full part in this very successful operation. I would like the views of the federal government in this regard. From October 17th 6 a.m. to October 18th 6 a.m., the 10th edition of the speed control marathon was held. Citizens could themselves propose places where law enforcement would operate. The purpose of the operation was to raise awareness among motorists of the respect of speed limits for safer roads. Minister, what is your assessment of this 10th speed control marathon? We have learned lessons at the local level, but it would be interesting to hear from the federal minister on the subject. Are the penalties/ fines imposed in the event of non-compliance with speed limits sufficiently binding?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u90	My colleague, the results of the 10th speed control marathon are very positive. The Federal Road Police and 130 police areas carried out checks throughout the country. Only 2.54% of the controlled drivers were in excess of speed. In addition, this is the first time that the marathon has been monitored for its effectiveness. On marathon day, drivers were driving less quickly and the number of vehicles in violation fell by almost 25%. It is therefore clearly established that the announcement of speed controls and effective control have a considerable impact on the speeds on our roads. It is therefore essential for road safety to continue to carry out prevention and control activities on a regular basis. With regard to the initiatives undertaken to improve road safety, it is important to recall in this context the law of 6 March 2018 on improving road safety, which contains various provisions which certainly have a positive effect in the short and long term. The penalties for escaping have been severely increased. The responsibility of the holder of the registration plate has been more binding and we have expanded the scope of the obligation of the anti-start ethylotest. The latter will have an important effect during 2019, as it will be increasingly imposed as a penalty by police judges. You may have read in the press that yesterday, in Bruges, a judge summoned [r1] people for high alcohol consumption already applying severe penalties provided for in the law of 6 March 2018: Ethiotest anti-start, long withdrawal of driving licence, heavy driving fines. I am also referring to the draft new Road Traffic Code, which is expected to come into being next spring, which will clarify the traffic rules for the benefit of all actors as of 1 January 2021. It is also my wish to be able to send awareness messages within a few months, which will be attached to the minutes that all offenders will receive. It is essential that the authorities make every effort to counter an overly lax social standard in the field of road safety, especially in the field of excessive speed or driving under influence. I would like to add that I am actively supporting advances in the development of vehicle technologies that can, as is the case with anti-start ethylotest, limit risk behaviour on roads. To this end, I have concluded with Vias Institute and the SPF Mobility a convention allowing the implementation of pilot projects in order to know the possibilities of different technologies such as ISA (Intelligent Speed Adaptation), black box or autonomous vehicle. The ISA system is entering an area that will automatically put the vehicle below the maximum permitted speed. Overspeeds recorded during speed marathons are punishable, like any speeding, by penalties provided for in the Law of 16 March 1968 on the Road Traffic Police. In practice, most of the time, this will be an immediate perception, the amount of which varies depending on the speed and type of road. In agglomerations and in areas 30, residential or meeting areas, the immediate collection is 53 euros for the first 10 km surplus and then 11 euros for each additional kilometre and, on other types of road, 53 euros for the first 10 km surplus and then 6 euros for each additional kilometre.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u91	Mr Minister, in your reply of 22 October to my question on cooperation between SNCB and the Société nationale des chemins de fer luxembourgeois (CFL), you replied that there are two working groups to ensure this cooperation, in addition to the direct contacts which you yourself have with your Luxembourg counterpart, who has just been renewed in his duties. In the field, collaboration between operational teams is, according to CFL management, very effective. It made it possible to resolve positively the kyriella of problems encountered in mid-September. I have just learned, however, that there is no structured relationship between SNCB management and CFL management. Minister, do you agree with me that such a relationship is a prerequisite for better cooperation between operators, i.e. cooperation guided by a shared vision of common challenges in terms of standards, equipment, equipment, personnel training and communication. In fact, sometimes we think of passages to France or Switzerland that pass over the Grand Duchy, since there is no consultation at this level. According to this logic, can you invite Ms. Dutordoir to meet with Mr. Wengler and agree with him on a working methodology on certain issues, including the certification of SNCB rolling stock, the creation of a Park and Ride in Arlon – a project that has already advanced – and the harmonization of communication with the traveller and the press?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u92	Minister, last Wednesday, I was asking you about the Park and Ride in Viville. You then explained to me, concerning the direct service between Viville and Luxembourg, that neither the SNCB nor the CFLs currently had the equipment to ensure such relations. You also stated that the development of an accessory track in Stockem was necessary. On the other hand, with regard to the offer of trains to Viville-Stockem, you also explained that the offer could not be expanded until the end of the work at lnfrabel, in mid-2020. It is only from this point on that time that a service schedule could possibly be provided live to Luxembourg in cooperation with the CFLs, provided that compatible equipment is available. You also mentioned possible co-financing of the project by the Walloon Region. Minister, in rereading the answers you have given me, I realize that there is a lot of conditionality. While the first parking spaces were to be available in 2017, it is clear that the Viville-Stockem Park and Ride project can remain at the project stage for a long time. You decided with your Luxembourg counterpart on 21 November that the CFLs and SNCB would build a scenario for the organisation of a satisfactory offer via Viville-Stockem from mid-2020 onwards. I am a little surprised that this decision is only taken now, despite the many agreements already reached between the two countries. Several statements were made by you and your Luxembourg counterpart. What are the conditions for the completion of this dossier? Should new technical and financial studies be carried out? Which ones? How was previous studies not sufficient? What is the agenda of the meetings with your Luxembourg counterpart on this subject? The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg had also offered to finance part of this P&R. Is it still up to date? Under what conditions and up to what amounts? How many places could be planned for 2020? Would the commissioning take place in phases, as originally planned? What would be the sequence of these phases? I did not understand very well why the work between Habay and Lavaux prevented the sale of the furrow necessary for the commissioning of this P&R. Has the question of setting up a terminus in Viville-Stockem already been analysed and budgeted? Is there any provision for an accessory track in Stockem? If so, when? If not, why? Finally, are you going to ask SNCB to make compatible equipment available for this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u93	Dear colleague, I invite you first to refer to my answers on several points to questions No 27612, No 27992, No 27810 and to inquiry No i288 of 12, 13 and 26 November 2018. As I indicated to you last week, I asked SNCB and Infrabel to draw up a common sheet, as part of the discussions with the Walloon Region, on the financing of priority projects on the territory of the Walloon Region and possible co-financing by it. This sheet will take up the analysis of the costs associated with the various facilities required, including tracks and wharfs, for Viville. At the November 21st meeting, at which various issues such as the certification of SNCB rolling stock, communication to the traveller, punctuality, infrastructure work and the development of a Park & Ride in Viville were discussed. The question of taking over this Park & Ride by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg was not raised. In addition, the CFL and SNCB scenarios for the organisation of the supply from mid-2020 onwards will determine the number of parking spaces to be made available (200 to 2000). As already indicated, the constraints associated with the ongoing work between Habay and Lavaux do not allow a satisfactory offer to be made. Without an attractive rail offer, the customer is at risk of squandering the Park & Ride. The next follow-up meeting to the Letter of Intent was agreed on 20 June 2019. An inventory will be prepared at that time. Mr Piedboeuf, I have to tell you that there are three levels of consultation. Firstly, at ministerial level, we have the Gäichel groups. To prepare these groups, there are always high-level meetings between the various indispensable actors, on the CFL side and on the SNCB and Infrabel side. Secondly, there is the operational relations which must study the concrete aspects of each of the questions asked, whether it is certification, certification planning or work, knowing that we are four ministers concerned. Approvals do not depend on Minister Bausch or myself, but on Minister Ducrame and others. What we can do is act on the schedules and on the companies that supply us with ETCS equipment to be found in the equipment. All this was settled on 21 November, chapter by chapter, in the presence or not of Mrs Dutordoir and her Luxembourg counterpart. Whatever! The instructions have been given and it is on each stage of the cooperation that the decisions have to be developed. For example, the Park & Ride in Viville that was announced for 2022 has been advanced to June 2020; approvals for Desiros scheduled for the end of 2019 will be in mid-2020 and other equipment has been advanced by a few months. In the meantime, following the meeting on 21 November, service providers have been able to speed up supplies, following the intervention of the European ETCS agency, it seems, which has told service providers that their deadlines are far too long to provide a high-quality cross-border service. As far as the information on the dock is concerned, I have already told Mrs Goffinet that, in addition to the screens at the Libramont station and in the Libramont-Arlon Public Lobby, screens would be added at the docks at Arlon and Libramont. A number of decisions have been taken, but the work is continuing with all the difficulties that this may pose for travellers during their execution. In any case, we have ensured that there is more method, collaboration and coordination where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answer. In fact, I asked that question a long time ago, but it had not been joined. That is why some of the questions asked had already been answered. As far as existing relations are concerned, there is indeed political and operational relations, but we are sometimes somewhat surprised. This is, in any case, my case when I meet Mrs Dutordoir's counterparts in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, who sometimes fall off their necks. Clearly, there is not always a follow-up between policies and operations. It will therefore be necessary to pay attention to the fact that the subjects discussed in the highest political place are well communicated, in any case on the Grand-Ducal side, since you assured me that this is the case in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u95	Minister, I would be grateful if you would excuse me for having intervened again on certain points, but I did not understand or grasp everything. I understand that the deadlines have been advanced from 2022 to 2020. However, I remember statements in the press and all the questions asked by Ms.Isabelle Poncelet and it was then a question of 2017 and 2019. So I was somewhat blocked by the dates you mentioned. My speech is truly constructive and I do not want to think in 2020 about how this dossier, which is the subject of the study of the mobility development scheme of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, can be put into practice. It is important to move forward and that everything be ready, that it be really operational by mid-2020. That is, in any case, my dearest wish. As my colleague has said, method and coordination seem to me more than essential. As far as I am concerned, if I may, I would add the communication, which you had called for on the occasion of my last speech. I insist that you bring the mayors together to inform them of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u96	Madam President, Minister, we are being questioned by citizens about the abolition of trains between Libramont and Arlon from 9 December. Of course, it is normal and useful to be able to interrupt traffic to allow work on the line. However, have any alternatives been or will they be put in place? Has an organization with the Tecs been planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u97	Minister, we are being asked about this issue. We're starting to call this line "the cursed line." The work is important, but it has been going on for 20 years. I think it's normal for people to be a little angry. I asked you about the night work. You mentioned that this methodology saves time. You pointed out that, in particular for line 96/117, it was not envisaged to replace trains with buses, given the significant costs and the lengthening of the journey time in this case. Of the two trains involved, one was at 11:30 p.m. and the other at 00:03 p.m. I would be interlocked if it turned out that there was no replacement, even if it could be explained by the late schedule. However, passengers on line 162 would see their situation become problematic if there was no solution attached to the train stop at Libramont. This would be a problem both for people returning from Brussels to Arlon or Marbehan, and for travellers arriving by plane to Brussels and coming to Luxembourg. Solutions are needed so that people can continue their journey and not be caught off guard at Libramont station. Care must be taken to find a solution in case a train arrives late. Travellers should not be trapped. At present, if we leave Brussels to arrive at Arlon, Marbehan or Luxembourg, the last train in Brussels is at 7:34 p.m., which seems to me to be very early. It's more like the beginning of the evening. I would like to know whether a replacement by a bus takes place for trains which have been removed from Libramont by a special bus line which would arrive at normal times. I would like to know whether, after the work, the working hours will be maintained. A further concern for travellers is that, beyond 2020, there are no trains at all during these time slots. This situation is unprecedented. For two years, there was no possibility of going to destination.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the important work on the modernisation of Line 162, Infrabel needs to extend the "white work" on the line, which means the time zones free of any rail traffic, if work is to be speeded up. In order to minimize the impact on passenger traffic, Infrabel favours night or weekend work as part of its large-scale construction projects. The organisation of night work implies that the decommissioning of the tracks slightly interferes with the end of the evening. As a result, the ICs 2120 and 2121 connecting Brussels to Arlon will be limited to Libramont for the last train of the evening, starting on 9 December 2018. In such a situation, theoretically, there are three solutions available to SNCB. First, put buses in principle. Secondly, do not put on buses, as a matter of principle. Third, to apply a consistent, systematic, documented and client-oriented approach. Since the prediction of behavioural changes is difficult to make, it could be imagined that the company would run alternative buses for a trial period to properly document the subject before making a final decision. Finally, the choice of opportunities falls within the operational responsibility of the autonomous public undertaking and must be taken on the basis of the number of persons affected by these deletions, by the significantly longer journey times of the substitution buses, in comparison with the journey times of the trains, and above all by the rate of occupancy of the substitution buses during the trial period. I therefore expect SNCB to follow such a process to analyse each situation with the same logic, but without necessarily achieving the same result for each train deleted. I will therefore ask him that such a process be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It suits me perfectly and I share your point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u100	It is really necessary to put all the chances on the SNCB side to keep those passengers who are interested in the train and who might no longer be interested if the wait is too long. Putting in place a solution with buses and evaluating it seems appropriate to me. However, there is a need to communicate well about these changes. I would also like to point out that, contrary to the announcements that these changes will take place from 9 December, they have already been in operation for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u101	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 278, by Mr Van Hecke: Question No 27890, 27891, 27892 and 27895 by Mr Devin Mr Cheron's 27903 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u102	Mr Minister, I tabled this question following an initiative by the Dutch Railways on deportation trains. In the book Willilig Belgium I read the chapter on SNCB. In our country there were 28 convoys, with which 25 257 Jews and 351 gypsies were deported from the Dossinkazerne in Mechelen from July 1942, mainly to the concentration camps of Auschwitz-Birkenau. Only five percent of those people survived the horror. In the past a sober wagon was already installed at the Dossinkazerne. This black page in the history of our national railways is also considered in a very serene way in Trainworld. Germany, France and now the Netherlands are looking at what can be done with regard to the survivors of these victims. In Belgium, the Jewish community is also asking for an investigation into the role of SNCB. In 2012, the then delegated manager of the holding company, Mr Haek, recognised the role of the railways and apologized, but I think nothing has happened since then. The archives of the then Director-General, Mr Rulot, would still be in the possession of SNCB, but in my opinion they were never subject to scientific research, although it may be necessary to examine what the decision-making pyramid looked like at the time. I would like to stress that, in all the literature I have read on this subject, there are many individual actions of resistance by SNCB. Minister, would it not be desirable to first conduct a scientific study into the role of the Belgian Railways in the Jewish deportations in our country during the Second World War? Are you prepared to ask SNCB to cooperate or possibly instruct them to initiate that investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u103	Mr President, Minister, I fully endorse Mr Geerts' question. In the meantime, I have also read about the situation in the Netherlands. They were not prepared to pay compensation effectively from the outset either, and excuses were made earlier. At some point it was found that the Dutch Railways have made a lot of money on these transports. I assume that this will also have been the case in Belgium. It is argued that this income could be released for the victims and their families so many years later. As far as the questions are concerned, I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Mr Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the press that a debate has arisen on the transport to the concentration camps by the National Railway Company in the Netherlands. Neither SNCB nor my cabinet received an official application on that subject. If that request were to be made, I believe that historians should investigate the facts and the role of everyone in these dramatic events. It is only after such an investigation that conclusions can be drawn by the political or other stakeholders and/or actions linked to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u105	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will look with Mr Van den Bergh and other colleagues in this House at the possibility of drafting a resolution in the short term, so that something can be done in all serenity by SNCB, without making any accusations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u106	Minister, your answer is quite formal. On the other hand, the director of the Dossinkazerne and the Holocaust Museum in Mechelen explicitly stated that it would be desirable to clarify the matter and see what could happen. I believe that this is already a question of taking steps and investigating the matter. So that question is already there, at least informally. We need to look carefully at whether we should wait for a formal question from the victims or whether we can take an initiative to start things up. The initiative in the Netherlands will also get some feedback from us. The desirability of such an initiative will only increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u107	Madam President, Minister, currently cyclists wishing to park their bikes at the Brussels-Midi train station – the country's largest railway station – are very upset. The number of places for bicycles is totally insufficient. As a result, cyclists drive their bikes where they can and, as a result, create illegal car parks in places that are potentially dangerous to pedestrian and car traffic. For example, around the corner of the covered street and Fonsny Avenue in particular, cyclists are forced to tie their bikes against the railing, which is neither safe for pedestrians – as we have seen – nor reassuring for cyclists since many bicycle flights are regularly reported. You could tell me that there is a secure bicycle parking on Rue de France, but it is only accessible on a paid subscription, which is hardly very incentive. After talking to SNCB workers, it would appear that solutions exist, especially on the Fonsny Street side, at the corner with the Swedish street, where there is currently nothing to accommodate bicycles. And yet, there would be buildings that had been unexploited for years and would belong to SNCB. I repeat, a free and open bicycle car park seems essential in Brussels-Midi, as elsewhere, if intermodality is to be developed in the European capital. Mr Minister, is SNCB planning to build free and secure bicycle parking at Brussels-Midi station? If so, what are the proposed places and means? Is collaboration with Cycloparking possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u108	Dear colleague, the SNCB launched in 2016 the construction of a bicycle parking lot under the awning that runs along the big quadrilateral side of the Pensions Tower. The construction site had to be interrupted after the commune and the Region opposed this infrastructure. As a reminder, the public spaces near the Gare du Midi are the property of the Region or the communes. SNCB therefore does not have the possibility to develop new free bicycle parking in these areas in the short term, but it will welcome any initiative. In the longer term, opportunities for development exist in the covered areas under the tracks between Fonsny Avenue and the boulevard de l'Europe. Finally, SNCB intends to build more and more bicycle car parks equipped with access control, in order to give priority to ensuring a place for its customers and to reduce the risk of flight. For your information, a subscription for bicycle parking with access control costs less than 35 cents per day to its users.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u109	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think you tend to put the hot potato back in the Regions or in the municipalities! So that there is this incentive, it seems to me justified to set up free car parks, which is more so if, as you say, it costs 35 cents a day. In addition, if you want to reduce the number of cars in the city centre and, at the same time, improve the air quality and nerves of Brussels, offering a quality alternative is essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u110	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u111	Minister, I have a question about transportation management during last Sunday's event. The Sunday day, which was to be a celebration and a special moment for rail in a climate event, was unfortunately seen as a failure for SNCB. Many commuters stayed on the wharfs on the way back and the influx was such that the stations remained saturated for several hours. The SNCB had clearly not anticipated this situation well and its reputation is again long-lasting, even though it will be and is already one of the responses to the climate emergency. However, there were many signs of large-scale mobilisation: 16,000 "green tickets" sold in pre-sale, the cumulative Facebook events announced more than 60,000 "interested" people, plus 40,000 "participants" declared, 20,000 people had made the move to register on the action website 8 days before the date of the march and more than 30,000 at the end of the week. Participants should not be expected to come by car to a climate walk. While mobilization was much more important than hoped, the additional resources were totally undervalued. In Gembloux or Liège, for example, only one additional train has been planned for departure to Brussels. On line 161, the service to the intermediate stations has hardly been strengthened. The IC Antwerp-Charleroi composed of a single Desiro - which is already not acceptable in normal time - has remained in identical composition, etc. There are many examples. And the management of returns was also difficult. Of course, we are aware of the management of such an event, especially when it brings back twice as many people as expected. We are also aware that a train requires significant logistics: a driver who controls the available line and equipment, an attendant, a train able to ride, a furrow, etc. Nevertheless, there is a lack of foresight, as well as a lack of flexibility to adapt planning in the short term. In particular, on the return, once the exceptional number of demonstrators was known. Minister, what is the procedure for assessing attendance at such events? What was the original exceptional arrangement? Was it enough to accommodate the 30,000 travelers announced by the organizers? What actions were implemented during the day, once the number of demonstrators was known? How can we improve the short-term planning of the SNCB network?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u112	Mrs Schlitz, first of all, I would like to remind you that the organiser, when speaking in the RTL-TVI news on the eve of the demonstration, indicated that he would be happy if the participation in the event was 25,000 people. I'll send you back to their site. Second, it should be noted that for this Claim the Climate event, I asked SNCB to establish a Green Ticket, which was done. But I would remind you that the estimate was about 25,000 participants, some of whom did not come by train. SNCB informs me that on Sunday, 2 December, it conducted a permanent consultation with the police services, at various levels, following the influx. With regard to the journey to go, in order to transport the demonstrators, the SNCB received the first messages informing it of the overoccupation of several trains from 11 a.m. Several procedures were immediately initiated in-house, in order to manage the higher-than-forecast influx of participants to the event. The reception in Brussels-Nord was strengthened by the presence of police officers and agents from Securail. At around 12:40 p.m., the police ordered the imposition of a rail traffic stand and go at the Brussels North station to ensure the safety of passengers arriving at the station. The measurement lasted 15 minutes. As a result of massive and higher-than-forecast passenger traffic, SNCB has put in service four additional trains, offering 4,645 seats. The composition of a large number of trains has also been increased, bringing the number of additional seats to 11,000 compared to normal traffic. With regard to the return trip to bring the demonstrators back, travellers in Brussels-Schuman were advised to take the metro to the Brussels-Central Station or to take their train from Brussels-Schumann. A shuttle service consisting of two trainsets with a capacity of 1 000 and 750 passengers respectively has been set up between Brussels-Schuman and Brussels-Nord. The shuttles made this trip six times in total. In addition to this offer, another additional train with a capacity of 1,000 passengers has been put into service between Brussels-Schuman and Namur, in addition to the additional offer already planned in the morning. Measures have also been taken at the Brussels-Centrale train station to ensure the safety of travellers on their return journey. A stop & go of traffic of about 2h30 was also ordered there. SNCB tells me that I have responded in real time to the influx of travellers. I would add personally that, when such an event is scheduled in the future, it will be necessary, in the event of the sale of individual tickets, for SNCB to stop this offer no later than Saturday noon so that it can estimate the number of travellers interested in travelling. This will give him the time he needs, the day before at noon until the time of the demonstration, to organize his transport offer. It should be noted that a large number of tickets have been purchased from automatons and counters in the last hours and at the time of departure. Good for success, but it was far from these forecasts to hear the interlocutors. This experience will serve for the future. SNCB did both well and badly, and rather than badly, in the face of this influx that no one had anticipated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u113	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm glad to see some leads emerge from this day's evaluation. Indeed, perhaps stopping tickets the day before could help to anticipate this problem better. I have the impression that reactivity should also be assessed at the moment. You say that the SNCB has put in place some things, but the result is that the Brussels-Central station was closed for a long time, people could no longer return home and this situation was perceived as very chaotic. Consideration should be given to more flexibility for this type of event. To strengthen supply, it is also possible to increase the number of cars. If this is not possible, maintaining a series of first-class cars on trains may not be essential to the extent that the purpose is to be able to carry as many people as possible and that first-class cars do not maximize the number of seats available. I hope that further in-depth assessments will be made of this event.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u114	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 27966, 27967, 27968 and 27970 of Mr Van den Bergh are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u115	Mr Minister, last year there was some commotion at the beginning of the carnival season because drivers of tractors, who draw carnival trailers, should have a driving licence C-E or C(1)E, according to a note from Centrex and the parquet, with a corresponding medical examination. Article 20 §4 of the KB Driving licence provides that for motor vehicles and their trailers, which are used exclusively for folkloric events, and only exceptionally on public roads, a category B or G driving licence is sufficient, irrespective of the mass of the vehicle or the number of seats, provided that they do not drive more than 25 kilometres per hour. I do not have to point out to you that the carnivalists assumed that they could operate under this rule. You shared this view and opposed the police's position in response to an oral question I asked you last year. I converted this question into a written question at the time. I have received your answer, but it was never published in the Bulletin of Questions and Answers of this Parliament. That is why I am asking this question again so that there is a formal answer from you as a minister, which can then also be used to help the police. In your written preparation, it was stated that these rules should not be interpreted too strictly. If an agricultural tractor pulls a carnival trailer, you think it would be a combination of a tractor and a trailer, which is only used for exceptional, folkloric events. At that time, a driving licence G may be sufficient if it is used exclusively for carnival, with a maximum speed of 25 km/h and a municipal admission. In the meantime, I understand that last year's discussion is rekindling. Centrex police zones would remain in line with their position in the absence of clear interpretation of the rules. I therefore believe that it is appropriate, Minister, to return the interpretation of this regulation to this committee and to answer the following questions. Do you think it is desirable that drivers of carnival cars have a compulsory driving licence C1-E or C-E? Why is that? Why is that? Do you, as Minister, maintain the view that drivers of tractors pulling carnival cars can be exempted from driving licences C-E or C1-E on the basis of Article 20 (4)? Can you explain that to me? Given the difference in interpretation of the word only in Article 20 (4) between yourself and the police, is a clarification of Article 20 (4) desirable so that drivers of tractors drawing carnival cars can be exempted from those driving licence requirements? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u116	Royal Decree of 27 January 2008 on floats listed some exceptions for floats for folklore events. This met the aspirations of, among other things, carnival associations. That decision also introduced an exception to the licence regulation, which states: "For the driving of motor vehicles and their trailers used exclusively for folkloric events, and only exceptionally come on the public road either on the occasion of folkloric events permitted by the municipality, or the road to them or for trial trips for those events, the licence shall be valid for category B or G, irrespective of the mass of the vehicle or the number of seats, and in so far as they do not drive more than 25 km per hour." This rule also constitutes a very limited extension of the cases where agricultural and forestry tractors and their trailers may be driven by a driving licence G. In addition to the agricultural and forestry operation, these vehicles require a licence B, BE, C1, C(1) E, C or CE, depending on the maximum authorised mass of the tractor and the trailer, if any. In line with what I said earlier this year on parliamentary questions, it seems clear to me that the legislator wanted this exception to apply to all folkloric vehicle combinations, including those in which carnival cars are drawn by an agricultural tractor. During a folkloric manifestation, a driving licence B or G for this combination of vehicles is sufficient when it is used for towing a carnival car and in so far as it does not run faster than 25 kilometres per hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer that many volunteers will enjoy this International Day of Volunteering.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u118	Minister, an offer of bike-only pitches to the tune of 5% of the total number of daily travellers must be provided in front of each station. In Liège, however, we are below this rate. At the Guillemins station, the covered parking lot has been saturated for several months. Users told me they couldn't do it anymore. Every day, they can't park. Are you considering its extension? At Liège-Carré station, there is no provision for secure parking. The same applies to Liège-Saint-Lambert station. In addition, a covered rack is installed, but is under-used, as it is located in the SNCB parking lot, so far too far from the entrance to the station. As a result, it is not used at all by cyclists, so they have to manage to find a place. Finally, a project has been on stand-by for years. The plans of the Guillemins station provided - as soon as the project was developed - a cycle path to the rear to facilitate access to the station for cyclists. But this path has never come to light. This route was to lead to a new secure parking lot, which also did not exist. Minister, what is the status of this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u119	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that it has committed itself to an ambitious plan to provide parking for bicycles. By 2025, 50,000 places will be created. To this end, SNCB states that it is working to set priorities and prepare budget allocations. The parking lots at the railway stations will be part of the sites analysed and a project to extend the station to the Guillemins is already under study. In the short term, 48 additional places will be created in the covered parking lot as well as 48 additional places at the corner of Bovy Street and Varin Street. With regard to the project of a cycle path, SNCB informs me that it must finalize this route in consultation with the local and regional authorities in the framework of their cycle plan, but there is no precise planning established to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1009x.u120	Minister, thank you for this information. Good if it moves up to the Guillemins parking lot. It's really the most urgent thing. For the journey, I am a little surprised because representatives of SNCB came two years ago with plans finalized in the Bike Advisory Commission, as part of the Wallonia Bike Plan. This commission met regularly and now tends to fall into oblivion. We'd have to reactivate it. The SNCB came as if the work was going to start the next day but we have not seen anything coming and now I see that it is waiting for coordination with the regional and local levels while I think that these same levels are waiting for SNCB to move forward! I do not know on which side the situation should be unlocked, but I will not fail to refer to my equivalents in these different levels of power.
