ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic924x.u1	Mr Minister, this is actually a written question from December 2017 that has not been answered in time. So I was forced to turn them into an oral question. That way you can also come to this committee. I see that the President is also very pleased to see you again. Minister, as one of the three federal cultural institutions, the National Orchestra of Belgium (NOB) receives an annual donation to finance its operation. The amount was committed in 2016 for the duration of the management contracts. The coalition agreement stipulates that a thorough cooperation with the Koninklijke Muntschouwburg (KMS) must be further investigated. In your policy paper this year, you put a modernisation of the law on the National Orchestra of Belgium and the Royal Muntschouwburg. A possible more intense cooperation could be included. Firstly, what are the most important changes in the modernisation of the law on the National Orchestra of Belgium and the Royal Muntschouwburg? In what way will greater cooperation be formalised in the new legislation? Will it include anything on the funding of the NOB and the KMS? Secondly, how will the various stakeholders be involved in the drafting of the draft law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic924x.u2	Like the other two federal cultural institutions, the NOB occupies a unique place within the institutional, artistic, cultural and economic landscape of our country. At the beginning of this legislature, the government promised to continue its investment in the federal cultural institutions and to explore the possibilities for improving the efficiency that can be achieved through closer cooperation between the NOB and the Mint. Following this commitment, management contracts were negotiated and concluded with the three institutions, including the NOB. The contracts clarify the financial resources reserved by the federal state for those institutions. They shall also specify public service contracts entrusted to the institutions. Contracts shall also impose obligations on the budgetary balance and updating of management instruments, in particular by drawing up staff plans. In the context of improving the functioning of the institution and the NOB, I think it would be useful to modernise the law of the NOB and the Mint. The NOB's mission can be confirmed, but adapted to today's reality. The role of the Governing Board, the definition of the mandate of the intentant and the way in which a public budget is managed have changed since 1958 and need to be clarified. By the way, 1958 was the birth year of the Smurfs and the opening year of the Atomium and there are many events to commemorate on the calendar. A proper functioning of the orchestra also requires supporting functions. As far as artistic, administrative or technical staff are concerned, the management contracts require the NOB to provide me with the necessary information to be able to draw up the royal decree determining the remuneration of the staff. The procedure is running and an acceleration is essential in this respect. Practical support was also requested from my colleague in the civil service. It is a question of bringing together and clarifying the provisions for the establishment of the remuneration system and the administrative status of the staff of the NOB. This should enable NOB staff to make careers on the basis of clearer modalities. My first priority was the budget. Since the beginning of this period of government, I have argued in favour of not asking for real savings from the three institutions in general and the NOB in particular. I also advocated the introduction of management contracts. We are now trying to continue working, together with the new management, which should result in positive developments, including for staff. You have also asked how greater cooperation will be formalised in the new legislation. The management contract lays down the procedures for cooperation of the NOB with the Mint. The contract sets specific objectives for the synergies to be established by both institutions, together with Bozar, at operational and artistic level. The organic law of the NOB, the law of 22 April 1958, establishing the statute of the National Orchestra of Belgium, lays down the principle to be observed according to which additional musicians and musicians can be called upon to strengthen. This principle embraces that as much as possible members of the orchestra of the Koninklijke Muntschouwburg are called upon. But it's not going to be applied today. The law must therefore be operationalised. The law also provides for an agreement to be concluded with the Palace of Fine Arts, for example on the conditions of use for the Grand Hall Henry Le Boeuf and the cooperation and co-production modalities. As regards the financing of the NOB or the KMS, the principle of granting a grant is laid down in the organic law of the NOB and in the management contracts, which also determine precisely the method of calculating the amount. To clarify the destination, the amounts shall be broken down into three parts corresponding to the amounts to cover staff costs, operating costs and artistic production costs. All interested parties will be involved. In the first instance, it concerns the management of the NOB, with which the discussions are ongoing. Changes relating to staff will of course be subject to social consultation and submitted to the relevant sectoral committee. The management contract contains a set of commitments by the Management Board and management regarding the modernisation of the functioning of the NOB. I recently received an evaluation on compliance with the management contract carried out by the Management Board. I understand that the emphasis was initially on improving the artistic quality of the orchestra and implementing a much-needed positioning strategy, but progress must also be made on modernising the rules of procedure and the rules to be applied in the management of a public service. I would like to confirm that from the outset I have given priority to the protection of the three institutions in the area of the budget. Then I focused on correct management with a new intent and then on a management contract. My new priority is now the creation of a new board of directors, not just for the NOB but for the three institutions. I remain convinced that it is possible to achieve greater synergy between the three institutions. There has been a request at some point for a merger between the Muntschouwburg and the NOB, but I am thinking first of more synergy. That is indeed the case so far, even though we need to make even more progress in areas such as management and IT. I repeat that my first priority was the budget, then the management contracts and management, and now we are continuing to modernise a number of rules and a new board of directors for the three institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic924x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Of course, you have had a lot of time to draw it up. I understand the step-by-step plan for the dossier, but you should also be aware that there are a lot of questions on the ground with the staff. They have known for some time that reform plans are in progress and that everything is happening. It is important that we quickly clarify possible cooperation, statutes and funding in order to remove the concerns that exist at the base. I would ask you to take these final steps forward, but I may return to the committee in a few months' time.
