ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u2	Mr. Chairman, I note that there are no ministers on the benches of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u3	Yes, but when we start the climate debate, they will be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u4	I would remind you of the agreed speaking time: five minutes for the recognized and unrecognised groups. Mr Wollants, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are playing a strange game here, because we will now have an exchange of views for the future government, without knowing today what its plans will be. I am therefore more interested than usual in the answers, Minister. Unfortunately, today's exchange of views is taking place in the absence of Mrs Marghem, who may not have been able to book a private jet to Parliament. You'll be able to stand up for her, Mr. Prime Minister? After all, we read in the press that environment will be one of your important yards, in response to the Climate March, which we discussed last week. If I understand your position correctly, you want to make absolutely strong choices in terms of climate. Mr Prime Minister, it is of course not unknown to you that we in Parliament have also made strong climate choices over the past year, as in the regional parliaments. We have worked on a shared vision of the climate. It was the first time in history that four assembles eventually advanced the same climate vision. I understand that a fifth has now been added, because the German-speaking Parliament has also adopted the text. I had the honour and pleasure of following and guiding the interparliamentary dialogue process from start to finish as chairman of the special committee and as chairman of the interparliamentary climate conference. That was, moreover, a task which was specifically entrusted to me, over majority and opposition, by the members of the special committee. In the Flemish Parliament it was my colleague Jan Peumans who drew the cart and also the Presidents of the Brussels-Capital Parliament and of the Walloon Parliament did so. Prime Minister, the process has produced a text which many groups have referred to as ambitious. In fact, a good two months ago, when we discussed this matter here, the Ecolo-Green Group said that the vision for 2050 was the most ambitious text approved in a national Parliament, in Europe. Those were Mr Nollet's words. I say that for the meanwhile absent PTBs, who should normally have been in place. We see in the resolution a number of proposals and positions, including a view on the increase in the reduction target. At the request of your party, the MR, Prime Minister, and with our support, it states that if we want to increase this objective, we must take account not only of the results of the environmental impact analysis, but also of the socio-economic impact. This means that we have a text at our disposal, which is ambitious but also realistic. I realise that what was eventually entered in the text goes beyond what the MR wanted. Members who were present will remember the slightly hallucinatory situation in which the MR made a proposal with less scope, after which the interparliamentary consultation was continued on the basis of a growing consensus, while some members of the MR had already left the Chamber. The exercise on the table is a good combination of ambition and feasibility, which is an important aspect for many parties in the hemisphere and, of course, for us. It is therefore no coincidence that the text here in Parliament was adopted by a large majority: 95% of the Members of Parliament present approved the text. Not two thirds or four fifths, but about nineteen twentieths of Parliament accepted the text. I would therefore dare to mention the text adopted as being exceptional, historical and broad-based. Mr Prime Minister, last week we heard Mrs Marghem and you explaining the climate policy of the former government. At that time, you emphasised very clearly that that government took responsibility and showed by example how this was translated into an ambitious policy. For example, you referred to the issue of green bonds by Johan Van Overtveldt, together with the Minister of the Environment, and to the use of offshore renewable energy. Supporting a decision by the previous government will use all areas eligible for renewable energy. In my opinion, this can count in terms of ambition. Moreover, this will happen without oversubsidisation. That is a very important aspect for us. In the past, we have repeatedly called for better policies in this area and for less money to remain in place. That's what happened. It is striking that Minister Marghem's statement that 99% of the climate policy powers are in the regions, that the federal government no longer has the means to take further steps in this area, and that the Regions therefore have to take responsibility and do what they have to do in a state-of-the-art federalism, whereas the federal government does not need to do so. You have also mentioned that the opposition has spoken very fine words on the climate march, but that it clearly wants to make a caricature of it, because the policy of the previous federal government certainly stood for something, and that it is very easy to put a completely different story about it. Minister, we hear that you want to give new emphasis and that you want to be more ambitious. With that 1% power, you want to be more ambitious. With this 100% coverage of the North Sea zones, you want to be more ambitious. We are interested in what that ambition will consist of. You made it very clear last time that you are opposed to the caricatures that made the opposition to federal policy and today you say that you want to do more. You have decided on about three days, where you may have to make other decisions, that you will take a number of measures which, I presume, will not be caricatures. You must have thought carefully what that means, because you changed your mind, not in five days' time, but in three days' time. I would like to hear from you exactly where that more ambitious character is. Why should you deviate from the climate resolution adopted by 19/20ths of Parliament? What are you planning to do about this next week? Thank you for your clear position and look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u6	Mr. President, Prime Minister, on Sunday you said that the climate, together with purchasing power and security, is the priority of your new government. I welcomed your statement with relief but also with caution. With relief because I thought, "Finally!" Finally, the Prime Minister understood. It took four years, but better late than never. Finally, the Prime Minister realized that, far from the political wars that undermine his government, citizens have other priorities and other demands. I'm optimistic in nature. So, in your statement on Sunday, I also heard a desire to break with retrograde politics over the past four years. The retrograde policy of saving EUR 3 billion on the back of rail, when there is a desperate need to offer alternatives to individual cars. A retrograde policy which has steadily deepened our dependence on nuclear energy. A retrograde policy which has given us back to the bottom of the European class in terms of energy and climate. Prime Minister, as I said, I welcomed your statement with relief but also with caution. This caution is that of the one who does not want to be rolled into the flour because the words, the statements pass but only the acts remain. Prime Minister, on October 8, the IPCC experts presented their new report on the evolution of global warming. According to the IPCC, only strong policy measures can still protect our environment from warming far beyond the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. Once again, when we read this report, we see that the status quo is not an option and that a political reaction is needed. This political upsurge is not only indispensable in the light of scientific evidence, but is also strongly demanded by many citizens. This citizen demand was again expressed forcefully during the recent climate march, which brought together 75,000 demonstrators on 2 December. To respond to the climate emergency, a number of European countries, including Germany, France, the Netherlands and Spain, are calling on the European Union to review its objectives more ambitiously. The Netherlands is calling for a 55% reduction in European emissions by 2030. At the moment, Belgium is still not part of this coalition of the most ambitious countries. After Belgium's lamentable votes on the energy efficiency and renewable energy directives, it is time for our country, Prime Minister, to step out of its retrograde position and join the countries that are ready to do more for the climate. In the face of climate challenges, I ask you to make firm commitments to this House. That is why I expect firm and direct answers to these three direct questions. Prime Minister, does the federal government support, yes or no, an upward revision of the European targets to achieve a 55% reduction in European emissions by 2030? Is the federal government ready, yes or no, to change its budget to stop the austerity that has been on the rail for four years now? Is the government ready, yes or no, to increase international climate finance beyond the $50 million pledged at COP21 in 2015 in order to strengthen solidarity with the countries of the South? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u7	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, five minutes in the gallery to talk about such an important subject is obviously not very much - but a lot has already been said about the climate and there is still a lot to be done. At present, in Katowice, since yesterday, it is about 130 to 140 ministers who are present, who are debating and who must absolutely try to find a solution to implement the Paris Agreement. Personally and sincerely, I believe that it is still possible to achieve the goals that were set at COP21, but for that it is high time to re-establish. The citizens' appeal now ten days ago in the streets of Brussels - 75 000 people, when only 35 000 were expected - is an extremely important call. I was there. I think a lot of people here in the assembly were there. I do not know whether Mr Senesael and Mr Wollants, who spoke before me, were there, but I think it was extremely important, not only to participate in it to show our support for the anxiety that might still exist with regard to the climate problem, but also to be present to listen and to listen attentively to the concerns of the citizens and especially the young people who were present. Perhaps it should also be recalled that here in Parliament, although we can always say that we have not communicated enough, we voted together – almost all together – a resolution to go to COP24, a resolution that represented Belgium's position. However, I should like to point out that while all democratic parties voted in favour of this resolution, the extremes – always the extremes – did not want to vote positively and abstained. It's sad, of course, but it gives a certain idea of their climate design in the future. Our will is to act with pragmatism and I think the government has acted in this direction, so far. Some examples are extremely clear even though, as I often say in terms of climate, we can always do better. Last March, the government adopted a federal energy strategy which, for the first time, leads to a common energy vision that aims to respect the Paris Agreement. For the first time too, we have managed, all together, at all levels of power, to put in place a resolution and agree on it. It was a first. I would also like to recall the decisions taken in connection with the establishment of offshore wind turbines in the North Sea, which, by 2030, will produce energy equivalent to three to four nuclear power plants. This is obviously an important step forward that has been made by the current government within the federal framework. For the first time, a political agreement on burden sharing was also reached. This was not easy and required consultation. These will have to be prolonged. The creation of an Energy Transition Fund to support transition initiatives supported 26 projects in 2018, which required €30 million in investments. Belgium as a Member State of the European Union is one of the largest contributors to the Climate Change Adaptation Fund. This also enables us to deliver on our commitments to climate finance, and in particular to the more vulnerable countries. Finally, I would like to point out that our country has issued one of the world's first green state bonds. Through this, we have attracted more or less EUR 4.5 billion to finance transition policies in new sectors. I would also like to point out the will of the Walloon government to move forward, and among other things to solve the problem of green certificates, which has caused difficulties for a very long time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to say that we want to be the guarantors of progress in the field of climate and green energy, so that our country can be a precursor, in the future, of the changes necessary to meet the expectations of clean energy. Prime Minister, I have three very specific questions on this subject. Do you currently have information on the progress of COP24, and more specifically the ministerial sequence? Can you give us even more precise information about Belgian ambitions? How does the current federal government intend to participate in the climate effort? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, about ten days ago, 75 000 people were the biggest climate event ever in our country. I think this was a hopeful demonstration, a hopeful signal. It was a demonstration before a particular policy and not against it. It was also an expression of concern about our climate, the future of our children and grandchildren, in short, about the future of our planet. We all know that the climate threat is becoming more real every day. There's no time to lose. Efforts are urgently needed to reduce and reduce global warming. If we do not do this, it will have serious consequences for everyone in this world. I don't suppose anyone's denying this anymore. Europe has understood this. On the basis of a feasibility study, Europe has recently decided to increase energy efficiency targets by 32.5 % and to increase renewable energy to 32%. Our country is also aware of the need to strengthen our objectives. We have done this as a Parliament. It is not for nothing that an interparliamentary climate resolution has been adopted in all our parliaments, in which each parliament has asked its government to subscribe to the recently strengthened European 2030 targets on renewable energy and energy efficiency, so that a higher CO2 reduction target than 40% is set for voluntariously by 2030." As a Parliament, therefore, we strongly urge our government to join the dynamics of these tractors for greater ambition. We all agree on the need for an ambitious climate policy, on the need for additional measures to meet the strengthened medium-term and long-term objectives. So let us stop discussing who said what was true and who is responsible for what when it comes to certain votes. Let us, above all, join forces and go for strengthened objectives. Making stronger objectives is not so difficult in itself, but of course it is also necessary to translate them into concrete actions. The regions have the crucial instruments in their hands, but that does not mean that the federal government cannot or should not do anything. We need to pursue a supportive policy. I would have hoped that we were further on with it today, but we can work, for example, on developing a mobility budget. We can work on agreements on adding organic fuels. We can work on the development of offshore wind farms and, of course, on the Climate Action Plan. That's where we need to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u9	Mr President, I find the speech made by our colleague very interesting, in particular the reference to specific points. I am very pleased that Parliament can now take the lead, for example on the mobility budget. I do not know whether you have seen what the BBL has been communicating over the past few days, namely that it should not be about further flexibilisation alongside the cash-for-car system approved by this majority and that a cat was in a bag, totally inadequate. As far as concrete proposals are concerned, they should not only have a green name, but also be green. My very specific question to you is that of the BBL, which we have already raised in committee and in the course of our work. Will CD&V approve this? Will CD&V support the mobility budget as requested by green civil society, with a clearer, more performant outcome in greening or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u10	Mrs Almaci, you know it or not, but CD&V has been a pioneer of the mobility budget for a long time. The first bill on this subject dates from almost five years ago. Our starting points are clear and, of course, we will include these elements in the discussion of the present draft. Many elements of our proposal have been taken into account. The first concern is to place an alternative next to the company car system, with a greening aspect. It is now very important to launch the mobility budget and give it every opportunity to form that alternative, in the interests of our mobility and the greening of our mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u11	So the answer is no. I note that you will simply continue in the same pathetic way that has ensured that we have not been able to achieve any of our climate objectives in the last four and a half years. If you are serious, you will vote for a strengthened mobility budget. You now have the opportunity in Parliament to drop the brake on the N-VA and do what all those 75 000 people have asked for in practice. The question is whether you have that courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u12	In all possible actions for greening and climate action, it is, of course, very important that there is support. Of course, we can set the bar very high, but if there is no basis for certain measures, then we are not going to get ahead with it either. It is therefore very important to seek sufficient support for possible measures. Everyone has to go along with the climate story. We can't leave anyone behind. Social justice is also an important aspect of this. I'll make up my mind, colleagues. The objectives agreed at the Paris Climate Conference are the starting point for our climate policy. We fully support the provisions of the interparliamentary climate resolution, as Mr Wollants has just explained. We are also committed to a climate-neutral society by 2050, as required by the European Commission's new long-term strategic vision. All the measures we take to achieve these objectives must be supported. We can only achieve the objectives if the path to them is also socially fair. This is an important aspect which we must take into account in the new measures that are being put forward. Prime Minister, there were a lot of questions for you. In any case, the same principles apply to each government: we will have to make choices; we will have to make difficult choices and we will have to do so together. Good energy and climate policy is essential. Such a policy also ensures economic growth, more jobs and more quality of life for us, our children and our grandchildren. All these elements are crucial to us. A national climate plan that shares these concerns will receive our full support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we can have an exchange of views on the climate today. The signal from the people is clear: 75 000 citizens have made their voices heard in the streets of Brussels. The global challenges to combat climate change are enormous. We read that in recent scientific publications. We are also hearing this loud and clear at the international conference in Poland, including from countries that are already very much affected by these consequences. Last week, in my current question to Minister Marghem, I referred to the positive developments. There is the strong international agreement of Paris. Furthermore, there are the recently raised European 2030 targets and the EU strategy to become the world's first carbon-neutral economy by 2050. Let us not only go along with the alarming messages, but also highlight the positive signals. No, there's not just negativity. Our group wants to go along with this strategy towards 2050. For this we will actively cooperate in the coming months and years. We won't hide in the back or in the belly of the platoon. Among other things, we will have to use our knowledge and innovation to meet the big challenge. We believe in technology and progress, but we also understand that the population expects additional efforts in the short term, read 2030. In recent years renewable energy has accelerated again in Belgium. Energy efficiency and CO2 reduction of buildings and transport require appropriate efforts. Nevertheless, achieving the objectives is not easy. We call for an ambitious climate and energy policy, with our economy growing in line with the fight against climate change. We even want to look fully at higher objectives, but we also need to beware of unrealistic objectives. Is it better, for example, to scatter like the Netherlands with very high CO2 reduction targets of 49 % by 2030, while progress is being made with difficulty for 2020? This does not help themselves, the population and the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u14	Colleague, I'm confused. Today, your Flemish colleague Willem-Frederik Schiltz in Katowice regretted that the Flemish government did not support the ambitious statement made by a large group of countries at the climate summit. That large group of countries supports exactly what you're rebutting right now. You ask whether we should achieve a 45% reduction, while a large group of countries, in connection with which your Flemish Open Group colleagues regret that the Flemish Government does not support the ambitious objectives, says the opposite! What is the view of Open Vld? Is it what your colleagues bring up in Katowice? Or is it what you're saying here? How do you explain the difference with the remarks made by your colleague, Mr Flemish MEP, who has been recorded by the press, and with Mr Tommelein?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u15	Mrs Almaci, I expected your comment on Willem-Frederik Schiltz. He has clearly underlined that we too want to be part of the High Ambition Coalition, but we are in favour of realistic objectives. Indeed, we are very ambitious, but we also want realistic objectives. It is not because we are asking for more, that we can achieve that. I think this is very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u16	So you want to be part of the Paris Proof Coalition, which sets out the high objectives, but at the same time you say that they are not realistic. Then I find the N-VA more consistent. You bring nonsense here, of course. Either you want to fit in or you don't. Only one of the two choices is possible, not both. Do you want to be part of that ambitious group or not? You say yes and you say no at the same time. Of course, that is not how we will get there. That is very clear and it explains a lot to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u17	Mrs Almaci, I take note of your position. We must be very clear on this. We are aware of what is urgently needed and of the instruments and means that we can shape the Paris Agreement, how we measure it and how we want to get there. Let us therefore look more quickly at what is possible in the field of taxation, how we can possibly work with a climate budget, how we can create more synergy between policy levels and policy areas. That is why it is necessary for our country's four climate ministers to cooperate even better and more. Greater coordination of policies and positions can only be encouraged. I would also like to call on the parliaments to have greater access to the process. At present, climate ministers are meeting in Katowice to shape the Paris Agreement. As far as climate policy is concerned, we want to join the leading countries. But unrealistic objectives will not help us much. It is essential to bring citizens and businesses, initially European, but also international. The EU is now responsible for only 8% to 9% of global emissions. It is therefore important for us to draw other blocks of the world. Prime Minister, let us therefore look together at what is possible, how we can implement an ambitious climate policy, where we continue to achieve economic growth, where everyone is with us, or as an African saying: if you go alone, you go fast; if you go together, you go far, not what separates us, what binds us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that climate warming is one of the biggest challenges of the 21st century. It's been a long time since our bed show. Today, the average temperature on Earth is already one degree hotter than before the industrial revolution. This leads, as we all know, to social and ecological disasters. Even in rich Belgium today we already feel the effects of the climate, which actually has a fever. Think of the prolonged drought this summer. This is not because the Belgians have not done enough to adapt their daily lives. The time for individual solutions is over, and we must now deal with things together. There are parties in this hemisphere, ladies and gentlemen, who have not fully understood that. Believe me, the time for individual solutions is over. The richest ten percent of the world is responsible for half the emissions. All over the world, including in our country, it is the most vulnerable people who first feel and will feel the consequences of global warming. It is they who live in the filthy areas and those who breathe the filthy air. It is also those whose children have difficulty breathing and it is especially those who can no longer afford their energy bill. Prime Minister, on Sunday 2 December, as was said last week, 75 000 people were on the streets for a more ambitious and fairer climate policy. The evening itself promised to pursue ambitious objectives. In the week that follows, your coalition partner, who just in that endeavour was always on the brakes, is leaving your government. On Sunday you announced that the climate will become one of the three new priorities in your new government. You said literally: 'We want to make it clear that we did hear the message from last Sunday and want to develop an ambitious strategy together with the Länder'. That is very good, Prime Minister. Bravo! We will support you in that. However, we also know that they are fine words and that they are nothing new. Nothing new under the sun. After all, our question is what are you really going to do now? Or were they just hollow words, to smash the street protest into the head? If you ask us, you can do a lot in the short term. Let us perhaps start with the easiest thing, namely what you can do and decide at federal level and thus without the Länder. These are the federal contributions to the national energy and climate plan. The regions have already completed their contribution by the end of July 2018. For six months, however, there has been no progress in the matter. It is reported that it was the N-VA that did not approve the plan, unless there were new reductions on the energy bill for the large companies. Well, Prime Minister, you're off the N-VA now. I therefore have a whole series of questions for you about the climate plan, which you can now approve without the N-VA. My questions are as follows. You said you want an ambitious plan now. My first question is whether the adoption of the national energy and climate plan will soon appear on the agenda of the Council of Ministers? What will be the federal contribution to that? With what priorities do you want to convince those 75 000 climate protesters that you really want to make climate a priority, in the facts and not just in words? Were the many proposals, to which previous speakers have already referred, taken into account in your new plan from the interparliamentary resolution adopted almost unanimously, or are they part of a new federal contribution to the new plan? How will you do that? Is the legally established calendar of the core exit in the national energy and climate plan or in your new plan? Will the core exit also be a priority? Will you now work on the necessary preparations for the core exit? Finally, what does the national energy and climate plan say about a just transition? That is very important to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u19	Mrs Temmerman, you say that we would have stopped that plan and a number of measures. Can you give an example of what we would have actually stopped, where we would have held off the boat? I'm not familiar with these things. As for the core trip, I was in Katowice early this week. I attended a number of sessions there until I was recalled to this important assembly for the climate debate. In Katowice, the map was drawn very clearly in order to build as little new gas plants as possible, because we do not need it. I find it strange that you are here arguing for a nuclear exit and for the construction of nine to fifteen new gas plants. I do not think that is going to save the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u20	Mr Wollants, let us not repeat our numerous debates on energy and nuclear trip. It is well known that you, for example around nuclear trip, stopped a lot of things, that you attached a lot of conditions to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u22	By them, not by us. The government's gone. That's my point. The government is gone and you are no longer part of the government. This is now an opportunity for the Prime Minister and for the others. My question is, therefore, how is this ambitious energy and climate plan going to be shaped now that you are no longer there to stop it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u23	Mrs Temmerman, Mrs Almaci also wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u24	Mr President, I would like to support Mrs Temmerman following Mr Wollants' attack, asking what would have stopped the N-VA. If we in Europe voted against energy efficiency measures two days after the climate march, it was on behalf of Mrs Homans. That was discussed yesterday in the Flemish Parliament with Mr Bourgeois. Mrs Temmerman will agree with me, it is interesting that nuclear power stations are always used to conduct a debate on climate, while stopping all possible objectives in terms of transport, households, renovations and agriculture. The bulk of the debate on CO2 and greenhouse gases is in those areas, while the nuclear power plants are currently in shutdown and the N-VA has no alternative. I do have one: a gas plant, not so far from the border with the Netherlands. We agree with the opposition on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u25	Absolutely. I was talking about the need for a just transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u27	I would like to come back to a point that is very important to us, namely the just transition. Europe is also explicitly asking for a part to be included in this. That was also the demand of the organisers of the climate march last Sunday. Step 1 is for us, Prime Minister, the reduction of VAT on electricity. Both Minister Marghem and Mrs Rutten were in favour of this in the past. The opponent of a lower bill for the families, the N-VA, is no longer present. The road is now clear. Is there going to be a VAT cut now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u28	Mrs. Temmerman, you must know what you want. The conditions added to the federal energy strategy were precisely about the affordability of the flow. To make sure prices rise less. You have said that the N-VA is gone, that all locks can be unlocked, that money can indeed go there again without any restrictions. And now you come to tell me: VAT on electricity is important. You really need to know what you want. We in the N-VA have made it very clear that it is about security, affordability and sustainability, and you do not want those restrictions. You just want that nuclear trip, no matter what it takes. We're not going along with that. If you believe that these conditions will disappear and that it will not have to be affordable and certain, then you should above all argue in favour of them, but we do not agree with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u29	Mr Wollants, we are glad that you are not going along with this. You don't have to go along with that either. You don't see the government anymore either. Of course affordability is important to us. The question is how much the bill will increase if all nuclear power stations close. The question is also whether the affordability of our energy can be guaranteed in the future. The Prime Minister has already promised in the past that this increase will not be passed on to consumers. We'll see how this goes. It's not about the gas plants, it's about your nuclear power plants. We have been saying for years that they are too old and should be closed. We argued for an energy transition years ago. The fact that this has not happened, Mr Wollants, also means that the ordinary consumer will pay it again. We say that with a VAT reduction people can be helped immediately. In any case, we are not alone in our comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u30	Mrs Temmerman, I would just like to point out that it was your party that decided on the first extension of a nuclear power plant. Not you, but Mr Tuybens followed up on that file. At that time he said that by keeping Tihange 1 open for longer, our energy policy could be paid. The extension of the plant has made it possible to reduce costs for consumers. Secondly, there are indeed problems with those power stations which make them temporarily unavailable. Your proposal is to make them permanently unavailable. This means that you will have to work permanently with the gas plants that must now be used to produce electricity at a higher price. There will therefore be a permanent higher price. Ma'am, I don't think we're gonna agree. The study work clearly indicates that the total system costs will be considerably higher by shutting down the nuclear power plants. Keep the two youngest open and there is a difference of 900 million euros a year. That'll save you a drink. However, you must do what you think you should do, and I only note that these prices will rise. Now you are concerned about the higher costs due to the temporary unavailability. However, if higher costs arise from permanent unavailability, then so be it. That's what we're willing to do. Everyone's thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u31	I am not going to turn it into a debate on nuclear power plants, but it is really not this government that should organise a debate on the affordability of the electricity bill. In this legislative period, it has increased by EUR 100 for every family, with nuclear power stations that are out of date. Hang on, now we have the highest invoice in Europe, with your nuclear power stations. When it comes to CO2 emissions, the alternative to those nuclear power plants that are themselves shut down will be sought in emergency power boats used for developing countries and the re-use of jet engines. Would you like me to calculate the cost and CO2 emissions of this? The debate on nuclear energy on the part of the majority, the former majority or the one who was cheated or who was themselves adulterous, you meen fous. Please, stop it. It is not certain, it is very expensive and you are dumping our country and our companies only more into uncertainty. That is entirely your responsibility. Don't forget to take them. After all, that is the chorus of the past few months, competent for everything but never responsible. That's the N-VA as we know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u32	The first time we started screwing over-subsidising the solar panels that was right here on the other side of the building to make sure that there would be less cost in the invoice, Green said together with the Open Vld that this would be a very bad signal. The cost had to stay in it. One wants to remove from the invoice the debts that are being paid off, which were first blocked in the distribution network tariffs. Now you say that it is up to us and that we should have intervened much earlier. (Miss Almaci makes a rotating motion with the index finger.) No, you're not twisting me around your finger. You shouldn't be afraid of that. Now you're talking about the aircraft engines. Take a look at Elia's website. They've been used for ten years. You've never been worried about that. I would also prefer not to use them, but they are part of our flexibility. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u33	It is absolutely not my intention to turn any member of the N-VA around the finger, but when it comes to CO2 performance and electricity prices, the nuclear business model is bankrupt. The fact that no one wants to invest in it anymore bears witness to that. Only the N-VA lives in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u34	I repeat my question. Prime Minister, are you prepared to lower VAT on electricity? Will you make a statement of commitment to ensure that the total energy bill of the most vulnerable families does not increase further and that all future climate measures ensure that the burden is spread fairly so that the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden? Prime Minister, I have another question about the Consultative Committee, as well as my other questions about the national energy and climate plan. I assume you need CD&V to write down the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u35	Prime Minister, when will the Consultative Committee meet on the National Climate and Energy Plan? After all, we have to meet the deadline of 31 December to submit the plan to the European Commission. I hope that we will not be ashamed of ourselves again, as was the case last time. The date is very close. In two issues you can show whether you think it is a trigger for climate policy, which is one of your priorities. When will you consult with the regions? Will Belgium, at the climate summit in Poland, be in line with the eight European countries that aim to align the 2030 European targets with the Paris Agreement and thus increase from the emission reduction rate of 40 per cent to the reduction rate of 55 per cent? You promise to be ambitious. Well, then that is the objective you should be pursuing. Will Belgium explicitly support the European Commission's long-term vision of 28 November 2018 to make the European economy climate neutral by 2050 at the latest? Thank you and I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u36	Prime Minister, the hour of truth is approaching. This is also the case for the climate. You know that COP24 is in its second week and that countries' positions need to be clarified. For more than four years, Minister Marghem has kept playing, let me have a touch of humor, to the priest's maid. As in Annie Cordy's song: "I'd love to, but I can point! I can't follow you, Mr. Nollet, but I can't follow you, dear ecological or progressive friends, on your climate claims because the N-VA is in the government and it doesn't want what you're proposing. But if it's up to me, I agree. The MR agrees, the Open Vld and the CD&V agree, but the N-VA is in the government and you must understand that, out of solidarity, I can't." Today, Mr Calvo has just said, the N-VA is no longer there. Get off of me! Let go, Prime Minister! The hour of truth for the climate is just in the gallery, when you answer the inquiry. Three specific points no more! It is of no use today, in any case, to go into the details. Will the remaining federal government be in a position to enter the coalition of ambitious parties? Yes or no? This is the first point that has been claimed by 75,000 people and this claim has been borne by environmentalists and others since the beginning of the work? Are you going to join these countries, some of which you like so much to work with like Luxembourg or the Netherlands? Will the federal government now defend a position at European Union level, particularly in the context of the ongoing consultations in Katowice? Together with others, I have participated in enough COPs to know that every morning there is European coordination at which all positions are collected. Will the mandate you are going to give here – and Minister Marghem will have to follow – be to indicate that the Belgian federal government is in favour of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gases in 2030 and a 95% reduction in 2050? As far as the second part is concerned, there is no problem since it is included in the resolution – in any case, I suppose – which was adopted unanimously. But as far as the first part is concerned, if we look at the votes that have been taken at European Parliament level by the remaining parties of your coalition, we can see that all have adopted the target of 55% reduction at European level. As far as the Belgian translation is concerned, that is something else, but I am not asking you for it at the moment. I ask you whether, at European level, you will defend this position as your three parties do, through their vote in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u37	Finally, are you going to adjust the National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) – which is on the agenda of the Concertation Committee on 19 December – to the point I have just mentioned and to adopt a trajectory for Belgium that follows the European targets of ‐55% and ‐95%? Or are you going to refuse, on the grounds that the PNEC would be something secondary? However, it should be used as a translation for your position statement. Prime Minister, as I said at the outset – and to conclude seriously – it is also a time of truth for the climate. I would therefore like to hear you answer yes to the position of the remaining federal government, while your main obstacle is no longer there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u38	Mr Nollet, thank you. I must recall that the rule we had agreed to was that each group was entitled to ten minutes. You've almost exhausted them, Mr. Nollet. So, Mrs. Almaci, you're going to have to make an effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u39	Just one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u40	Wait a minute? I look forward to it. Let's face the challenge!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u41	Mr President, Prime Minister, I heard you just now and I was very pleased to hear you say that we cannot remain deaf and blind to the appeal of the 75 000 protesters and of all the children of whom I gave you the letters last week. I am grateful to you for that. In recent years we have remained deaf, blind and stupid on this issue at international level. Not only were we stupid, we also put a lot of weight on the brakes. Where are we on the agreed climate ambitions by 2020? We're not gonna make any. The climate plan, which is on your desk, is way below the bar. We know that Mrs Homans and the Flemish Government have put a brake on everything. That is even lamented by Open Vld. Is this hype or serious? If you're serious, you can only answer those people's questions last Sunday by approving the goals that fit in with belonging to that Paris Climate Coalition. That means being climate neutral by 2050. This means translating these strengthened objectives into reality. Something else isn't taking people seriously. You say you don't want to be deaf and blind. So I'm assuming you want to be on the right side, on the side of the people who are saying today that there is no planet B, of the executives who have asked in the Cercle de Lorraine to take this seriously, of the group of people you are asking to take action today. We have tabled a resolution. The Netherlands, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, Finland, Portugal and Spain are just some of the countries that are leading us. Are you going to follow their example? Will you support this climate resolution? Will you then work with us on a climate law and a climate budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have reaffirmed several times, particularly during the vote in this Chamber on the interparliamentary resolution on COP24 on 25 October 2018, that we want Belgium to return to the leading European countries in terms of climate ambition, which it should never have left. I believe you have heard, like me, the citizens who walked through the streets of Brussels on 2 December. What they want is to feel the pride of belonging to a country that pulls Europe's climate ambition upwards and not that slows it down, or worse, that sabotages it. This is good, today we are at the end of COP24 in Katowice. Mrs Marghem went there. With what ambitious goals and specific achievements will it return? That's my first question. Prime Minister, I remind you that this is the planet. It has been in existence for billions of years and will surely continue to exist for billions more years. But what matters is that it remains viable for humanity, for all humanity, wherever it is on this planet. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it would be totally unfair to place the burden of the necessary transition on those who are already struggling to complete their ends, who do not have access to sufficient public services and who therefore have less room for manoeuvre to change their behaviour. Prime Minister, apart from that, there is the fact that the environmental transition must take place with the citizens. It must take into account their daily reality, or be doomed to failure. Let's pay attention to it. It is therefore in view of this ambition to ensure a future for our children and all children that I claim here an equitable distribution of the cost of the energy and climate transition, knowing that it is never fair to charge more fragile people and households. In other words, we must make a decision on a transition that must be sustainable and sustainable. There is a way in our country, with your government and with our Parliament, to take a number of very concrete initiatives. These include housing and mobility, all those who are operators that prevent or complicate this energy transition. Even better, Prime Minister, while it is imperative that this transition is also an engine of social justice, it must also be a source of ambition and economic activity at the Belgian level. You who are attentive to economic activity, I draw your attention to the following point: we are a country where the labour factor is one of the most productive in the world, we have excellent academic and academic hubs, and their excellence in climate and energy is internationally recognized. Every effort must therefore be made to capitalize on our assets. Similarly, as we have already discussed in this House, with regard to security of energy supply, we want – and I would like to hear from you on this – to know your position on the capacity compensation mechanism. We do indeed ask that it be adopted as soon as possible and that the promise that you have repeatedly repeated in this House to get out of nuclear power in 2025 be kept. Let us not lose sight of the fact that households must not bear more than is strictly necessary in the cost of this mechanism. In this connection, I would like to reiterate the obvious fact that the cheapest electricity is the one that is not consumed and that this important mechanism to be implemented will have to give priority to the reduction and flexibility of demand. If this proves impossible, all possible ancillary measures, including all energy efficiency measures, will have to be put in place. The climate emergency and social justice also require the government to allow a genuine mobility choice. This is a third example that I submit to you that encourages alternative modes of transport to the car. Today, the government is punishing with increasingly heavy taxes people who actually have no choice but to take their car. It is time to create real practical and modalised alternatives based on the reality experienced by each. I would like to ask you three questions, Prime Minister. First, how will the ambition of this COP24 stand out from Belgium? Secondly, will the figures to be achieved and the objectives be upgraded as requested by the parliamentary resolution? What is your government's plan? Thirdly, what federal measures to the National Energy-Climate Plan will be proposed by the federal government since the work is to be returned to the European Commission by 31 December 2018? All of you, Prime Minister, are in a hurry to detect this ambition and move forward. In conclusion, I would say that it is only by opening the field of possibilities that everyone will be able to register, in his way and according to his means, with this objective that we all pursue: to ensure a better living environment for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 December this year in this House we had a broad debate on this subject in the wake of the large citizens' demonstration on 2 December, which brought together no less than 70,000 people in the streets of Brussels. First, Prime Minister, it is up to the federal state to be the driving force behind energy and environmental policy. It is the federative role that has not been sufficiently assumed by Mrs Marghem. This is the collective responsibility of the federal government. Secondly, the roadmap exists. On 25 October we adopted a resolution on Belgium's climate policy in preparation for COP24 with seventeen commitments. As a reminder, this resolution embodies the objectives of the joint declaration of 13 November 2017 for COP23 signed by the entire Inter-Parliamentary Dialogue Climate composed of representatives of all the country's parliamentary assemblies. At parliamentary level, Belgium therefore has a common position, but there is no doubt that ambition at federal and Flemish level is slow to materialise. The message displayed during the citizens' demonstration on December 2nd cannot be ignored. It is a matter of transforming the indisputable will that emerged from the demonstration of the 70,000 citizens who are calling on different governments to carry out policies that meet the environmental challenges. The climatologist Jean-Pascal Van Ypersele had issued a press call the previous day for the same reasons. The fight against climate change is a matter of societal urgency beyond partisan considerations. The latest 2018 IPCC report considered that in order to limit the 1.5 degree increase, overall CO2 emissions are expected to decrease by 45% by 2030 from 2010 levels. Net emissions of zero will have to be achieved by 2050. The evolution towards a low-carbon society, the substantial reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and investment in renewable energies require our country to fully subscribe to the 2030 European targets set on June 14, in line with the Paris Agreement – see. the proposal of commitment 1 – with a view to making the National Climate Pact binding. The future of the planet will not be assumed by the pastism of personal behavior. The fight for new growth, based on the ecological transition, is also a fight against all regressions. This environmental model, stemming from the Climate Pact, will be a regulator within the market economy. We are not among those who think that economic growth and the protection of the planet should be opposed, but those who are convinced of the need for social support and significant measures to be taken to meet the objectives. This necessarily involves confirming the exit of nuclear energy and the sustainability of renewable energies. It is time to oppose an end to non-receiving political and economic forces that always favour polluting and dangerous sources of energy. In addition to the development of renewable energies, care must be taken to reduce energy consumption, regardless of the source. This includes improving the energy performance of the housing stock. These include urgent measures to replace older and more polluting domestic boilers, which contribute more than 60% of the emissions of fine particulate matter. To this end, all innovative intervention initiatives should be given priority through fiscal measures or partnerships with the private sector. A genuine environmental tax shift is needed and requires taxation that calls for a waiver of behaviour that undermines biodiversity and the protection of natural resources. In particular, we are considering reforming the tax advantage of corporate cars. At the end of December 2017, the Belgian fleet had 5,735,280 cars, 1.2% more than in 2016. The average age of the park has increased further and reached nearly nine years. In 2017, 270,518 company vehicles were registered by the companies, compared with 253,824 for private persons. The modernization of car taxation in general in favour of coherent, inciting and non-punitive taxation must be a priority of this government. The environmental consequences of advantageous taxation of company cars are no longer to be demonstrated. Prime Minister, as we have already had the opportunity to recall in previous speeches, it is time for the objectives announced by your Government in the fight against global warming to materialize, but it is also, and above all, time for your Government to honour Belgium's international environmental commitments. Personally, I'll add this. You're Dad. I have grandchildren. We are very numerous in this case. Let's think about our children for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u44	Mr Carcaci, you have five minutes for your speech. Then we will listen to the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, the climate, the beautiful business! This great theme is used to hide the major social and societal issues. The paroxysm of dogmatism! The climate still deserves much better than the clichés you make of it. In this regard, I did not know that all universities around the world offered different courses to future scientists based on whether or not they joined the IPCC. Only IPCC scientists are listened to, the others are relegated to the rank of broken arms. You see them as climatosceptics, a point that's all! For the rest: "Circulate, there's nothing to see!" Yet, many studies show that man's share of climate variations is very small. You are remake the greenhouse gases of the early 2000s. The ozone layer has been restructured in ten years. Damn! And now you're attacking CO2 emissions, which, by the way, is a gas that makes the planet see again. To give you a good conscience, you want to take measures that directly affect citizens and that will curb economic growth. I now hear about climate justice. Think they're formatted, these greens! They do not have a monopoly on ecology. Of course, we need an energy transition, but smartly done, taking into account our citizens, our companies and our investors. That is why the People's Party, unlike other political families, does not run behind the ecologists who think they are the only masters in this field. We want common sense, intelligence, not stupid and unconscious dogmatism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we also had the opportunity last week to raise this issue. I have heard a number of arguments on this subject. During this debate, I had the opportunity to express a desire to be more ambitious in order to better meet the calls that have been made. Like you, Madame Caprasse, I am aware of the stakes for ourselves and for the generations that will follow us. I am also aware that these marches that have been organized, I said and I repeat, send a very important signal. I will try to answer as consistently as possible the various questions that have been asked. First, the Paris Agreement has set an extremely important framework and objective with this ambition to move below two levels. They became binding some time later. In March 2015, the European Union decided to commit itself to reducing emissions trading system (ETS) and non-ETS by 40%. As far as Belgium is concerned, our commitment is a reduction of 35 %, as you know. The question is: how far can we be more ambitious and how far can we be more ambitious? We will address some of the points by talking about them one after the other. First of all, the first firm and very important commitment that was made within the Benelux framework, just a few moments ago, is the Talanoa Declaration. This is an extremely clear, strong and clear statement which shows that we are choosing the side of ambition and determination, since it is a question of a decarbonised society and which in any case recognises carbon neutrality in the long term. We are doing this with the Luxembourg and the Netherlands partners. Several of you mentioned the interparliamentary resolution. Some of you have mentioned the assumption of going further beyond its ambitions: 50%, or even 55%. I want to be consistent on the subject. You acknowledged that this was a position that the federal government could introduce to the Consultation Committee. It is the government's wish to introduce this debate in the Concerted Committee to reinforce ambition, with the desire to take into account quantified and credible objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u47	However, Mr Nollet, I hope that you will understand this, because I want to be consistent with our previous debate. In the previous debate, I stressed that the government must be cautious in the light of the circumstances. That means that today I must have the assurance that a majority in Parliament would support the objective if I were to put a point on it in the Conciliation Committee. That is why I find it very interesting what you have done with your motion for a resolution in Parliament. We shall see whether it is possible for a majority in Parliament to support this resolution with a strong ambition. However, what is important in the current political circumstances is perfect coherence. I wish to be well understood: I confirm with a strong determination that we absolutely want to do more. Let me give you a concrete example. To meet you, the federal government is prepared to put that item on the agenda of next week's Consultation Committee in order to take into account a signal from a majority in Parliament. The fact that a group is proposing a resolution is an important point, but there is no majority in Parliament yet. I therefore assume that in the next few days we will have more clarity from Parliament as to where our ambition should be. That's a first point you understand. Yes, of the ambition and mandate for our COP24 representatives to consult constantly with the federated entities to be, in each of the discussions, as ambitious as possible, but in compliance with the intrabelgian institutional rules. That is our philosophy. Some Members of Parliament have asked very important questions about the national energy and climate plan. That is a very important challenge. There is indeed a timetable: Belgium must submit a plan before 31 December. The intention is to put our plan to the vote next week at the meeting of the Consultative Committee and formally approve it. I will try to propose with the government's partners in the Consultation Committee to do more in this policy area over the next few weeks and months, for example through a task force. This would mean that Belgium would be in good shape by 31 December with the current commitments and would work immediately afterwards on the implementation of greater ambitions. This implies in concrete terms that we should obtain from the federated entities that they too are ready to strengthen their National Climate Plan and Energy Plan for the aspects that concern them, and that the federal government also looks at the points that can go beyond what has been prepared so far, without waiting for a forthcoming National Climate Plan. That is what I hope, Mr Nollet, is an answer that corresponds to the consistency you wanted in the messages I give. As far as federal power is concerned, let us recall some elements because I know that it is sometimes in a good tone, coming from the opposition (but all this, opposition/majority, has become very relative in recent days in this House), to consider that what the federal power does is never enough and is even ridiculous or light. What is the reality? Some have mentioned, I stress, that we are one of the first countries in Europe and in the world to have launched, at the time of the One Planet Summit in Paris, the "green bonds", which have raised 4.5 billion euros in order to stimulate – and this is a very concrete point – projects directly linked to capacity-building for the energy transition. This is very important to us, Mr Nollet, because we believe that the objective of this energy transition must be to create an opportunity for economic development. Energy transition and economic development should not be opposed, but rather should ensure that there is this alliance between economic development, investment, employment, purchasing power, innovation and research. Indeed, we believe that intelligence, research, innovation and development will help meet this environmental challenge. This is a very central element. Another point relates to wind and offshore energy. Another point concerns wind farms. It was also our choice to double capacity. It is the equivalent of four nuclear power plants by 2030. It is a decision that has also been made, in comparison with previous legislatures, to reduce the impact on taxpayers' bills by dramatically reducing the support that has been provided and, despite everything, doubling the capacity in the North Sea. Biofuels are also a federal jurisdiction. Decisions have been taken to try to stimulate this sector. With regard to investment in mobility, more and better must be done. A first step has been taken since investment work has been relaunched at SNCB. I heard a few comments earlier. I would still like to remind you that when I took up my duties, the funds to finance the RER were empty. It is this government with Minister François Bellot that has regained an additional EUR 1 billion in capacity to boost investments on rail. We have to go on. This is the meaning of the Investment Pact which is regularly debated in Parliament, as well as in the Conciliation Committee. I am aware that there will be elections in a few months' time, and perhaps it is not obvious, but we need to answer the question of how we can use our taxation as a lever, as an instrument for mobility and strong energy choices. On several opposition banks, at Ecolo-Groen and at sp.a, the increase in VAT on electricity and the return to the rate of 6% were deplored. I have listened carefully, but I have not heard that on some other banks in Parliament. That leads me to conclude that, if we want a consensus, a majority for this choice in Parliament, we will still have to make a great deal of effort. Finally, there's another point that I care about. I have been informed, and I am pleased, that the representatives of the Regions are promoting the establishment of an inter-federal climate agency. Let's be clear! If it is simply an additional institution, I do not have the impression that this will make much progress. On the other hand, such an approach, while respecting the autonomy of the Regions and their choices, and assuming a federal government supported by a majority in Parliament - given the political situation - could create an area of structural cooperation and synchronization for a matter that is, as has been said, largely in the hands of the Regions. Mr Wollants has rightly said that, especially the Länder have the instruments in their hands. An interfederal agency, like some kind of new couch, that won't help. If it is rational, in the sense of working together more and more efficiently to achieve better results, then that might be an interesting signal. I am not taking a position on this today, but in principle, depending on the modalities, I believe that this can be a strong choice. Much has been said about the Energy Pact. There have indeed been debates in the government on the subject. But choices have been made and the exit of nuclear power is anchored in the law. It is indeed necessary to continue to work. There are three objectives. Firstly, security of supply remains a priority. We know that we must remain very alert in the coming days and weeks. This is still a delicate matter. Secondly, the prices. I believe that an energy standard would be welcome. It would also be a positive thing, and not just for the companies. We must have a debate on this with the Länder and in this House in order to be able to implement it. Thirdly, of course, I am thinking of international commitments. With regard to the release of nuclear power plants, comments were made on the issue of gas-fired power plants. I heard them. We must indeed see how we can make progress so that this energy strategy, which has mobilised the federal state and the regions, can be implemented and participate in this ambitious objective. One final important point. I have the impression that my experience over the last four years has been that Parliament is not talking enough about another sector with great potential for transition and climate policy, in particular the circular economy. It's the circular economy. It seems to me that this is an essential and fundamental subject. I am pleased that more and more companies, both small and large, are becoming aware of this issue, in which we can, at the same time, stimulate positive and fair competitiveness for our businesses and thus jobs and investments and, at the same time, make progress in climate terms, taking into account the reasoning behind this dynamic. I, on all these subjects, want to be with Parliament in view of the political situation in which we are, together with the Concertation Committee in which the federated entities are represented or with our European and international partners, able to achieve this ambition. I would like to give you an appointment next week in this Parliament for the debate on the resolution you have tabled. We will see what are the expressions of majority on this subject and this will obviously be an important signal to the government, given the circumstances. I also give you an appointment at the Consultation Committee which will meet next week and which will be an opportunity to strengthen, boost and boost the scale that the federal government wants to give to this ambition for the climate and on which I have tried to deliver a number of messages. Finally, I have heard some say that our country must be in the cockpit, with a strong ambition. That is why I support the Walloon Government's initiative to present our country as a candidate for COP26. I propose that a subsequent consultation committee should ask the Länder to support that candidacy. That would be a powerful signal that could strengthen Belgium's image.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u48	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, it is extremely important that we should be able to adopt effective measures. I note in the debate over the last few years that it is always about objectives and not about measures. In the special Committee on Climate Policy, we called upon the designers of the 2050 Pathways Calculator to consider which issues should be put forward effectively. At that time, I had to conclude that the issues put forward on the '95 %' route were absolutely not borne by the members present. Everyone should do the exercise and see what things are in it, including about comfort temperatures, the use of 40% biomass and that's more. We must take steps forward in this respect. Secondly, I note that at Flemish level, the Flemish Parliament has now completed its part of a climate and energy plan. It's ready over there. I haven't seen that before the federal level. I haven't seen that before Brussels and Wallonia. These are matters that need to be put on the table, especially since we have made a very clear demand in our climate resolution that the government should come to Parliament with the draft climate plan and involve Members of Parliament. In my opinion, we are still waiting for what will be effectively in the plan so that we can discuss it. Prime Minister, I am in favour of you bringing the draft to Parliament so that we can discuss it. That will of course be after next Tuesday 18 December 2018. Let's fixate on what needs to be done first. You may refer to it in your government statement. In my capacity as chairman of the special committee, I am always open to seeing you and Mrs Marghem in committee, in order to hear what specific proposal you have for achieving the objectives. I'm very curious about it. Then we can work on it, less in the thin and more in the concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u49	Prime Minister, in fact, as a reply, I will return to four essential points. First, we ask you to stop austerity and invest so that people can take the train instead of wasting time in traffic jams. We have quite often argued before this Parliament for a complementary investment in rail. We ask you to implement the Energy Pact to get out of nuclear power and move towards a model that would ultimately be entirely renewable. Above all, we call on you to implement the interparliamentary resolution and to join the most ambitious European countries in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Several of them talked about it. While you were speaking, Prime Minister, in Katowice, 26 countries signed an ambitious climate letter of recommendation. Two of the three Benelux countries signed this letter this evening, a few moments ago. These are the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Belgium was unable to sign. The federal government agreed with Wallonia and Brussels, and Flanders blocked. You quoted Jean-Luc Cricke. This is what he said to Belga: "The fire is in the house and the N-VA continues to play with matches." It is important that we try to speak with one voice. When I hear Mr Wollants say that Flanders has a climate plan, I regret that the N-VA did not allow Flanders to sign this ambitious declaration. Finally, Prime Minister, we ask you to stop this social tear, because the defence of the environment must go hand in hand with the improvement of the social conditions of the population. For us, there will be no fight against global warming without positive social development for people, and there will be no social well-being on a dead planet. This ecological transition, which we call for, will be solidary or not. Indeed, people will never agree to make more efforts if it is to suffer more injustice, inequality and insecurity. Prime Minister, as we have already told you, history will judge you on your actions, not on your talents at a press conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u50	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. It is clear that climate issues remain a central concern. I am very surprised by some of Mr Senesael's comments. It is very good to criticize the N-VA, but as the Prime Minister has just said, it seems to me that it was she who supported your motion no later than two hours ago. It's still very surprising. You're saying the masks are falling. I note, for my part, that they are indeed falling... It is very interesting! Having said that, let us return to the debate that is before us. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u51	You know, the truth has its rights. It is sometimes good to remind her – certainly in this chamber. Having said that, I wanted to point out that, two hours ago, in Katowice, Minister Marghem made a statement in the direction of a far greater ambition than I have heard here. She said: "In every corner of the world, the ambition we are demonstrating is currently insufficient. We owe it to our people, coming back from Katowice, to return to work with more ardour than ever." To this end, during the course of the day, Federal Minister Marghem and her three regional counterparts – Céline Fremault, Joke Schauvliege and Jean-Luc Crocke – organized a presentation. They referred to the words of the Prime Minister, a united Belgium that demonstrates its climate ambition and gives full meaning to one of the pillars of the Talanoa Dialogue. I encourage you to take a look at this information because it refers to the Agreements and the Talanoa Dialogue. You will realize that there is a real ambition in our country to go further in this area. Prime Minister, I thought for a moment that you were not going to relay the idea that had been launched to organise COP26 in Belgium. This is obviously an extremely important challenge, but it is also an image sent to the world about our country's climate ambitions. It is clear that this could be fruitful in that I understand that there is a willingness to continue the dialogue between the regions. On this point, I agree with Mr Senesael that a common agreement between the regions and the federal government will be needed. This can be done through a climate agency, which will allow, provided contacts are regular, to have a common position and defend, for the benefit of all our citizens and children, the future of our country and of our planet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u52	Prime Minister, I am still hungry. I feel that there is something of the order of oral conviction, but this, without commitment. Your remarks are devoid of numbers. But we are in the momentum. Mr Senesael pointed out the absence of Belgium among the countries that have signed to join the coalition of ambitious countries today. Belgium is not there! Even in your answer, you have not positioned the federal government in relation to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u54	If even for that, you say it's because you're careful, you're wrong! Mr Prime Minister, you are wrong because Parliament has already adopted a resolution on this aspect and it is very clear: it wants Belgium to go well beyond 40%. It does not yet mention the figure of 55%, but it has been adopted by all Parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u55	Mr President, as regards the quality of the debate and parliamentary cooperation, I would like to make it clear that when a resolution in Parliament says that we must go beyond 40%, that does not mean that the same resolution wants 55%. We agree. Mr Nollet, do not tell me that there is already a mandate given by Parliament to the Belgian Government to go to 55%. If you say that, that's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u56	Prime Minister, I say two things. I say, on the one hand, that the mandate was given to be in the ambitious countries, without mentioning any figures. This, you did not say in the gallery. Good if you can complete it. I'm not worried about that. I'm not looking for problems where there's none. There's already enough somewhere else. It is enough to interrupt me and say that the federal government is positioning itself for Belgium to join the ambitious countries. But I can see you're not interrupting me about this anymore. On the other hand, for 55%, you're right. I said that earlier in the gallery. On this part, the precise figure is not yet included in the resolution. That is why a supplementary motion has been tabled. On the other hand, in the resolution adopted by all - I would also remind Mr Wollants - the 95% in 2050 is in the text. This, Prime Minister, is a figure that must be found in the NECP, the National Energy-Climate Plan, since it has already been adopted by a majority in Parliament. According to the logic that is yours and that I can understand...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u57	Just for the quality of the debate, the 95% is in the resolution. I didn't mention them. You're right. What I wanted to say, and I repeat, is that when a resolution says more than 40%, it is not yet 55%. First point. Second point. I thought, but, apparently, I was wrong - it happens sometimes - to have made it clear that we are actually supporting the most ambitious objectives. I have said this several times in my speech. As you know, today there is a brake on the distribution of skills that leads to the obligation to constantly consult and coordinate, which complicates the situation. I am providing an answer to that with an inter-federal agency that could perhaps, tomorrow, do a more permanent, more efficient, more optimal job on the subject in question. There is, however, a new element that I am bringing, and I hope that Parliament will support this path by a majority. That is to say that, even if we do have what I wish, within the time limit of 31 December, to reach an agreement in the Conciliation Committee tomorrow on our PNEC, I think that immediately we will have to get to work to do more and to do better. This debate must also be conducted with the federated entities. We cannot, alone with the federal government, impose, even with the support of the federal Parliament, 55, 60 or 65 per cent. We must have this debate. As Mr Wollants says, behind the objectives, there are concrete measures. It is therefore important to say that we are ambitious and that there are 50 or 55 per cent, but we must first see what the concrete measures are and what they represent. I have not had an answer to this, but I hear some, who are also very ambitious, as you are and as I am, saying that VAT on electricity must be reduced to 6%. I have listened carefully over the last few weeks and months, and I have been rereading the statements you made when this decision was made. I think I know what you're thinking about this. That doesn't match. When we talk about measures, it's not superficial, it's very important and concrete if we want to be a little serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u58	Prime Minister, let us be positive. We have three points in our resolution. The first point concerns the federal government's position on the list of countries that are committed to being among the ambitious. You are now making it clear that the federal government's position is that Belgium joins this ambitious list of countries. The second point is the number of things. It includes part of the 55%. You say, and you are right, that no parliamentary majority has yet emerged. But that is why we are making a resolution. She's on the table and we'll vote for her, or not. Everyone will have to position themselves. But the second part, which covers 95 per cent, has already been adopted. You tell us that this figure will be well planned in the PNEC, since it was adopted. The advantage of the resolution is that it was adopted by all Parliaments and not only by the federal Parliament. I would not understand that this -95% component is not being followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u59	I'm going to be quite specific about that. 95 per cent are adopted by Parliaments, including this House. In view of the political situation, I will ensure that this element is relayed to the Conciliation Committee. You have understood that the federal government has no decision-making power within the Consultation Committee. The process must be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u60	What matters to me is knowing the position the federal government will take. You made it clear about the 95%. As for the 55%, we are concerned about timing, but there is a solution. The Consultation Committee was held on 19 October. Our resolution is discussed here, via the inquiry, on Tuesday 18th, and it will be voted on 20th. But you only send the text to Europe on the 21st. It's even for the 31st. You said earlier that you would send it on the 21st. It can be 31. So you have time to incorporate the possible vote – I am careful – that will have taken place here on Thursday, after the inquiries, recommending the 55%, to integrate it into the plan. If it is voted on Thursday, you can integrate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u61	I appreciate it because we're really going to the bottom of things. Each federal and federal entity details the measures to achieve a target that has been set. You can imagine that we will not, in three days, identify the measures that will correspond to the spectacular increase...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u63	That is why I should like to point out that if there is at some point in the Committee for Consultation an opportunity to go beyond Belgium's current commitment, which is reflected in the PNEC, we must immediately get back to work, and perhaps give ourselves a period of rigour. Maybe a few weeks. It will also depend on the political situation. If there are early elections, with the election campaign, it will be more difficult. This is the only realistic and possible method if we want to be a little bit coherent. To want a more ambitious objective without measures does not seem to me to be good management.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u64	Except that what is called for in the resolution is not 55 per cent for Belgium. That is to defend 55% at European level. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u65	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u66	No, I don't. I see that this is likely to slip. I'm not going to go any further today since we'll talk about it on Tuesday. If you are talking about hypocrisy in this area, I would like to remind you that all the partners in your current government have adopted the 55% at European Parliament level. If hypocrisy is to say that we are acting in this way in the European Parliament, but that, when it comes to translating it into Belgium, we are not doing it, it is at your home - and not at our home. If you want to go further, we can continue by referring to the positions that are adopted in the European Parliament but that are not applied - while the N-VA's excuse has fallen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u67	Mr Nollet, if we want to cooperate, we must remain calm. Having said that, I confirm my point. If we assume 55% and this does not have any consequences for our NECP, so that we should stay there, I do not think it is very serious. I persist and sign. On the other hand, if we go beyond the objective that has been set, because political will, a message from a parliamentary majority are expressed, then a mandate is given to the government to improve things. The natural consequence is that Belgium must also make progress. If the whole world has to do better, this obviously concerns our country. I think my proposal is more ambitious than Mr Nollet's. Indeed, in my view, if we raise the level of objectives at the inter-federal level, we must also adapt the measures in the following months. We cannot simply confine ourselves to the proclamation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u68	I can follow you on the idea that, if the 55% are to be adopted at a later stage at European level – which Belgium would intend to defend – it is obvious that the PNEC of all countries should be amended to take it into account. But at this stage, what we are asking is for the federal government to adopt this position and then see what Europe will do with it. If Europe adopts it, then we will introduce it at Belgian level. I conclude with two points: one for the attention of colleagues and another for your attention. We have tabled an inquiry that will be dealt with Tuesday and voted on Thursday, which deals with the same subject. I invite colleagues who have suggestions to include in the recommendation that will be tabled at the end of the inquiry, to come to see my group leaders - MM. Calvo and Gilkinet. After that, it'll be too late. Indeed, the text of the resolution will be tabled. Finally, Prime Minister, you referred to the circular economy. Perhaps you will recall my discussions with Minister Marghem about the planned obsolescence, which we reached an agreement on. But, again, "the priest's maid" – to repeat the expression of earlier – had to tell us that she was sorry, but that the N-VA being against, an agreement was not possible. Today, the N-VA is no longer there, and therefore, it is up to you to also include this part in the menu of what is feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u69	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. U zei "we have to do more". Just by saying this, you endorse the importance of climate policy. You mentioned a number of concrete elements such as a task force, tax opportunities and a new federal agency for climate change. You also referred to the circular economy, an element that Minister Marghem has already included in her policy paper, which has already been adopted. We can only give our firm support to this. Let us go together for an ambitious, positive but realistic climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u70	Mr President, it was a strong debate. This proves, above all, that this is actually just the beginning. A lot of words have been said, but the actions are not yet there. I've heard the colleague of the N-VA. The Flemish climate plan to which he refers has gone under the bar of the Flemish resolution. It's that simple. That has everything to do with their opposition. I can list all the examples in that resolution, for example with regard to phasing out the fuel engines, but I will stick to what the Prime Minister has promised, in particular that he will turn that page. Then the national energy and climate plan will indeed lie on his desk. The question will be whether the coordinating role of the Federal Parliament will really ensure that the signal will also be sent to the regions that if we want to fulfil our ambitions in words in action, they too will have to present another, much more ambitious, climate plan. I would remind you once again that I think the opposition will get out. The divide-and-control game that may have dominated the moods within the government over the past four and a half years is not present on the opposition side, at least without the N-VA. We are particularly willing to support the resolution next week. I think I will get that support from colleagues from the opposition, but the question is whether we will also receive that support from the government parties. Will we receive the support of the government parties for the three concrete points contained in the resolution? On the basis of your statements just now and last week, you can only say yes to that. If you say yes, you will then negotiate with the regions and Minister Marghem will move in a different direction. I can also reassure you about solutions. While there is a lot of debate about the differences between the different parties, I notice that there is a report from Transport and Mobility to green the whole transport sector. That's very interesting! You should take a look at that. We are talking about planned aging, to name but a few; the text is ready. You just have to approve that. In terms of innovation and investment, we have looked together with you at BE.invest to see what is possible. When it comes to eco-taxality, you can turn the page of Johan Van Overtveldt, and remove the reluctance and obstruction to introduce European decisions after dieselgate by opting for clean engines. So much is possible and you will find a partner in us for that. However, let me make one thing clear. Without objectives, without paths, without concrete measures, you will not get there. Dare to approve these objectives so that we can work together on a path and discuss these measures together. However, if you do not want to do so with the necessary coherence, you will end up again in your current situation, fur and blue and without any result.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u71	Prime Minister, thank you. I would like once again to draw your attention to the fact that the interparliamentary resolution seems to me to be a road map to which we must try to stick as closely as possible with concrete measures. The road map contains concrete measures. They can be implemented relatively quickly. Prime Minister, the National Energy-Climate Plan is coming to the end of this month. We expect a lot. The federal government must add to the work that has already been done by the Regions. Since this energy-climate plan also includes energy, I had asked you a few questions, but they will come back, on CRM (capacity compensation mechanism), the energy standard and the energy strategy. These issues need to be resolved as quickly as possible, because deadlines to which the government had committed itself must be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u72	Mr President, in order to link up with the previous debate, these are indeed subjects on which either one can no longer decide and one is blocked, or there is a capacity to find the formula for cooperation between a government and a Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-12-54-plenair-ip261x.u73	Thank you, Prime Minister. I now close the meeting. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 13 December 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, December 13, 2018 at 2:15 p.m.
