ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u1	Minister, I am happy to be able to ask you questions again! I was allowing myself a little hint of the news... Minister, this September 10, we learned of the resignation of Mr Damien Vandermeersch, former investigating judge and, above all, attorney general at the Court of Cassation and professor at UCL as well as at Saint-Louis, and Ms Joëlle Rozie, professor at the University of Antwerp, of their status as members of the Criminal Code Reform Commission on August 23. The reason for this is as follows. The Government has approved a preliminary draft law on the reform of Book II, but with amendments which the Commission and, in any case, the interested parties cannot accept. According to them, this draft law would distort the work done and pose a serious question as it is in complete contradiction with the basic guidelines and principles that were supposed to form the new Penal Code. To this criticism, you replied in the press that there could still be a difference between the project defended by the judiciary and that of the government, so that you were not obliged to follow up on requests to reduce the use of the prison sentence. Therefore, one may wonder what was the definition of the mandate that you had given to the commission of experts to draw up the draft reform of the Criminal Code and to reach unanimous conclusions - and in this case they were. However, it seems to me that by making imprisonment the basic reference sentence and extending its scope, you are in contradiction with the government agreement. It stated: "An in-depth consideration of the appropriate penalty for lesser offences will be conducted, with the ultimate objective of replacing in the Criminal Code the penalty of imprisonment with a working sentence, an electronic supervision penalty or autonomous probation in order to effectively use the prison sentence as the ultimate remedy. For the most serious offences, the prison sentence is maintained in each case." This approach seemed entirely appropriate to me in terms of the effectiveness of criminal policy. Therefore, Minister, what is the definitive direction you give to the reform of the Criminal Code, particularly with regard to the pricing of criminal acts and offences? What will be the means of carrying out the proposed sentences? Indeed, if alternative penalties are to be developed, accompanying measures are needed. What is your approach to making the detention period more constructive and formative? A certain rate of recidivism has, moreover, been recalled. Are you committed to promoting alternative sentencing? If so, within what time frame? Are you going to rethink the composition of the Committee of Experts or consider that it has completed its work? Would there have been a discrepancy between your objectives and those defended by the members of that committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u2	Mr Maingain, the texts of Book I of the Criminal Code have already been the subject of opinions issued by the Council of State and have already been adapted. At present, the texts of Book II, relating to criminal provisions, are also adapted in the light of the opinion delivered by the Council of State which we received, in provisional version, only on 23 November last. I intend to finalize the project by the end of the year. The preparatory work of the mandated experts has almost been completed in its entirety. It is not necessary to replace the experts again, given the support that the specialized members of the administration have always provided to the commission, and given the opinions of the field staff. It is true that the government has decided to make some adjustments to the experts' proposals. As is often the case, political appreciation differs from academic positions on certain points. However, I am of the view that the essential principles concerning criminal purposes and prison sentences, considered as ultimatum remedium, remain respected and that the impact of the adaptations should not be overestimated. For example, one of the changes is that the judge retains the possibility of imposing a minor sentence, such as electronic supervision, or a short prison sentence for offences of the lowest level of correctional penalties, where he or she considers it appropriate. Nevertheless, it also has a range of alternative penalties to which it will preferably first resort. In addition, a short prison sentence and electronic surveillance will not apply to the criminal provisions of special criminal law where the legislator does not currently provide for any prison sentence. Discussions on the enforcement of sentences and the impact on the prison population will also be held in the near future. The concern for human detention is obviously supposed to be implemented beyond the Code. In this regard, I would like to mention here the successive master plans on prisons and internment, the draft law on the organization of prison services and the status of prison staff, the commitment to transfer the health care of prisoners to the Public Health FPS. The tree is judged by fruit. Therefore, I invite you to conduct the substantive discussions in connection with the concrete text of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u3	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his answer. I learn that we could hope for the tabling of the bill before the end of the year. We will see if the government will still be able to do so, of course. If that were the case, I say right away, Mr President, I would like to see an opportunity at the start of our work to determine the list of experts to be heard, and that we may have the opportunity to hear from the experts of the Criminal Code Reform Commission in advance. I think it would be interesting to have their point of view substantiated on what was, obviously, divergences. I hear the minister is trying to correct that impression. We will see it at a more in-depth reading of the project. In any case, I certainly wish, at that time, that the hearing of the experts could take place at the beginning of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u4	Minister, I come back to a case on which I have already asked you several times. While efforts have been made to reduce the number of prisoners in our prisons, the situation in Lantin remains worrying, thus prompting the Lantin Prison Supervision Commission to send you a fourth and umpteenth alarm call in a letter dated 11 October and which – according to my information – has still not received a response, except for a simple acknowledgement of receipt. On 1 October, of the 43 inmates in the annex, 29 were interned and therefore had absolutely no place in prison. Today, the situation remains substantially equal. More than a year ago, the Penitentiary Supervision Committee called on Parliament. Together with my colleagues Frédéric and Goffin, we went there and saw the disrepair of this wing and the remarkable work done by the staff to try to best accompany these people in detention, while they should be in a psychiatry or social defence facility. The situation continues to worsen in this wing, not to mention the breakdown of the agreement last April between the Lantin prison and the psychiatry department of the Citadelle hospital, the latter pointing to the lack of staff to supervise and monitor the prison. It appears that today, only one psychiatrist goes to the annex twice a week and the only psychiatrist assigned to the annex announced his resignation for early 2019. Only 3 out of 7 posts in the multidisciplinary psychiatric team are thus filled but provided irregularly in the field, while the number of prison officers available in the annex is often reduced, endangering both these officers and detainees. On the occasion of a question, you answered me at the time that: "Patients interned in Lantin are, without exception, cared for by the care team." When a care team is so small, it cannot be claimed that they are properly taken care of! You also told me that a third psychiatrist would join the team in July 2018 and a fourth in October. Yet there is always only one! It is therefore understandable why the Monitoring Committee is launching an umpteenth alarm and even invites you to close the annex and urgently transfer detainees to an appropriate care facility, failing which it will complain to the competent international bodies. Minister, what answers do you intend to give to the requests of the Prison Supervision Commission in order to respond to this chronic shortage of staff, but also to restore confidence between you and the staff, who continue to work under these conditions as well as difficult? What short-term measures will be taken to meet the most urgent needs – probably with budgetary consequences? What response has been given by the social welfare service to the people who are in need of more intensive collaboration? You announced last June the tabling of an action plan for a better investment in the support of prisoners. What is the status of this action plan? Which actors have you already consulted? Where are you in the longer-term projects? What is the status of the DBFM procedure for the construction of the new legal psychiatry centre – which should have 250 seats – as announced in your Masterplan? On October 3, 2017, you stated that the terms of reference for the appointment of a consulting office were being prepared. What about today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u5	Mr Maingain, at the administrative and strategic level, the remarks of the Lantin Supervisory Committee immediately received the necessary attention and follow-up. To date, the number of inmates in the Lantin Annex has been reduced to 24. I realize that the situation is still not ideal, but I would like to point out that we are making a lot of efforts. I give some examples. Twice a week, a part-time psychiatrist is present. On other days, the psychiatrist in the other sections can be mobilized. Soon, a third psychiatrist will be hired. As this is a short-lived profession, we find it very difficult to find new psychiatrists. He was also invested in the recruitment of nurses. The Selor has recently published examinations for the functions of nurse, psychiatric nurse and psychotherapist. The procedure for recruiting a psychologist is under way. These procedures take time but are essential. In the short term, there is an attempt to transfer internees as much as possible to external institutions. Of course, we depend on the places available. In addition, external placements depend on a decision to place them by the Social Welfare Chamber of the Penal Enforcement Court. The meetings with the Legal Welfare Department led to a collaborative agreement for the care of patients residing in the Lantin annex. This service offered increased availability for social support. In addition, a strengthening of collaborations with the mobile team set up by Public Health has been implemented. The team maintains a permanent stay in Lantin in order to assist the psychosocial service in the process of reintegration and to facilitate contacts with institutions and hospitals. It also accompanies interned patients to job interviews or outings, in order to make reintegration easier and thus shorten the time spent incarcerated. Finally, I would like to point out that Masterplan III provides for three additional psychiatric centres: 250 places in Paifve, 250 in Wavre and 120 in Alost (which is a long-stay facility). The dossier to initiate the procedure for a consultant is almost complete and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you will hear, I note that several measures announced are delayed. I return to the medical and psychiatric accompaniment of the interns of Lantin to remind that an agreement had been reached with the psychiatric service of the hospital of the Citadelle. If it is difficult to recruit staff, perhaps it would be useful to resume the initiative to associate this service – with expertise – but without having to work under the conditions imposed on it. It simply calls for sufficient staff in terms of supervision and monitoring. The staff is composed of seven members, but I would like to point out that only three positions are filled. If I hear correctly, a third psychiatrist and a psychologist will be hired, but without certainty. Mentoring and nursing staff are also required. In short, the right course would probably be to reconnect with the psychiatric department of the Citadelle Hospital to achieve tangible results. Indeed, I would not like to hear from you in a few months' time that the recruitment procedure has failed again, so that the understaffing will continue in terms of accompanying these people in situations of real insecurity. I also stress the low quality of the furniture placed in the cells. I can tell you that we have been bewildered to see the condition of the mattresses, worthy of the beginning of the twentieth century.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u7	Minister, on 17 May 2017, in this committee, we created the legal basis to establish a DNA database Intervenants. You know what the plan was. A database was created containing the DNA profile of the persons involved by their function in the analysis and processing of detected traces during criminal investigations. If their DNA is mixed with the traces of suspects, it can now be excluded from the investigation more quickly through this database. That saves not only time but also money. Before this database can enter into force effectively, an implementing decision is still necessary. The law expressly states that a KB will determine, among other things, which intervenants or categories of interveners the DNA profile should be stored. I understand that a working group has been set up with all those involved to prepare this royal decision. Mr Minister, has this working party since ended its work? If so, what conclusions have been reached? You have already stated that the law in its present form would not be applicable and that it should first be amended. Can you explain what change is needed and why? In what way will the law be amended? By what time can that happen? How do you see the timing of the royal decree? When will we be able to effectively start the DNA database Interventions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u8	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, for the implementation of the Law of 17 May 2017 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law of 22 March 1999 on the DNA investigation identification procedure in criminal matters with a view to the establishment of a DNA database Intervenants, a working group consisting of my policy cell, the federal and local police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the NICC was set up. The NICC then carried out a detailed legal and criminological study in the framework of a project funded by the federal science policy, including a legal comparison and practical comparison with abroad, and a scientific examination of the interveners to which the scheme should apply, under what conditions and modalities and how the DNA should be stored and secured. The various stakeholders were involved. This study, which was recently completed and discussed in the working group, will be published shortly. The study comes to different findings and models. For example, a general incorporation of DNA from different interveners into a database appears problematic given the need for proportionality and the impossibility of determining categories of interveners. It is proposed to limit the processing in the database of DNA traces of interveners to a specific file, after which the data will be erased. Similarly, the comparison of the DNA profiles of the interveners with the other DNA databases, including those of the Crime Department, should not be automatic. This will require an amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u9	Minister, you have explained a number of things and confirmed that an amendment to the law would be necessary. Do you have an idea of the timing in that regard? After all, you did not answer that question. When would we be able to carry on with this? I am particularly interested in the fact that this can be introduced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u10	Mrs. De Wit, my answer is always "as soon as possible." I would like to explain this further if you ask me again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u11	Mr Minister, I will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u12	Mrs Smeyers, we need your question. 27713 on the judicial investigation into the Gang of Nivelles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u13	Mr President, it may sound strange, but out of collegiality with Mrs Pas, I turn my question into a written question, since Mrs Pas is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u14	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale No 27713, by Mrs Smeyers and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) A written question by Mrs Pas has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u15	Mr President, Minister, a new first-name law has come into being, which I believe has become quite popular. Firstly, what can you tell us about the extent to which this law is applied? Do you have any figures in that regard? Secondly, in the LIVC and the GIEC, the Municipal Information and Expertise Centre, Maasmechelen, the question was asked to what extent are controls possible if the crime world discovers the first name change that can now easily happen? Could that have any repercussions on the detection of crimes? That is the question I asked you in different terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u16	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, you remember very well your own question. I do not have any figures in relation to the requests for first name change, as they have been the responsibility of civil status officials since 1 August 2018. However, the changes of first name allowed at the municipal level are included in the national register. I therefore invite you to consult the Minister for the Interior, responsible for that register. He can get you the statistics. In accordance with Article 3 (2) of the Law of 15 May 1987 on Names and First Names, as amended by the Law of 18 June 2018, the civil status official may, after checking the judicial records of the person concerned, authorise the change of first name if the requested first names do not give rise to confusion and cannot harm the applicant or third parties. The Council of State has already held that the requirement that the change of name should not harm anyone presupposes that the applicant's judicial records are taken into account and that the change of name should not give rise to confusion and harm third parties, in particular the authorities responsible for judicial matters. This reasoning is also based on first name change. In the event of serious doubt in the assessment of these conditions, the civil servant may seek the advice of the prosecutors of the King. The official may, inter alia, on the basis of this opinion, refuse to accept a first name change. Mistakes can always be reported to the King's Attorney and give rise to a decision of refusal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u17	Minister, you know that I am very much in favour of also giving local authorities orders in the context of dealing with nuisance and even crime. The question is how to organize things when a peculiar person comes to change his first name. I share your concern about the danger of abuse. I do not know whether we can leave that to civil servants at the point of contact, who simply have to write down a statement. Perhaps it would be a good idea to think a little bit more about that and to see how one can come to a certain interaction. Perhaps from the courthouse, through the King's Attorney, we should work more proactively with the civil servant. Once again, I will break my mind about it and you will undoubtedly present a good solution as soon as it is necessary. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u18	Minister, this is a very difficult trial that must be faced by Jean-Claude Libiez's mother and brother, whose alleged murderers are supposed to be tried in the Hainaut assize court for the murder of Roisin. After the President's recusation, the civilian parties were forced to attend the impotent postponement of a trial they were looking forward to with impatience and hope. Their pain is all the greater because they have no idea of the time within which a new trial can be held, given the lack of magistrates who can preside over the Hainaut Assize Court. Today, the shortage of magistrates is such that we come to situations where retired persons must be called upon to preside over a court of assizes. Today, trials for acts as serious as murder are unable to be organized given the lack of human resources. Minister, what do you say to the victim's mother and brother who are helpless in the postponement of the trial of the alleged murderers of their loved ones? Will a new trial take place? When? The Hainaut Court of Appeal now has twenty-two judges instead of thirty, which is far from the 80 per cent required for its proper functioning. This leads to situations where a pensioner is forced to preside over the court. Are you planning to put an end to this situation by investing quickly in judicial personnel and increasing the number of staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u19	Mr Thiébaut, your question has several aspects. The first concerns the postponement of the trial and its causes. On this point, by virtue of the separation of powers, I cannot comment on the content of a specific dossier. The second part concerns judges made available in the Mons Court of Appeal. To date, twenty-four magistrates have been appointed from a cadre of thirty, with one magistrate on mission. Five appointment procedures are under way, published in the Moniteur belge on 6 April, 1 June and 19 October 2018. Among the five holidays, the first appointment was signed by the King and will be published in the Belgian Monitor on Friday. That is what I brought to the attention, by letter last Friday, of the first president of the Court of Appeal. The last vacancy procedure will be completed by April 2019 at the latest. Taking into account the temporary departures, this will lead, at the end of April, to a framework of 27 out of 30 staff, i.e. 90 per cent. Finally, it should be recalled that the organisation of the court is within the competence of the first President of the Court of Appeal. The legislation provides him with many opportunities to manage the size of his jurisdiction. In terms of magistrates, he may, in particular, appeal to the substitute councillors – there are seventeen of them in the Mons Court of Appeal –, to the retired magistrates or to the delegated judges. These professionals have the same competence and legitimacy as the actual magistrates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u20	Minister, thank you. I hope the promises will be kept. Of course, in April, I will not have the opportunity to question you because we will certainly be in the election campaign. So I won't be able to check if we've reached the 27 out of 30 magistrates. However, I will remain vigilant on this issue, knowing that you have made some positive points which give a little more hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u21	Mr Minister, there are three closed centres for interns, particularly in Aalst, in Waver and in Paifve; you have already referred to this in Mr Maingain's question. Together with the government, you formally decided on 13 May this year. The plans for the closed centres for interns are of course part of your 2016 Master Plan Prisons, which includes the necessary capacity for those psychiatric centers, so that interns no longer have to stay in prison, a place where they don't belong and where they don't get proper treatment, we agree. Belgium has already been condemned on several occasions by the European Council on Human Rights. Meanwhile, centres for interned people have already been built and opened in Ghent and Antwerp, but today there are still 491 interned people in prison, waiting for a place in such a specialized forensic psychiatric center, as those centres are officially called. Mr Minister, will the development of the Master Plan for Prisons, with more specifically the construction of the three planned forensic psychiatric centers, continue unabated? What decisions are to be taken before the end of this legislature? I have drafted this question, including those last words, in temporarily non-suspecto, but I hope that good decisions can still be made in this respect. What capacity do you provide for each of these centres? Do you have a view of the specific term of delivery and commissioning? What term do you keep in mind? Are there plans for the operation of these institutions and for the development of the provision of care? With that question, I am on the verge of the division of competence between yourself; Minister Jambon, responsible for the Government of the Buildings, and Minister De Block, responsible for Public Health, but perhaps you can answer it as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, of course, the work of the Master Plan continues. The three administrations, in particular Justice, the Directorate of Buildings and Public Health, are preparing the file for the appointment of a consultant, which will provide support. As decided, these centres will be implemented by means of a DBFMO formula, which means that, in addition to the design, construction, financing and maintenance, the operation will be included in the contract immediately. One of the award criteria will be the supply of care. Experience has shown that the operator sometimes has specific requirements about or an own vision of the impact of a building on its operation. It was therefore decided that this would be better coordinated. The dossier will soon be submitted to the Council of Ministers for validation. One of the tasks of the consultant is to draw up a correct timing for all procedures to be carried out and thus for commissioning. Only then will it be possible to present concrete timing. Of course, it is also dependent on the award routes. The capacity is, as previously communicated, for Aalst 120 places, for Waver 250 places and for Paifve also 250 places.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I don't have an additional reply. Thank you for your confirmation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u24	Question No 27813 by Mr Flahaux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u25	Mr President, Minister, according to notary.be, around 2.5 million Belgians visit their notary every year. From sales agreements on marriage contracts to global inheritance agreements, the notary guides the citizen in these matters and bears the necessary responsibility. In the last year, we have carried out a lot of reforms that the notaries have to deal with, such as inheritance law and matrimonial property law. The legislator also assigns more and more tasks to the notary, so that the judicial process can be eased. I fully agree with that. There is therefore a great deal of confidence in this profession. However, public opinion still often feels that notaries are pocket fillers, which require a lot of money for a standard form that they simply have to sign. The many research work, the demand for certificates and, above all, the intermediary role played by the notary, remain under-exposed in the media and public opinion. Minister, in your judicial plan you say the following about the judicial service providers, including the notaries: "A further accelerated modernisation, for which they are all asking parties, offers many opportunities for the overall modernisation of justice. Justice would like to conclude a multi-annual pact with the judicial service providers, which would include the further modernisation of their statute and mandate, as well as their involvement and participation in the modernisation of judicial procedures and the computerisation of justice. Their contribution to this modernisation and, in particular, their role as a precursor to the cultural change in operation, will undoubtedly strengthen and accelerate the modernisation of justice." Minister, in the summer of 2018, the report 'A Future for the Legal Professions', including the notary, was presented. In it, two experts appointed by you made a lot of proposals for reform or modernisation of the notarial profession. You are working on a new KB with regard to the notaries' honors. In the field of transport, and that signal will reach you too, there is some concern about the result. That is why I have a few questions for clarification. Can you tell us what's going on with the new KB on the wages of honor? Have you already consulted with the relevant judicial actors on this KB? Did they have any comments? What was their reaction? Will there be further consultation and further response to any comments they may have? When will the Royal Decree enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, I am indeed preparing a modernisation of the Royal Decree on notaries' fees. I have discussed this with the representatives of the sector. Everyone plays the role he has to play. The notary understands that modernisation is a necessity. I hope that this can be published before the end of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u27	That is a short answer, Minister. If I can make another contribution, I would ask you to pay attention to the principle of solidarity which is now included in the wages of honour. Persons wishing to draw up a prenup should not be deterred by the level of an honorary wage and fail themselves by opting for the legal system instead of a prenup. These are all philosophies that are in the great fork of notaries' honors, from small to very high honors. I am counting on you to retain that principle in the reform of wages. I hope you also know the disadvantages of liberalising wages in other countries. After all, they could be even higher and competition between notaries could arise. We are going to look at who has the lowest fee of honor, and that is perhaps at the expense of the quality of notarial documents. I hope that you will take into account the disadvantages that are felt in other countries and that these disadvantages will not be repeated here by the reform of that Central Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u28	Question No 27849 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u29	Mr President, did Mrs Lambrecht say anything?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u30	I haven't heard from her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u31	Okay, then I'll ask my question, because I had joined her question. Minister, the think tank Friday Group has produced a report on which a number of newspapers have read it. I also took a look at that report. It says that inmates should be better supervised, as this reduces the risk of repeated release. The report also makes a number of recommendations. The title of the report is striking, namely "Our prisons: a danger to each of us." This goes against the idea that many people have about a prison, namely that it serves to protect society. However, the report sees this as completely different. Apparently, that's what people do consciously to provoke. The thesis is that the prison policy pursued is disastrous, even embarrassing and degrading. So we're going a long way. The cost picture attached to the prisons actually transcends the benefits that a prison could offer, according to the report. It concludes that there should be fewer prisons and therefore less investment in new prisons and more in emptying them and reintegrating prisoners. There are also many points of pain in the report. We are talking about the risk of radicalisation in prisons, drug use, the building strategy which your predecessors, in particular, have pursued, and the high cost of the prison system, which, however, has not put an end to the overpopulation and other problems. We are also addressing the problems of the division of powers, which, of course, are not obvious. After the sixth state reform, a number of powers have indeed been transferred to Flanders, which means, for example, that the guidance has to be filled in in a different way around drug use. So it is a whole sandwich that expresses a certain vision. As you know, therefore, it is not in line with my view, but I am interested and I am curious how you analyse these comments yourself. What do you think of the criticism? Will you take steps to respond to the comments made in the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u32	Mrs De Wit, first of all I think it is positive that more and more citizens and organisations are awake from the prison system and its functioning. I hope that this will boost public support for investment in often forgotten fellow citizens. Although I do not wish to contradict a number of observations, the explanation given to some of them deserves at least some nuance, especially in the international context, which the authors of the Friday Group report have repeatedly invoked. It is correct that the detention rate is lower in some of our neighbouring countries, but also that it is higher in many more countries. A similar finding can be made with regard to the relapse rate. I would like to point out that there is no supranational consensus on the method of measuring repeated cases. Moreover, the NICC report, to which reference is made, does not measure the recurrentity of detainees but of all persons against whom a judicial decision has been taken. One refers to an overpopulation ratio of 27 %, while just during this legislative period it fell to around 11 %. The very economic angle and therefore the repetitive argument that our prison system is too expensive, surprises me, to be honest. Countries that score better on recidivism, where I like to refer to the Scandinavian countries, are just investing more in their prison system. In addition, the measures proposed to limit repeated infringements call for a substantial increase in resources. I would just like to dwell on some of the recommendations of the report to show that the government has done so. I fully support the logic of a personalised reintegration process and my services are therefore fully preparing, in consultation with the services of the Communities, for the introduction of detention planning. The concept of small scale will also take effect in our prison landscape. In my Master Plan III I explicitly provided for the creation of transition homes. The applications have been received and are currently being evaluated. The draft law on the organisation of penitentiary services and the status of penitentiary staff, which I have submitted to the Committee on Justice, contains a section on minimum services, but also provisions to support the training and upgrading of the functions of prison staff. Finally, I can also confirm that the NICC is in the process of studying a repeat monitor of the Dutch model, which will enable us to obtain a more accurate view of this phenomenon in the future. In short, although I have some critical reservations about the way in which some aspects of the report are addressed, I fully support most of the observations. I have tried to make as much progress as possible in the past legislature as far as most of them are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u33	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You say you agree with a lot of things. I understand that, given the functional measures that have already been taken. On the other hand, I'm glad you're making a nuance somewhere. The way it says it is, in certain respects, quite unsophisticated. As long as the repeat monitor isn't there, a measurement is very difficult. As you know, we have repeatedly asked for it to be introduced. I am therefore very pleased that the NICC is working on such a system. It's too bad it wasn't there before. We're getting beat up with arguments. An investigation was carried out in 2015, but that was of a very different order, as you said. I'm really happy with that monitor. It will be an important policy instrument, and we will really be able to do something about it. Re-integration and guidance of prisons are essential to avoid recurrence. I fully share that view. In this context, we have just adopted your policy paper, which states that a detention plan will finally be put in place. That legislation has been in place for so many years. That won't come too soon and we need to work on the aspect of the transition houses. That is another resolution by Mr Smeyers from the previous legislature, and we certainly agree with that. My biggest criticism of the Friday report that is important enough to bring to your attention is that we have ended up there with our prison system. Last week there were the hearings on the guaranteed service, which led to a somewhat heated debate. In terms of building and personnel policy, we have come to the point where the situation is not optimal, because there has been too little investment in this aspect every year. Security and prisons were not considered a priority at all, not by you, but by your predecessors. That goes back a long way, Mrs. Van Cauter. This has led us to the present situation. I am very happy that other things are happening today, although I believe that more can happen. The fewer people in prison, the better, because that means dealing with problems. Perhaps we should start by ensuring that those who do belong in prison can be received in a human and correct way. We cannot adapt the prison population to the capacity: the capacity must be adapted to the prisoners. I would like to see more investment in that. If that can lead to empty cells as in the Netherlands, we have succeeded in our design.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u34	Question No 27896 by Georges Gilkinet is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I have asked you several times to raise your awareness of the deplorable state of the Mons courthouse at the top of Nimy Street. Two years ago, access to the public hall was prohibited by the social inspection. Today, this old age is still visible to everyone and has been largely immigrated to courtrooms, offices and transplants. All you have to do is raise your eyes to the ceiling of the no-lost room to see it. The reinforced cariatides and the protective net are still present. It goes without saying that this poses problems in terms of equipment, safety, accessibility, working environment and, of course, the reception of litigants. Minister, are you aware of the continuing danger of the Mons courthouse? What structural response do you intend to provide to secure the building and make it accessible in safe and sustainable conditions? Are initiatives taken in this direction with your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments? If so, could you tell me which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u36	Mr Thiébaut, I have before me Mr Gilkinet's question about the palace of Namur. I was going to be wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u37	It's not the same province! There are not just problems in Mons, obviously, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u38	There are problems all over the world, Mr. Thiébaut, and unfortunately we are destined to try to solve them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u39	And welcome people who are in trouble in other countries. I know that, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u40	That's what I'm trying to do. I am aware of the situation in Mons and I would like to join you in saying that this situation is not acceptable. I have already repeatedly urged the Régie des Bâtiments to find a structural solution. In addition, I also asked the question of transferring the Labour Court and Labour Auditorate to a new building. I have specifically asked the Régie des Bâtiments, and my colleague Jambon, to carry out a prospect in order to find another temporary solution in the centre of Mons to accommodate all these services properly. Meanwhile, the Régie will have to start the study for a thorough renovation of the courthouse. I hope that the results will soon be available. But be assured that I personally monitor this situation in Mons!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u41	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u42	Minister, illegal migration is a problem on many fronts. It goes without saying that if we want to tackle this problem in a structural way, we absolutely must work on the influx of illegal migrants. We can do that too; we have the instruments for that. Smuggling people and helping them are criminal offences. Justice can play an important role in effectively dismantling these networks. Through the media we have learned that such a network would be made up of Palestine, a network of which, according to certain government members in the press, the flow of human beings should be wiped out. This network should be stopped. It is therefore being published in the media showing that an exponential number of migrants from Palestine would be on our territory. In 2015 eleven people were spoken of, in 2017 there were almost 1 000 and this year the numerator would be almost 2 000. I addressed this to the Secretary of State in last week's plenary session. I asked him how he and his services deal with signals and clues to these crimes. I asked him whether he or his officials had effectively reported certain facts to the Court of Justice on the basis of Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This article provides that any alleged authority, public officer or official, when they become aware of a crime or a malpractice, is effectively obliged to report it to the King's Attorney. The Secretary of State replied positively to my question. He said in plenary that it is very important that our DVZ officials also pass on the signals of human trafficking to the public. He confirmed that this is being done and that there is cooperation between DVZ and Justice. It's a good thing, I'd say. However, I have a number of questions. In the last two years, has an investigation or even a judicial investigation into human trafficking from Palestine been launched? Was this investigation initiated on the basis of a declaration made pursuant to Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure by the DVZ services? How many official declarations, in accordance with Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, concerning trafficking in human beings or assistance in illegal immigration have been made by DVZ over the past five years? Did DVZ or the Belgian State lodge complaints with bourgeois parties in the hands of a investigating judge for cases of human trafficking or assistance in illegal migration? I am asking these questions because, as a result of the debate on residence and the hearings in Parliament, the President of our investigators stated that too little was being done about their services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u43	Mrs Van Cauter, I have put your question to the College of Attorney General and the Federal Office. I can tell you that since June of this year there has been an investigation at the federal prosecutor's office into a Palestinian filière of human trafficking. This investigation was initiated on the basis of data and elements obtained by the Public Prosecutor from Spain through Eurojust. The federal prosecutor then contacted the Foreign Affairs Department. Since then, there has been close cooperation. In view of the state and secret of the investigation, no further information can be provided. No figures are available on the number of official declarations in accordance with Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for cases of trafficking in human beings, smuggling and assistance in illegal migration. However, the state's attorney's office lets me know that sometimes the Foreign Office communicates information to the local prosecutors. With regard to any civil-party complaints emanating from the Foreign Affairs Department, I refer you to my colleague, the Secretary of State responsible for Asylum and Migration. I have heard from the federal court and the Brussels court that they have no knowledge of such bourgeois parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. There is therefore an effective investigation into this network of smugglers. There was no DVZ report but the investigation was initiated on the basis of internationally exchanged information, which once again underlines the importance of international cooperation on this issue. If the report of the plenary is correct, at least non-compliant information has been provided to a Member of Parliament. I deeply regret that, and I will address it to the Secretary of State. I can only hope that things will be taken up correctly, immediately and proactively in the future. If one finds that things have gotten out of hand for this network since 2017, then it seems logical to me that we should not wait for information to come from abroad. If it is to happen here under our eyes, we need to work more closely together. Justice services must be properly informed so that they can do their job. If there are no figures, then that's telling. I regret that, Minister. I hope you do that with me. People always point to justice, and often rightly so. We had a discussion on this in connection with the policy paper. Criminal policy may need to be strengthened, but of course justice can only act when it receives the necessary and necessary information. Apparently, that didn't happen here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-05-54-commissie-ic1008x.u45	Other questions that have not been carried forward or converted in writing become moot.
