ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u1	Mr President, Minister, according to a press release, the Brussels Labour Court was forced to suspend part of its sessions in the absence of operational resources. It is reported that all letters to the Minister of Justice on the inadequate resources, the lack of magistrates and the excessive workload remained even without reply. I quote: '... after the Supreme Court of Justice, following a complaint by a citizen, had established that the responsibility for the delay in the handling of the file was not with the labour court, but was the result of insufficient resources.'. According to the Labour Court, this decision is a result of the policy of the judiciary. I have five questions, Minister. First of all, were you aware of the problem? Secondly, what is the average lead time of a case at the Brussels Labour Court? Thirdly, is it true that you received letters and left them unanswered? If so, why? Fourthly, how is it possible for a court to suspend hearings because of a lack of means of action? Fifth, what will you do to ensure that the administration of justice is no longer compromised?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u2	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Lambrecht has outlined the situation. Minister, you received a letter from the Brussels Labour Court, which referred to the suspension of hearings due to insufficient resources. I will come to my questions immediately. What's your reaction to writing? How did you respond to these letters? Can you explain the case specifically? What is the current status of the recruitment procedure? Are other temporary measures possible to unblock the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u3	Mrs Van Cauter is not here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u4	Minister, the situation is incredible! On the agenda of our Committee on Justice this morning was this famous project establishing the Brussels International Court, to which we will give important private and public resources, so that companies can have a court that intervenes as quickly as possible. In addition to this, ordinary jurisdictions and litigants are facing a catastrophic situation! As my colleagues have just said, what happened last October at the Brussels Labour Court is quite significant: because of the lack of human and material resources, hearings are closed until 31 March! This shows the current difficulty. These hearings concern social security cases involving employees, self-employed persons and disputes with CPAS. These are people who are in difficult situations and who will not have the opportunity to obtain a judgment for a conflict or dispute in which they are a party. The first president of the court claims to have alerted the minister, but her letters remained unanswered. The Supreme Council of Justice makes it clear that the responsibility for the delay is not due to the court but to the lack of resources. It further states that the abolition of hearings and the extension of processing times are inevitable consequences of the policy imposed on the judiciary by leading, despite the existence of a legal framework, to the non-publication or late publication of jobs left vacant as a result of the departure of magistrates. Finally, she noted that the court's Francophone cadre was currently reduced from six to four judges, which, for her, led to an insurmountable workload. The litigants are injured, the judges are out of breath and cannot carry out the mission entrusted to them under serene and dignified conditions. Mr Minister, what concrete steps do you intend to take to get the people and the judiciary out of this very problematic situation? This applies not only to the labour court but also to all Belgian courts. Is there anything new that you're going to get out of your hat next to the multitude of bills you're taking to deal with the situation in courts and tribunals in practice? The judiciary is out of breath. How do you work with him? What proposals are you prepared to hear to ease his difficulties? Finally, I imagine that in the meantime, you have responded to the Brussels Labour Court and the High Council of Justice. We would like to know the answers you sent to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u5	Mr President, I regret the announcement by the first President of the Brussels Labour Court to suspend part of the sessions. The legal framework of the Brussels Labour Court was completed at 100% until 31 August 2018. One councilman retired on 1 September 2018. He was immediately replaced by a delegation from a judge of the labour court, so that at that time there were still 11 magistrates present at the court, being an occupation of 100 %. However, at the end of September, one councilman announced his resignation from the magistrate from 1 November 2018. It was a sudden discharge that could not be anticipated in advance. As a result, from November onwards, the occupation of the court fell temporarily from 11 to 10 magistrates, an occupation of 91 %. On 19 October, vacancies for judges were published: 59 for courts and tribunals and 31 for the Public Prosecutor's Office. In line with the proposal of the College of Courts and Courts, the recruitment plan provided for a vacancy for the Brussels Labour Court, allowing it to return to a 100% framework. It was agreed with the Colleges of Headquarters and the Public Prosecutor's Office to launch a new one before the end of the year. In the meantime, the vacancy for the position of First Chairman of the Labour Court was also published, in particular on 21 September. The current first President shall terminate her term of office as Chief Constable on 1 April 2019. It may continue as a counsellor until 1 December 2019, when it reaches the age limit, unless it applies for an extension. The first President received an answer from your servant on 13 September, stating that a vacancy plan was in preparation and that she should certainly also address her question to the College of Courts and Courts. On 3 October, the first president himself thanked him by e-mail for the answer. The workload of the labour court is fairly stable. According to published statistics, the number of new cases in 2017 has decreased by 6% compared to 2016 and, compared to 2015, is even lower by 8%. However, the court also suffered from the largest backlog, with 2,381 cases, and had a long processing time, as evidenced by the median duration of 503 days compared to 351 days for the national average. For judicial personnel, recruitment and promotion examinations are under way. By the end of the year, 189 vacant posts will be published. I urged the President of the College of Courts and Courts to cut selections as short as possible in order to quickly appoint judicial staff. In the meantime, prosecutors and courts have been strengthened through temporary contracts. As a result, 189 outstanding contracts were extended until July 1, 2019. In addition, courts and prosecutors have been authorized to hire 120 new contractors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even if it is an answer as we get so many. We are informed of abuses and submit them to you, to which you say it is not so bad. You regret the suspension of hearings and we certainly regret this situation, because the faith in the functioning of the court is falling sharply among the people. What remains of your answer is that, according to you, staffing is not a problem in that a capacity utilisation rate of 91% compared to 100 % should be possible. One might think that the Brussels Labour Court is being exaggerated and that things are being told that are not right, but that is not the way to think. In fact, I think we should be quite desperate to put the situation in the press there. You say that the workload at the court is quite stable, but a little later you say that so many files remain. My supplementary question is whether the mass of files that remain are then included in the workload? I think the stress comes from that. After all, one can be with the work of the day, but if hundreds of files remain, it cannot be said that the workload at the court is quite stable. Who will give you the figures that would show that the workload is stable?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which in my view provokes about the same reaction. On the one hand, I hear the distress call, on the other hand, a decrease in staffing from 100 % to 91 % still seems manageable to me to cover a period. We will see how the situation at the court continues to evolve. Hopefully the hearings can be resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u8	Minister, I note that you always give the same kind of answer: "Everything is getting better, we are filling managers, jobs are being advertised, we are taking temporary contracts". What is strange is that Justice – and not just Mrs Sevrain, whom you say you regret that she has expressed herself, but it was enough to read the mercurials of return – offends the meagre means unblocked for the functioning of courts and tribunals. The judicial world regularly writes, speaks, denounces and even comes to the suppression of hearings, because it is completely strangled by the lack of resources. At the same time, the minister said: "No, that's okay, we have the right answers." It's really strange. We almost feel like a dialogue of the deaf. On the other hand, you say that there was, almost by chance, a difficulty for a person. I did not hear an answer about the difficulty of two missing judges in the Francophone context. Did she make a mistake? Did she see double? She made it very clear that the French-speaking side had been reduced from six to four judges. She therefore spoke of an insurmountable workload. In addition, you are talking about backlogs, implying, I suppose, that perhaps more effort should be made to deal with cases. The Supreme Council of Justice nevertheless made it clear that this was not the fault of the court, but that it was the result of an insurmountable workload in relation to the executive. I didn't get that answer. First, I note that there is a kind of dialogue of the deaf with two completely different realities; then, I do not have an answer on the Francophone framework. Didn't she tell the truth? She said four out of six. So there are two missing on the French side: yes or no? I still don't know. And there is this observation by the Supreme Council of Justice, including with regard to the backlog, that the workload cannot be reduced if the executives are not reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I tabled an oral question on the DPA, but I had already tabled a written question on the same subject before. I have already received an answer to most of my questions. I shall perhaps repeat the remaining questions. As you know, there is a new DPA system in which conclusions are laid down in a paying manner. In addition, there is a system, e-Deposit, which was developed in the court of appeal of Antwerp and was taken over by the other courts of appeal. Attorneys were therefore free to make their submissions. In your reply to my written question, you have already explained to me why the OVB offers a better guarantee as to the status of the person making the conclusions. However, I still have the following questions. Who determines the pricing of the DPA? On what grounds are we based? What role does the government play in this? You have already answered my question about the confidential data. However, I still had a question here. What if Diplad goes into failure? How is continuity guaranteed? What emergency scenarios do you have ready for that? Who will guarantee authenticity? Why is an outdated technique like Oracle web forms used? Who decided to use this technique?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u10	Mr President, Minister, on 16 October 2018, a KB was published which provides that the Minister of Justice may impose on certain professional groups the use of computer systems managed by their professional organisation to gain access to the IT systems of Justice, such as e-Deposit. To concrete this for the lawyer immediately followed a ministerial decision, which made DPA deposit the only system that lawyers can use for the electronic deposit of documents and conclusions. The KB and the MB immediately entered into force. Not Justice, but the private company Diplad............................................................................................................................................................. However, developing and maintaining the platform costs a lot of money. The costs are passed on through a system of reimbursement per transaction. For example, the lawyer pays 9 euros to make a conclusion to the court and send it in one movement to client, counterparties, colleagues and third parties. For a pro-Deo case, that is 3 euros. Some mention a fee on electronic litigation and call for the continued use of e-Deposit, which is free and developed by the FPS Justice Department. Shielding system defenders with the fact that a deposit via DPA deposit guarantees that the person making the submissions and documents before the court is a real, unspoken lawyer. Opponents point out, however, that it provides a solution to an existing problem and that the real motive is that the orders, in parallel with e-Deposit, have invested in the development of their own digitisation and must now try to close the financial well in this way. Mr. Secretary, are the costs associated with using DPA deposit recovered from the client? On what basis? Do you think it is wise to have a private company keep very sensitive and risky data on such a large scale? Why did you consider it necessary to require a private platform in addition to the existing and free e-Deposit system? Do you have any knowledge of "false" lawyers depositing documents at the courthouse?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u11	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mrs Lambrecht, your vague ones allow me to remove a number of misunderstandings, in addition to the answers I have already given to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's written question. The DPA is the joint platform of law, Dutch and French. It's not a Justice platform. It is therefore financed and controlled by the bar associations, in the manner decided by their general meeting. It belongs to the autonomy of the bar associations. As a minister, I do not intervene in principle. In addition, there is no regulation regarding the charging of the lawyer and his client. It shall be established on a contractual basis, whether written or not. The step taken with the KB is the linking of the e-Depositplatorm to the DPA when laying down conclusions and documents. It allows the control of the capacity of the person making the claim to be carried out by that body which has traditionally been designated therein, in particular the counters. In accordance with the only-once regulations, we use the authentic source. We do not have any data on submissions made by non-competent persons. However, the need for a systematic barrister's role is wider than the deposit of documents and will increase significantly in the near future. Think of the possibility of looking at a criminal case file during the remote investigation or the control of access to courthouses and detention homes. These controls will therefore also have to be carried out for other ICT systems, such as the Council of State systems. All submissions of conclusions and documents are still made in the e-Deposit Platform of Justice. Only the gate for lawyers is modified for the reason just mentioned. The DPA is therefore only used here as a transmission platform, as the Data Protection Authority suggests in its opinion. It could be considered that the deposit will be made through the DPA if it acts as a communication interface between lawyers and eBox and e-Deposit and does not retain any trace of the documents transmitted to the IT systems of the Justice Department. There is therefore no trace in the DPA platforms of the conclusions or pieces. The Data Protection Authority expressed its concerns about the protection of personal data. It has therefore called for additional measures in its opinion. The proposals of the Data Protection Authority have been fully followed by the FPS Justice. The proposals to refine the text of the authority were also taken on board in full. Since the connection between an IT system of Justice and a computer system of the administrator of the authentic source of the lawyers is established, there is no context in which a public tender by my services should be carried out. I would like to leave the choices on technology to the informants who can talk about them with knowledge. In any case, we have allowed privacy legislation to be respected as closely as possible. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, if there were to be continuity, the e-Deposit mechanism would of course be preserved in its entirety. After all, it is only an access platform. Private individuals can still make their conclusions through the e-Deposit channel. If there were ever any continuity, everyone could resort to e-Deposit, regardless of the bankruptcy laws, which you know, like me, and which do not necessarily lead to the immediate disruption of services in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u12	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I would just like to make the small point that this is yet another indirect increase in costs for the citizens who want to go to justice. After all, the costs will be recovered from the client.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u14	Mr President, Minister, this question dates back some time ago and I have heard in the press that the process has been a normal process. Part of the answer has therefore already been given. Recently we were once again confronted with the story that video footage that serves as evidence could not be shown in court, which led the parole court to demand the acquittal for lack of evidence. The specific case involved a Brussels court, where two suspects were tried for hitting police officers. Images recorded with surveillance cameras sometimes require specific software, codecs or licenses to play them. If they are not present on the computer in the courtroom, then at that time it is impossible to put evidence on the table. Apparently, the licence was not available in this case either. It happens too often. It is reported that this is due to the centralisation of ICT services by the Justice Department, which means that local courts will no longer be able to enforce rights on computers in their courts. They must centrally request the installation of certain software, codecs or licenses needed to play their video. Apparently, that doesn't happen or it doesn't always happen in time. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Didn't evaluation happen after it went wrong with the case that came in the media in this case? Why wasn't there a license? Do you not test before the session whether or not a video can be played? What is the procedure for having software or codecs installed in court? Who's responsible for that? Who manages the licenses? How do you feel about putting a computer not under central management, but under local management, so that the Registry can quickly install the necessary software or codecs? Is there a budget to buy licenses in court as part of the independent courts to avoid such problems in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, since the previous incident, the ICT staff has developed, following an internal evaluation, a solution approved by both colleges on the permanent ICT consultation body and tested in Ghent. The solution means that a set of computers is configured in advance in order to be able to read all types of beliefs. The necessary software is provided for this, including all known media codecs. Following a positive evaluation, it was decided to offer this solution nationally. It is the responsibility of the court to test evidence of conviction in time for the hearing, to determine whether or not new software is needed to be able to play the videos. If necessary, the ICT staffing service does the necessary and not only installs the missing codecs on the devices provided for this purpose, but also makes the custom software available nationally via centrally pushed updates. For the incident mentioned, the ICT desk was only contacted on the day of the session itself. A personal laptop was immediately provided with the viewer program and the images could be played. The police provide the codecs, which come from all possible sources. Video files use familiar and less known codecs, for which the police usually also provide the correct viewer. The provided viewers are distributed by the ICT staff on the specially configured devices that were delivered to the courts. We currently have more than 20,000 network-connected computers. It is very important that the synchronization of these computers is carried out in a safe and clearly managed manner. In times of cryptoviruses it is irresponsible to give up control. That is why we are working centrally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that such an incident will not happen again in the future. You say that there are solutions and that we need to test and request them in good time. In any case, it is not a good thing for the Justice Department that people should go free because video material cannot be played in court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 27295 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 27420 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u18	Mr President, Minister, it is reported that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office intends not to deal with a whole series of minor crimes for one to two months. It's about thefts without violence, shoplifting, threats and intimidation. This means that complaints from women who are harassed on the streets are not always treated. At the moment, 1 700 files on such crimes would have been filed without a magistrate looking at them. The public prosecutor would have been understaffed for some time and this measure would free the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office from the need to investigate and prosecute more serious crimes. Is this true? What kind of signal is this gonna send? What is your position on this, Minister? What are the criminal policy guidelines on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u19	Mr Minister, the press recently told us that in Brussels 1,700 cases, including theft, would have been closed without even being opened in recent weeks. Worse: It has been decided that for a period of one or two months, incidents of single theft, shoplifting, threats and harassment will be systematically classified without further action. The reason would be the lack of staff and the physical inability to process the files. When questioned, the prosecution did not wish to comment on this information. Minister, is this information accurate or incorrect? If it is proven, what is your reaction? Have there been other similar cases in other jurisdictions in recent months? Do you feel that measures should be taken to avoid such problems in the future? I guess so. In concrete terms, what tools do you have to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brussels Public Prosecutor contradicts the figures on dismissal in his press release in response to the reports on dismissals. I quote: 'Writing that the Brussels parquet does not intend to deal with a whole series of minor crimes for one to two months is a misrepresentation of the facts'. According to the spokesperson of the parquet, the annual figures of the parquet show that it has been dropping less and less since 2014. For autumn leave, I explained in plenary that the French-speaking staff framework of the first instance parquet in Brussels has been strengthened with 13 vacancies since November 2017. For the Dutch staff framework of the same parquet, 2 vacancies have been issued since the same date. A maximum of these vacancies brings the current number of French-speaking parish magistrates in Brussels from 84 to 97, this on a staff framework of 98. For the Dutch speakers, the number of magistrates increases from 19 to 21, which is equivalent to a complete framework. In addition, this year 4 vacancies were also launched for parquet lawyers, who have already been filled out. In this regard, it is recalled that, in the context of the Sixth State Reform and on the basis of a specific workload measure, an extension of the framework has been authorised for Brussels. The Francophone cadre was increased by 15 magistrates, from 80 to 95. In 2016, the same framework was further strengthened by three magistrates, bringing the Brussels-speaking framework for prosecutors to a total of 98. The sixth reform of the state split the Dutch-speaking framework between Brussels and Hal-Vilvorde. On this occasion, the Dutch-speaking framework was increased by 3 units. In 2016, the Dutch-speaking Brussels frame without Hal-Vilvorde was further increased by 2 units, bringing the Dutch-speaking Brussels frame to a total of 21 units. In the case of job vacancies, priority is always given to a distribution based on the real workload. This is initially identified by the relevant public prosecutors and validated by the Public Prosecutor's College. The latest publications published last Friday in the Belgian Official Journal have fully followed the needs identified by the College of the Public Prosecutor's Office. There are no general guidelines on how to deal with thefts or threats without subsequent violence. The opportunity and feasibility of criminal proceedings in these cases shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis. For example, thefts without aggravating elements, such as violence or forced entry, which subsequently normalise the situation and compensate the victim, may also be the subject of an amicable settlement or other form of settlement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u21	Mr Minister, this is the second question that I am asking, which raises a major problem, but to which you answer that there is not much to it. I hear you say that the figures on dismissal are not correct, that according to the public prosecutor there are fewer and fewer dismissals and that the situation regarding the staff framework is improving. Taking into account the information I have at my disposal, I can only conclude that the judicial sources of L'Echo and De Tijd, from which we obtain our information, urgently need to be reviewed. The journalists are clearly getting misinformation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u22	Minister, I want to thank you for cutting the wings off a duck. In my opinion, this should be reported to the press, which has told us this kind of story. Justice is perceived as a fundamental institution of life in society, especially when living in democracy. By spreading such information, the press gives a poor image of justice to the population. That is why we must remember the truth. Of course, I fully understand that it is not overnight that recruitment will make up for a possible delay. In any case, we are moving in the right direction, and I can only rejoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you about this. Like everyone here, I know that the government has already made important decisions in this area. But I would like you to provide us with up-to-date information on the supervision of radicalized prisoners who are called out of prison in the weeks or months to come. As you know, expert reports are clear on this. As members of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks, we have heard many witnesses and have seen that the situation is quite alarming. Even recently, Dr. Dantinne, who accompanied us in our work, stated that the rate of recidivism, after imprisonment, is 40 to 50% and that radicalized prisoners have this same profile of recidivism when they leave prison. We have also gathered evidence of the proximity of prisoners who are radicalized in prison or convicted of acts related to religious terrorism, which confirms Professor Dantinne's observation. This kind of observation cannot, of course, be made without anticipating the measures that need to be taken. We know, of course, that there are local task forces. The first question is whether they have the means to act in relation to the twelve - if I am well informed - first radicalised detainees who will be released this year, but also in relation to the other sixty who will be released by 2020. Minister, what steps have been taken in prisons to try to de-radicalize these prisoners, if possible? Have they been evaluated for effectiveness? Will a risk profile be identified for these inmates? If so, by which body and according to what criteria? Which State agencies will analyse these cases in order to determine the responsibility and the burden in terms of the supervision and control of these persons? Finally, are measures intended to restrict freedom or movement both within and outside the country? This obviously raises the problem of coordination between Europol and the security or safety services of other countries. Will any action be taken against all these radicalized prisoners who will be released by 2020, considering of course the distinction that must be made between those convicted of terrorism and those who are ordinary law, radicalised at the heart of the prisons, on the one hand, and the distinction that must be made between those convicted of terrorism, as they say, and those who request their parole? I wanted to add a question, minister, but I imagine you will not be able to give me the answer today. So I'd appreciate it if I had the information in writing. This is the extent of the logistical and human resources that are currently deployed within the Public Prosecutor's Office and safety as part of the coordination work within the task forces. I would like to know what the forces in the task forces are to support this alarming phenomenon. Subsidiarily, are additional resources still envisaged in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Pivin, from the very beginning of the detention, he is betting on the detection of radicalization in prisoners. There is a great deal of investment in multidisciplinary training for prison staff. For a full overview in this regard, I can refer you to written question No. 2771 of 22 June 2018 by Mr Gautier Calomne. As far as the prisons concerned by the Flemish Community are concerned, the supervision is carried out by the deradicalisation advisers of the Flemish Department of Welfare. On an individual basis, they meet with all registered prisoners with a view to assessing their needs: either a specific framework for deradicalisation or disengagement, or a referral to the traditional services responsible for accompanying detainees. In addition, the Department of Welfare has organised a cooperation with the ASBL of imam Mr. Benhaddou who provides advice on a rather theological accompaniment and, if necessary, resumes this accompaniment in the context of the modalities of execution of the sentence. In the prisons concerned by the French Community, a comparable collaboration with the CAPREV service is applicable. Of course, you are advised to consult the competent Ministers of the Communities in order to obtain more detailed information in this regard. As far as the method of evaluating these initiatives is concerned, it also seems to me appropriate to question colleagues from the governments of the Communities. In collaboration with these services, we are currently working to involve even more the services of the chambers of justice, which are also within the competence of the Communities. This collaboration will be reflected in a joint circular in preparation which will be put on the agenda of the next interdepartmental conference of the houses of justice, on these houses of justice. In order to determine a risk profile, a distinction is made between prisoners who leave prison on an early release or other form of execution of the sentence, and prisoners who end their sentences. For the first category, the conditions are always imposed, mainly by the courts of enforcement, and take into account possible contraindications or risk factors. The reports and personality examinations prepared for this purpose play a crucial role in the form of opinions. In the case of prisoners who are not released in advance, the psychosocial unit of the prison prepares a final note. This is provided to the security services: the Security Service, the OCAM, the DJSOC/Terro of the Federal Police and the local task forces, as well as the local integral security cell, CSIL. This note includes information on behaviour, contacts, collaboration in accompaniment, reclassification and an analysis of ideology, intentions and psychic vulnerability. In addition, the risk of violent actions is assessed by the VERA-2R risk assessment instrument. It proposes a systematic and comprehensive protocol, comprising 34 indicators relevant to violent extremism. The State Security also prepares an exit note which is communicated to the security partners of the local task force and to the local full security cell. OCAM, in turn, conducts a threat analysis that is communicated to other partners. Finally, the services of the Communities shall ensure the transfer of the files to the services which continue the extra-mural work. Following the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, I have taken the initiative of a preliminary draft law currently submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. It provides that in the case of a release order, the enforcement court must clearly determine and specify whether a convicted person has permission to travel abroad and, if so, for what maximum duration and frequency. If the person concerned has obtained permission to travel abroad in his or her judgement, he or she must always notify the Public Prosecutor's Office on each occasional trip. Mr. Pivin, thank you. As long as I have not answered all your questions, I will return in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u25	Minister, you have already been very thorough. I do indeed expect further information on the number of staff available in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u26	Mr President, Minister, the Brussels District Court recently decided that the process of the Buizingen train disaster, which dates back to 2010, should take place in French, as requested by the defence. This is particularly painful for the victims. They probably have to wait longer for answers about what happened to them or their families. This decision threatens to bring the case to an end. That is the fear of victims and relatives. A new police judge and a new prosecutor will have to study and record the file. It is a rather heavy dossier that cannot be prepared in a few days. And some of the file may also need to be translated into French, although there is some ambiguity about this. The lawyer who asked for the reference to a French-speaking court said that not too many documents should be translated. I would have liked to have had some clarification on that. The case was to be dated within two years, as communicated by the public prosecutor. In the disaster, 19 people died and at least 310 were injured. It is of the utmost importance that the trial can take place in peace and serenity. That's why I have the following questions. Is there any real threat of a statute of limitations? If so, at what time? Is what the public prosecutor said, right, that this could be the case within two years? Will the Justice Department give priority to this case, as the President of the Court of First Instance has stated? When will it finally be possible to prevent and start the process?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u27	Minister, the District Court recently decided that the Buizingen train disaster process should change its language role. It is feared that this will lead to a statute of limitations. According to a calculation by the Public Prosecutor, that limitation period could start as early as August 2020. However, the lawyer of the requesting party considers that it does not need to come to that conclusion because large parts of the file have already been translated and he does not ask to translate the entire file, but above all wants to ensure that his client gets a trial in French. The President of the Court, Luc Hennart, is clear: "We are going to make sure that the case can be determined as soon as possible. The judge will need time to study the case. We are going to do what is necessary to bring the matter to French as soon as possible." I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, what initiatives can be taken to improve the situation and effectively avoid the limitation period? Secondly, was a case brought by one of the parties or the public prosecutor's office against the decision of the district court? If so, when does that occur? Thirdly, what is the concrete timing for dealing with this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u28	Mr Van Hecke, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the application for language change suspends the limitation period from its deposit, from 5 July 2018, until the first date of the hearing on which the file is renewed after language change. That date is not yet known. Therefore, further timing cannot be given. As regards the further examination of the file, the Halle-Vilvoorde and Brussels prosecutors are working closely together to ensure that the file is transferred quickly, under the supervision of the Public Prosecutor General. The Public Prosecutor-General has delegated two deputy prosecutor-general to the Brussels Public Prosecutor-General to continue to deal with the file with the highest priority in its entirety. A Dutch-speaking and French-speaking parquet magistraat, who already know the file, are therefore working diligently from now on. As regards the possibility of bringing an appeal against the decision of the District Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office considers that there is no basis for such action, which would render a case application unlikely to succeed. In the meantime, therefore, everything is being done to avoid the limitation period of the case. If we did not take this suspension into account, it would indeed be done by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We had indeed heard that there was a suspension period. It will run until the time when the matter is re-established, which is a good thing in itself because it means that the matter can be prepared in the meantime. The limitation period shall not extend until such time as the case is re-invited. Still, it's still two years. The treatment can take a long time and there may also be an appeal. One can almost be sure of that. That is almost as certain as asking for two readings in the Committee on Justice. Maybe they'll even go to Cassatie. Who knows, because this is a very big responsibility. So it's gonna be tight to get everything done within two years. I hope that the decision to order two Advocates-General of the Court of Appeal on this file is a good thing. However, one will have to work very hard and meticulously to avoid the statute of limitations, probably not before the police court but perhaps later in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u30	Mr Minister, I have asked you several times about the ground sleepers in Belgium, namely on 7 February 2018, on 7 March 2018, on 18 April 2018 and on 2 May 2018. On that day you replied that only eight prisoners were sleeping on a mattress, namely four inmates in Hasselt and four inmates in Bruges prison. Additional bunk beds would be placed to solve the problem. I was therefore surprised when I read in the Brugsch Handelsblad of 26 October 2018 that in Bruges prison 14 prisoners are sleeping on the ground again because of lack of free beds. First of all, how many prisoners are sleeping on the floor today per prison in Belgium? Secondly, how come there are more ground sleepers compared to 2 May 2018? Thirdly, what measures will you take to put all prisoners in Belgium to bed and solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u31	Ms Lambrecht, in Belgian prisons on 6 November 2018, there were ten ground sleepers, including six inmates in Bruges, three inmates in Leuven Help and one inmate in Oudenaarde. So there are no more ground sleepers than in May 2018. The complete disappearance of the phenomenon remains a priority. Within existing capacity, however, the fluctuations in the detention of accused persons make it difficult to avoid this in absolute terms. Over the past year, several structural initiatives have been taken. In a number of arrest houses with ground sleepers, 70 beds in Hasselt and 19 beds in Ghent were added in the course of 2018. In Bruges recently, after years of vacation due to a shortage of staff, section 38 was reopened, which means 44 extra beds. The reopening of wing B in Leuven-Central, which is 99 places, is also on the agenda. All these measures have contributed to a reduction in the number of ground sleepers. However, if a courthouse is faced with a large number of short-term detentions, as I indicated earlier, the number of detentions may well exceed the number of beds available for a short period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is still rather strange to hear that you are taking all kinds of good measures, such as the provision of extra beds or the opening of new sections, while we are still faced with the fact that persons, even if they are prisoners, who have to serve a sentence, do not have a bed to lie on. The question arises as to whether the persons concerned might leave prison much worse than they have entered. I will leave aside the security aspect of the guards, who have to deal with prisoners lying on the ground. You can say that it is only ten people, but I think that ten more than ten are too many. I cannot imagine that there is no possibility of providing a number of beds to avoid those ten ground sleepers. From previous answers, I thought I understood from you that zero sleepers were being sought and the number had also reached zero. Today there are ten more ground sleepers and perhaps their number is still rising. I therefore hope that you will be able to do something, so that we do not receive such figures anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u33	Mr Minister, since the law of 18 July 2006 on the privilege of the equally divided housing of the child whose parents live separately and on the forced implementation of the child's housing, more and more parents who do not live together are asking for residence co-parenting, which we know as a week-week scheme. The judge then examines the case and, as a matter of priority, opts for a system of equal distribution of the child's accommodation between parents. Mrs Christine Van Roy, who is a doctor at KU Leuven, has conducted an empirical study into the residence arrangements of children to see if an evaluation of the mentioned law is necessary. In response to an earlier question I asked, you knew that the defence of that doctorate would take place this autumn, hence the following questions. Are the results of the doctorate now available? If so, what results has it produced? When can the proposals for evaluation be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u34	As announced several times, Mrs Uyttersprot, both in the reports of the Family Courts Working Group and in the reply to your oral question of 23 January 2018, the doctoral examination of children's residence arrangements was expected by Ms Van Roy in the short term. The doctorate is at an advanced stage and will contain a wealth of information, taking into account the detailed analysis of case law incorporated in it. The defense is expected to take place in the first half of 2019. As such, it is not yet possible to release the results of the study. Once the doctorate has been defended, the results will be discussed at a meeting of the Family Courts Working Group. The overall evaluation of the operation of the family courts has not yet been finalised by the Working Group. The evaluation is foreseen in accordance with Article 273 of the Law of 30 July 2013 establishing a Family and Youth Court in 2020. I think it is appropriate to include the exercise you are proposing on the law of 18 July 2006 in the overall evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u35	Minister, in an earlier reply you indicated that the defence was for this autumn, but I note that it will take place in the first half of 2019. I look forward with you to the results, which will be part of a global review in 2020, including together with the Family Courts Working Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u36	Minister, the Federal Conciliation Committee, together with several partners, organised activities in the week of 15-20 October in the Week of Conciliation to promote mediation and to put more emphasis on it. There has also been a great deal of work in Parliament on this issue in the legislative area over the past year. Since 2 July, the legislative amendment on mediation has entered into force. At the same time, my bill on access rights for grandparents was also approved. Afterwards, this was extended to all beneficiaries who apply to the family court for a transitional arrangement with a minor child. The aim was also to ensure at the inaugural session that interested parties are well informed about alternatives for dispute resolution and to motivate and encourage judicial and extra-judicial mediation. Hopefully, these two measures will help resolve disputes between themselves. On the occasion of the week of conciliation, I have the following questions, Minister. Have you received any findings from the field, even though a period of three months since the legislative amendment is still too short for an evaluation? At the end of January I asked about the figures on the use of mediation in the courts of first instance and the family courts. The statistical project was still under development at that time. Any progress? How are we going to keep track of the figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u37	As regards the first question, Mrs Uyttersprot, it is indeed premature to draw conclusions on the reform, as the law was only published on 2 July 2018. In addition, part of Title 9 of the Law of 18 June 2018 has not yet entered into force. I haven't received any feedback from the site yet. As for your second question, the College of Courts and Courts project on the statistics of the family court is still under development. The project should also integrate statistics on judicial mediation and out-of-court mediation conducted by family courts under a specific code. The mediations that take place without any intervention from the court will therefore not be included. The College couldn't tell me when the statistical project will be ready. For figures on the use of mediation in general, I would like to refer you to the results of the conciliation barometer 2018, which was announced by bMediation during the Week of Conciliation on 18 October, in collaboration with the Federal Conciliation Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u38	Thank you, Minister. I note that you have not yet received feedback from the site and that the statistical project is still under development. I can imagine that this is an important source of information and hope that the project will be there soon. I will look at the figures from the conciliation barometer to which you refer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u39	Mr President, Minister, the law of 19 September 2017 on the fight against fraudulent recognition entered into force on 1 April 2018. This makes it more difficult to recognise a child when the principal is unable to prove any relation to the child and does so only in order to obtain a right of residence. Possession of state will no longer suffice in that case. Now that the law has been in force for six months, I have some questions. Firstly, how many investigations into fraudulent recognition of children have been launched since the entry into force of this law? Secondly, have people already been effectively convicted of fraudulent recognition? If so, how much? Thirdly, how many accreditations have been withdrawn since the law came into force? Fourthly, have residence permits already been withdrawn when a false recognition has been proven? If so, how much? Were these persons sent back to their country of origin? Fifthly, is there any idea of a uniform international law on fraudulent recognition? I know it's a lot of figures, but since the usual time limit for a 20-day written question and the recess was in between, I hope you'll be able to give me more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, neither the College of the courts nor the College of the Public Prosecutor could provide me with statistics on fraudulent recognition. The correcting Registrys are currently migrating from the REA/TPI system to the MACH application and the rules for the calculation in the new database could not yet be established. The figures of the civil registry shall be taken from the applications used by the Registrys to manage the judicial files. The IT application of the family courts does not allow to register the requested data. I would like to point out that a royal decree is in preparation that the Royal Decree of 16 July 1992 establishing the information contained in the population register and in the register of aliens will be amended so that fraudulent recognition can be mentioned in these registers. The Minister of the Interior is responsible for this. As regards your question concerning the withdrawal of the residence permit and the return to the country of origin, I would like to refer you to the competent Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. There is currently no legislation at international level to deal with the problem of fraudulent recognition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u41	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We regularly note that figures cannot be kept up to date or are insufficient, which is a pity if we want to check whether the laws adopted here achieve their intended purpose. That is a mere observation. We hope that further computerization will play its part. As far as the other questions are concerned, there are indeed parallel questions on the way to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u42	Mrs Smeyers is not here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u43	Mr President, Minister, last week there was a lot to do about the Gang of Nivelles. The federal parish removes Christiaan Bonkoffsky as the Giant of the Gang of Nivelles. That is very strange since attorney general Christian De Valkeneer a year ago was 100 % sure that he was the Giant. Shortly afterwards, Mr. De Valkeneer was no longer the head of the investigation, the federal prosecutor took command. The federal prosecutor's office is convinced that the file has been tampered with. Scientific research shows that a find in the Ronquières canal in 1986 was cheated. A year earlier, nothing was found in the same place. The new search team hopes to accelerate the investigation with a new call for testimonies. In the Faruk program at VTM last week, the parquet called for information. The parquet specifically hopes for information about a Volkswagen Golf, a member of the gang of Nivelles with striking wine or birth spot and about the diving action in the canal in Ronquières. The day after the delivery 72 new tips would have walked in. Hopefully, thanks to the new law on the regrets and these tips, we will be able to make progress in this investigation. When will we receive an update on the state of play in the investigation of the Gang of Nivelles? The last one dates from May 8th last? Has the law on the regrets already been used in this file? If so, did this provide useful information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u44	Mrs Lambrecht, first of all I must say that I cannot and cannot provide information on the concrete content, progress and results of the investigations and the ongoing judicial investigation. I would therefore not only violate the secret of the investigation, but also hinder the strategy and progress. This collusion may also lead to a risk of collusion. I will agree with the members and the chairman of the committee when it is appropriate to give a new state of affairs. Considering what I have just told you, this will also be done in consultation with the judicial authorities. The information I can give you now comes from the federal prosecutor's office. As indicated in the broadcasts of the Farok and RTL programmes, the investigation now focuses on the material facts, including the seized goods, documents and weapons, fingerprints, DNA traces and the alibis provided. The research aims to avoid assumptions and hypotheses that lack a factual basis. The question of whether there has already been use of regrets is one of the secret of the investigation. The new legislation on the regrets states that the use of a regrettant can only be confirmed if there is an agreement with it. As far as the identification of the so-called giant is concerned, the federal prosecutor informs me: "The investigation carried out so far, namely interrogation, comparison of DNA and analysis of the statements, shows that there is no evidence, even any serious indication that Mr Bonkoffsky is eligible as a perpetrator for the facts or some facts or a fact pending before the investigating judge in Charleroi." About the manipulation of the evidence and its perpetrators, the federal prosecutor informs me that this is being investigated in full. The possible consequences for these persons are that their actions of execution, appointment or preparation may lead to criminal participation, that is to say co-action or accomplice. About the information provided to the victims, the federal prosecutor informs me as follows: "The federal prosecutor believes that there is currently no need to organise a new meeting with the victims. The judicial investigation is under way. For certain aspects, the public's help was called on through the media in Flanders and Wallonia. A number of other aspects of the study were reported, e.g. the DNA study in Lyon and the emphasis placed on the material evidence. It is not possible at present, in the interests of research and its evolution and in view of professional secrecy, to explain which persons, pistes and situations are being investigated."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u45	Minister, I understand that you cannot always say everything. However, I believe that it is appropriate to give an update again, especially if so much is published in the press. In this way we can remove a great deal of speculation and certainly the idea that there is not much work to be done to clarify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u46	Mr Minister, this fine Latin exception actually refers to the guarantee of the claimed foreigner. A judge from abroad who does not have any funds or resources here can be asked to give a guarantee in case the trial he is conducting would be an unfounded trial and he would not be able to pay the costs if he were sentenced to do so. That is why a system was developed to make such a guarantee possible effectively. That provision is reflected in Article 851 of the Court's Code. There are exceptions to that article. They have to do with reciprocal treaties or the fact that the guarantee cannot be imposed on EU citizens. According to a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, such a guarantee should not have the effect that the foreign seeker would not have effective access to the Belgian court. In a question for a preliminary ruling, the Constitutional Court was referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling on the assessment of the following distinction. A Belgian defendant may claim such a guarantee in respect of a foreigner acting as plaintiff or intermediate party, but such a guarantee cannot be claimed in respect of a Belgian. However, both could end up in the situation of a possible unfounded case in which they could be ordered to pay the costs. The Constitutional Court ruled that the nationality criterion is not relevant for the purpose of ensuring that the costs are paid. According to the Court, not nationality, but rather the fact that the person concerned is resident abroad and does not possess any goods or funds in Belgium is the criterion of distinction which should be taken into account. In the previous legislature, our colleague Kristof Waterschoot was very far-sighted, because he then tabled a bill on this subject, in which he proposed that Article 851 be lifted. He argued that there are numerous exceptions and that the article is hardly being used, so that it can also be deleted. Others, however, follow the reasoning of the Constitutional Court and argue that it is not the nationality criterion that is the starting point, but the fact that someone does not own goods in Belgium and does not live in Belgium. The Constitutional Court has given some time to put these rules in order. Minister, how many more situations are involved? I ask that because I do not find any figures on the claim and the granting of a guarantee, nor do I know whether you have a view on the number of situations where proceedings are initiated which are declared unfounded and where the applicant cannot meet the costs. Do you have any more figures? Will you propose a legislative amendment on this matter in the short or medium term? Is there any provision for transitional measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u47	Mrs Becq, as you rightly point out, in practice a cautio iudicatum solvi is rarely applied for. The grounds for this are quoted in your question. Although the Constitutional Court does not impose on the legislature the obligation in the recent judgment you mentioned to delete that objection, it should be noted that, for example, in France, it has already disappeared from civil procedure since the decree of 20 July 1972. In our country, too, there have been long-standing calls for the lifting of Articles 851 and 852 of the Code of Justice. For example, one of my predecessors in this department, Mr Verwilghen, said in February 2000, in response to a parliamentary question, that he would be prepared to submit a draft bill for the lifting of Articles 851 and 852 of the Court's Code if no parliamentary initiative was taken on this matter. As you said in your question, Mr Waterschoot submitted a legislative proposal to that effect in 2012. The judgment of the Constitutional Court, which at least obliges us to amend the wording of Article 851 and to remove the nationality criterion, therefore gives us the opportunity to reconsider whether, in view of the developments described, it is still appropriate to maintain this objection in our civil procedural law. I myself am inclined to support those who advocate the abolition of Articles 851 and 852 of the Code of Justice. With regard to any transitional measures, it might indeed be appropriate to provide for an exception to the principle of immediate application of the provisions amending the rules on jurisdiction, as follows from Article 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure. It appears rather unreasonable in relation to a defendant to deprive him of the security of the cautio, if it has already been granted to him in the course of a pending procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for the answer that is quite clear. I think we need to consider how we can retable this in the next few weeks, as an amendment or as an element in some collectible law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u49	Minister, it is my responsibility that you plan to privatize the supervision of the courthouses on the weekend by entrusting it to private guarding firms. Do you confirm this information? If so, what is the motivation for this project? Which courthouses would be involved and from when? How many public jobs would be eliminated in this context? What would happen to the staff currently assigned to this task? Are staff members, both statutory and contractual, at risk of losing their jobs? If not, will there be an impact on their pay – for example, Sunday work bonuses? How much? What is the budgetary impact of such a decision? How much would it cost to subcontract this monitoring on an annual basis? And what is the current cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u50	Mr Van Hees, these issues must be addressed within the framework of the overall policy on the safety of judicial buildings. All strategically important judicial buildings are more or less equipped with integrated security facilities. The need for human intervention is inherent in these security systems: plant controls, alarm handling, adequate responses to crisis situations, depending on the nature of the incident, use of the police or other rescue services, etc. These missions are currently carried out by the Monitoring and Management department in addition to other missions. Based on the risk analysis and the estimation of monitoring needs per site, two types of teams are involved depending on the size of the building. A team of 11 employees is present 7 days a week, 24 hours a day or a team of 5 employees is present only during the day. When no employee is present, the security installations are obviously active and the alarms are processed within a call centre of a private security company, including, if necessary, an intervention by that company. The current working time regulation provides for supervision by a single employee on Saturday and Sunday. According to a recent opinion of the labour auditor, however, the presence of two employees should be systematically foreseen. As a result, the SPF Justice initiated a social consultation on the adaptation of the working time regulation and proposed the use of two employees on Saturdays and the abolition of the physical supervision of a worker on Sundays. The surveillance on Sundays is then carried out by the alarm system. A connection to the call centre and an intervention following an alarm are provided. This is only an amendment to the Working Time Regulation for supervisory and management employees who are part of a team of five, but in no case a total privatisation of supervision. As a result, no jobs will be lost. The following buildings are mentioned: Antwerp Court of Appeal, Turnhout, Tongres, Montesquieu in Brussels, Louvain, judicial building 2 in Nivelles, court of appeal of Ghent, Termonde, Huy, Dinant, Marche-en-Famenne, judicial building 2 in Charleroi and finally Tournai. For some, an extra Saturday bonus will be paid every week, but the Sunday bonus falls. The Saturday premium is 50% of the Sunday premium. The additional cost of using a private caretaker is marginal. The buildings concerned are already the subject of a contract necessary for connection to a call centre. Thus, only ad hoc interventions following an alarm will result in additional costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-07-54-commissie-ic994x.u51	Thank you for your answers, Minister. If I understand correctly, we are not going to replace public personnel with private personnel, but we are going to totally eliminate the physical presence on Sundays in the buildings you mentioned, which will be replaced by an alarm connected to a power plant. I understand the concern to have two collaborators instead of one, because assigning one person to the surveillance can be problematic in some cases. On the other hand, I am surprised by the decision to remove this presence altogether on Sundays. I guess if there was a physical presence, it was necessary. I can only question and worry about the sensitive data that can be found in such buildings. I also note that there is a financial loss in the remuneration of certain agents. I also regret that. The solution would probably have been to hire an additional collaborator to provide two guards on Saturday and Sunday.
