ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, this issue was already tabled in October 2017. Ms. Caprasse requested the postponement twice because of illness. By knowing how to live, I accepted. Don't get mad at the first of the 90 questions that are going to be addressed today. I didn't mean any harm to you! I come back to the adoption of the Royal Decree of 6 September 2017, regulating narcotic, psychotropic and soporific substances. On reading it, and in particular articles 6 (3) and (8), it would appear that drug testing is no longer permitted. While authorizations are allowed for supply or cultivation, the issue remains for the transport and possession of products and therefore for testing in particular. If these tests, allowing users to check if products are not cut off with hazardous chemicals, become banned, this would be a step backwards in terms of public health and risk prevention. It is well known that today many unknown products are added and mixed with new hazardous chemicals and that these checks allow for their identification and, in some cases, for the effective prevention of risks. What are the consequences of this royal decree on testing? Is it still legal? Will it always be possible to send the products to the laboratory? If so, under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u2	Madam President, I would like to thank my colleague Frédéric for agreeing to postpone his question. I'm not quite in shape yet, but I came because I wanted to intervene today. Thank you too, Minister. The Royal Decree, the subject of which was published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 September 2005, was adopted, if I refer to the sector concerned, without prior consultation with civil society, confirmed that any production of cannabis, in particular, is prohibited and unauthorized (Article 6) and ends the tolerance for possession of not more than three grams of cannabis by a major who was admitted in accordance with a circular issued by the Attorney General of 21 December 2005. Article 6, § 2 of the Decree stipulates that "the cultivation of cannabis plants (...) is prohibited and cannot be authorised", which means that possession of cannabis plants is therefore no longer tolerated, with the result on a more societal level than the creation of social cannabis clubs – which is referred to fairly regularly in the press – cannot be envisaged. Minister, how is the application of the Order reconciled with that of the Attorney General's Circular? There is a risk of legal uncertainty. Under this order, is there currently no legal or regulatory possibility of social cannabis clubs, which exist in other countries? Why have not the associations in the sector that assist drug addicts been consulted prior to the adoption of this decree? My second question concerns the extension of the reimbursement of cannabis-based medicines and the studies relating to therapeutic cannabis. The Royal Decree of 11 June 2015 regulating products containing one or more THCs (tetrahydrocannabinols) formally prohibits the supply of cannabis for medical purposes in Belgium. However, cannabis-based medicines are permitted, such as Sativex. Sativex is mainly used in the treatment of aggressive pain due to multiple sclerosis and is only reimbursed in this case and in case of delivery by the hospital pharmacist on prescription of a neurologist. Its effectiveness has in any case been demonstrated. According to my information, Sativex is not reimbursed for cancer-related pain, although studies are conducted on the subject. Furthermore, the possibility of delivering medical cannabis within the official is also being studied on the basis of an opinion of the Commission for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CMH). Without being a medical specialist, but attentive to the suffering of others, I recall that Article 11bis of the Law of 22 August 2002 on the rights of the patient states that "every person shall receive from health professionals the most appropriate care to prevent, listen to, evaluate, take into account, treat and relieve pain". We may be in a conflict of legislation, but I believe it is an essential task of public health to be able to alleviate the pain of patients as best as possible, without prejudice to the ban on the use of stupefying substances. Is the Minister considering extending the reimbursement of Sativex as part of the treatment of pain for other serious diseases such as cancers? Is the medical cannabis supply study being completed? Are further studies on the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes being conducted in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard that concerns have been raised about the impact of the Royal Decree of 6 September 2017, in particular about the added value of testing psychotropic substances on public health. I want to be very clear. Nothing has been amended by the Royal Decree of 6 September 2017 which mainly regulates the legal trade in narcotics and psychotropic substances. A person who holds illegally obtained substances as referred to in the Royal Decree is therefore still in breach of the drug legislation. This was the case before, and still remains the case. As a result, this person was never able to submit an authorization or a medical prescription for the possession of these substances. In the context of public health, however, I recognize the importance of being able to analyse the content of illicit substances purchased by the consumer. If the analyses show that this content is potentially dangerous, the user can be warned and the Belgian Early Warning System on Drugs of the Scientific Institute of Public Health can also send an alert to, for example, warn the health sector. Drug legislation can also be adapted if it is found that dangerous substances are not yet covered. That is why I extended the authorisation in 2015 of the asbl Modus Vivendi, which is in charge of the project for the analysis of psychotropic products – a project financed by the French Community – for the temporary possession and transport of these substances so that they can be analysed by the Institut scientifique de la Santé publique. This possibility of authorisation is still provided for in Article 7 of the Royal Decree of 6 September 2017. Mrs Caprasse, I come to your question about the Sativex. The marketing authorisation for Sativex does not include in its indications the treatment of pain in case of cancer, but in case of multiple sclerosis. Sativex is a treatment indicated to improve the symptoms of adult patients with moderate to severe spasticity due to multiple sclerosis, who have not adequately responded to other antispastic treatments and in whom an initial treatment trial has shown clinically significant improvement in the symptoms associated with spasticity. It's not a painkiller, it's an antispasmodic. However, it is the responsibility of the authorisation holder of the medicinal product to submit a dossier to the AFMPS to request an extension of the indication motivated by clinical studies in this field. The AFMPS will assess the dossier and, after a benefit-risk analysis, determine whether such a request is justified and whether the extension of the indications can be granted. The refund for the new indication must then be assessed by INAMI. As you know, the Royal Order for Sativex – the first cannabis-based drug admitted to our drug market – has been developed in such a way that it remains possible to broaden the scope of application. According to some studies, this medication would have effects for another indication. Already in 2015, I took a royal decree opening the door to new medicines that could relieve the patient. But if there is no request, there is not enough evidence, which is why there is hesitation when it comes to applying to the AFMPS. In any case, the procedure for medicinal products should be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u4	Minister, I have had a reassuring response to the concern I have expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u5	Madam Minister, with regard to the Sativex problem, I understand that the door remains open if studies prove to be positive. That's a good step forward. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u6	Barbara Pas is absent, her question No 22096 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u7	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to begin by saying that the questions that are to follow may be somewhat dated, but they are not; they are still topical. People with hearing impairment may call on the reimbursement of their hearing aids every five years. This is based on a minimum life span of five years for a hearing aid. Of course, there are patients who need a device for both ears. It's possible that one ear's device breaks down faster than the other. However, these patients need to purchase a new device for both ears if they are to be entitled to the refund, even if one of the two devices is still functioning perfectly. Madam Minister, isn't it true that in this way well-functioning devices are being referred to the wastebasket and patients are being chased at a cost? This is also a waste for health insurance. Could a more flexible system be developed whereby patients can also replace a hearing aid on one ear and benefit from its reimbursement? What's your vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, when a hearing aid is delivered, it is indeed expected to continue to work for five years, during normal use and maintenance. If one hearing aid of a stereophonic adjustment fails after the renewal period of five years, the patient is advised to take a new stereophonic equipment. It is reported that this is recommended because of the strong technological innovations and because both hearing aids have to communicate correctly at the same technological level. If both devices do not work properly or have the same operation, a deterioration of hearing may occur. For this reason, a rule was included in the nomenclature which makes it impossible to obtain compensation for a second hearing aid on top of a monophonic device if the rightholder was already eligible for stereophonic equipment at the time of delivery. So this is for technical reasons. The hearing aids are becoming more and more sophisticated, and function differently. It is necessary that both hearing aids can continue to communicate with each other, otherwise hearing would be disturbed and deteriorate more.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u9	Madam Minister, I had already understood that this was the case, and I can imagine that. On the other hand, however, people who have reached a certain age and who have very simple devices do not like to buy super smarts. It would be quite easy to replace the normal basic provision on one side, so I have at least been told. I urge you to think about that. Those who use a simple hearing aid are precisely those who have no money left to buy two devices each time if this is not yet strictly necessary. That is why I am in favour of looking into the specific situation of highly aged people who are asking for it themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u10	Madam Minister, this question was put some time ago. I've already questioned Minister Peeters about this. The High Health Council advocates the abolition of solariums for various reasons. It has been scientifically proven that exposure to UV rays can cause skin cancer and other skin and eye diseases. According to the High Health Council, a prevention campaign against skin cancer and the total ban on solarium use could result in the prevention of nearly 6,000 deaths over fifty years. The cost of public health could also be reduced by EUR 227.7 million by a awareness campaign and by EUR 238 million by a total ban on solar banks. However, the solarium remains a persistent habit for some. Controls of solar banks show that few are in order and provide accurate information to consumers. Some people even develop pathological addiction to the solarium. It is important to note that no safe exposure limit to UV rays can be established because there is no threshold at which skin cancer occurs. Minister Peeters wants to force the solar banks to install a skin measuring device in which the skin type can be determined. If that is not the case, the operators will have to send the users to the doctor for a certificate. Madam Minister, I find it difficult to imagine that a doctor would like to prescribe such a certificate, knowing that the patient's health may be seriously at risk, also knowing that there is no threshold for developing skin cancer. Who's gonna prescribe that? Minister Peeters has partly referred me to you. Hence my questions, Madam Secretary. Are you still planning a meeting with Minister Peeters to change his mind? The High Health Council's advice is clear, isn't it? Are you planning other measures to restrict or prohibit the use of solariums?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u11	Madam President, Minister, my question follows. I too have already put questions to Minister Peeters. The content of my question is the same as Mr Jiroflée's question. I'm asking questions about the High Health Council's advice. What will you do with that advice? I also have the same questions as my colleague on the skin measuring device, on the relationship of that device with doctors and on the way in which doctors will or will not respond to it in order to possibly provide a certificate to a patient and to a solarium centre unknown to them. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on the idea of Minister Peeters? Was that spoken through within the government or is it a personal balloon? Have you had any further discussions on that file? Our questions have been old for some time. Will you try to change your mind to Mr Peeters, or have you done so already? I still believe that it is your job as Minister of Health to follow the advice of the High Health Council and simply ban solar banks. Are there any further measures planned to proceed with the advice of the High Health Council and to address the prevention of health problems caused by the use of solariums?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u12	Madam President, questions relating to this issue have been raised some time ago. In the meantime, however, I have been told that this is not yet the case. After a progressive insight, Minister Peeters is aware of the fact that doctors do have other things to do than deliver certificates to patients to prescribe whether or not they should go under the solarium. As you point out, there is the Royal Decree of 24 September determining the conditions for the operation of solar centres, published on 2 October 2017. Article 9 of that Royal Decree states that a solar centre may only allow a consumer to use a solarium provided that that consumer is of age and has no skin type 1. This skin type can only be determined by a doctor in a medical certificate or jointly determined by the reception manager of the solar centre and the consumer, provided that the solar centre also has a device that can determine the skin sensitivity of the consumer. It is true that this is a competence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. He is competent to establish operating conditions for solar banks, to organise the checks on them and to determine any sanctions. This dossier is still on the move and Mr Peeters will know that some of the criticism must be taken into account in the decision-making process. If you ask me as Minister of Health who can safely get solar radiation on his skin, my answer is no one. This applies both to the users of solariums and to those lying on a towel in the sun all day long, wherever on this planet. There are more and more melanomas because people are more exposed to the sun. After all, our generation looks up the sun more, for skiing or in warmer countries. So people are now exposed to the sun much more than previous generations. As Minister of Health, I therefore recommend that people stay in the shade, protect their skin and try to avoid too much exposure to the sun. After all, we know that melanomas are not always noticed and sow quickly. There are also uncolored melanoma that one doesn't even see, but after which one is confronted with a metastatic melanoma. So I would be very careful with that. That is, of course, everyone's responsibility. Let us hope that it becomes fashionable again that everyone has a white skin or the skin that has been naturally assigned to him or her. There have been times when they used talcum powder to look whiter. After all, everything comes back. The Rubensian ladies are also back, albeit not yet in Humo, where they are Michelin women. However, I prefer the rubensian ladies. They weren't just round, they were white.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u13	Madam President, Madam Secretary, we are coming. Unfortunately, I myself am an experienced expert in this field. For that reason, I had to pull a melanoma. I got a big scar on my leg. I've been extremely proud of my white skin ever since. I would recommend the parasols worn in ancient times to protect the skin. Madam Minister, I am pleased that Minister Peeters has shown a moving insight and that the dossier is still on the move. I propose that, together with the other questioner, I return to Minister Peeters. Frankly, we cannot afford to delay a decision any longer. It's very clear. There is also a skin cancer day every year. The skin doctors warn very clearly. We all know very well that it is extremely dangerous. That is why I agree with my colleague, who said that it is your job to ban such matters. I would therefore urge you, together with Minister Peeters, to find a solution. I can imagine that this is formally the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs. To be honest, this is about health and the threat to health at a very dangerous and advanced stage. So I really insist that you, together with Minister Peeters, seek solutions. For me, the solution is to ban these things in our country. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u14	Madam President, Minister, it is indeed good news that nothing has yet been decided and that Minister Peeters is demonstrating a progressive view. I assume you played a part in that. If the same were to happen in the family pension file, we would have taken another step forward. However, that is another dossier. Of course, I fully agree with you that the ordinary sun and how we behave in it is already bad. You also say that it is the responsibility of each of us, which is, of course, a liberal approach. We both know that there are citizens who need to be protected from themselves in a number of respects. That is precisely your mission in your capacity as Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u15	It's a health and social problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u16	Madam President, Minister, last year I assume that this question is about 2016, since this question dates back to November 2017, according to the latest RIZIV figures, about 17 600 Belgian teenagers aged eleven to twenty would have taken antidepressants. The largest increase is in the age group from eleven to fifteen years, for which there is an increase of 8.4 % compared to 2012, which is huge. These figures must be a wake-up call for doctors, but also for our society. In the meantime, specialists agree that rapidly reaching for antidepressants often has little or no effect at a very young age. The first and main treatment in children and adolescents with depression is therapy and only in the second instance could the prescription of antidepressants be an option. However, the figures show that only one in four children taking antidepressants actually receive therapy. Madam Minister, I am actually asking again about the state of play here. You have promised to release funds from the end of this year for a better reimbursement of psychological care. It was supposed to be 22 million euros. I think this should only be a start, because that is just a drop on a hot plate, given the increasing need for mental health care. By the way, you also mention that there has been a directive on how to deal with depression for general practitioners. Madam Secretary, I come to my questions. What's the status? In addition to allocating a budget, are you taking any other measures to make mental care more accessible? What is your guideline on how to tackle depression for general practitioners? Will you also discourage the use of antidepressants in teenagers? In what way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u17	Madam President, Minister, these questions have been going on for a long time. I have heard from my colleague in the Flemish Parliament, Elke Van den Brandt, that during a debate on psychiatry problems among children and young people, the Green Party was accused of having hardly any questions about this. I am sure that you can put that right at an Inter-Ministerial Conference with Minister Vandeurzen. I have also quoted the same figures as my colleague Mr Jiroflée. I won't repeat them all here. Too many children use antidepressants, their use increases and so on. The bottlenecks are clear. There is still a taboo on mental problems and psychotherapy. There is also a lack of space and long waiting lists in mental health care. As far as the cost of visiting the psychologist is concerned, we are now on the right track. I have the following questions. Madam Secretary, what steps will you take, in addition to paying back the psychologist, to get these high grades down? Just paying back the psychologist won't be enough. What else is on the agenda to do together with your colleagues in the Länder in order to arrive at an integrated approach? How will you ensure that young people taking antidepressants still find their way to accessible psychotherapy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u18	Mrs Jiroflée, Mrs Dedry, first of all a clarification on the directive on adult depression: approach by the general practitioner. As the title indicates, this is a directive aimed at the target group of adults rather than at the target group of children and young people. That directive therefore focuses specifically on the different situations in adults. Several initiatives on accessibility and quality of mental health care are specifically targeted at young people. Firstly, there is the platform of experts in psychopharmaceutical BelPEP, which was compiled with the aim of promoting the rational and adequate use of psychopharmaceutical in Belgium. This platform focuses on psychopharmaceutical use in adults, the elderly, children and young people. Since 2017, the competent authorities of the Länder have also been invited to these discussions. This was a gap we were finally able to fill out. The sixth state reform has given the Länder the power to be incorporated into this platform as well. In addition to the working group on use in adults, a separate working group has been set up for the use of psychopharmaceuticals in children and adolescents. My question will also include the problem of the use of antidepressants in children and young people. Although these substances are not indicated for children, they are prescribed. Secondly, in the context of the new mental health policy for children and young people, we are making efforts to provide children and young people with mental and/or psychiatric problems with a faster and better response and with appropriate guidance or care. For this purpose, an additional EUR 28 million has been added annually from the federal level. In the interaction of all these stakeholders and with the investment mentioned, attention is also paid to the rational use of antidepressants. Several experts in this field were also appointed to jointly improve the quality of care, care and guidance in a more continuous manner. Now I come to the consultation with the Länder. On psychopharmaceutical use, regular consultations are held within the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health. For example, the identification of synergies in the policy on depression is listed as a priority for 2018. The use of antidepressants by young people will also be discussed; this is therefore also part of the 2018 mission. Thirdly, the Federal Council for the mental health professions is currently finalising the opinions on clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues, so that in future only clinical psychologists, clinical orthopedagogues and doctors can practice psychotherapy. This will ensure that prevention, diagnosis and treatment can take place at a high level, both for adults and for children and young people. As far as funding is concerned, there is a detailed track which is currently being tested by stakeholders and which we hope will be able to introduce before the end of this year. All these measures will undoubtedly have an impact on the problems that you have outlined and for which an approach has been called for for for a long time. We are taking this step by step at all levels. The sixth state reform, as well as the previous one, requires a great deal of consultation and cooperation with the Länder. In each region, we have a coordinator who will ensure that every child and every young person is properly cared for. Given the starting point, we have thus already made a long journey, but it is not yet perfect. Sometimes young people slip through the loopholes of the net. There are also patients who do not want to be treated. It is man's own business to fight against himself sometimes. In any case, we are doing our best to ensure that this vulnerable group can receive as full a reception as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u19	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I'm glad to hear you're taking the problem one step at a time. That's good. I'm just arguing for a little bit more speed. I will also stick to the argument that I have made a few times in the past, namely that the amount provided for in the refund will have to be increased systematically. I hope to be able to discuss this further in the course of the coming year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u20	I am pleased that cooperation is progressing more smoothly. Of course, it's very slow. I hope it can go even higher.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u21	Madam President, this is a matter that has been going on for several weeks. So I'm going to update it a little bit, if you don't mind, minister. It is true that at some point we had relayed the concern of home nurses about the requirement to verify the identity of patients when applying the fee-paying third party. This obligation was implemented on 1 October last. The facts on the ground did not give you any reason for what you had advocated. Anger was gloomy among independent nurses regarding several observational elements. The card reader was not working properly, and a difficulty arose when the ID card was out of date. The software was failing, the mutuals refused to bill for many of the services, although they had been properly performed, and there was a delay in payment for these nurses. A question was asked about this in plenary, to which you had already been able to clarify, but you were also going to investigate more. INAMI was scheduled to conduct an evaluation of the system on 4 December. Therefore, minister, could you take stock of this assessment? What was decided? What follow-up did you eventually set aside?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question will be short because I am particularly interested in your answers, after having asked you about this subject on a number of occasions. After finding many difficulties on the ground and refusing to freeze the device in a transient way – in contrast to what you had allowed for the doctors – you had announced a monitoring and specified that the administration was in the process of solving the problems encountered on the software. Minister, where are we today? What does the monitoring show? Are there still encoding difficulties? Or payment? Thank you for a brief review of the evolution of this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u23	Ms Fonck, Mr Senesael, as has already been mentioned in the speech in plenary session on November 16, 2017, I inform you that the obligation to verify the identity of the patient at the time of the service, when the paying third party is applied, was introduced by the Royal Decree of September 18, 2015. In this order, reference was already made to the verification of the patient's identity via the reading of the electronic identity card when the data are transferred to the insurers via an electronic network. Since then, the Commission de conventions pratiques de l'art nurse-organismes insurrectionnaires, has been informed of this obligation and has collaborated on the establishment of the related rules, as set out in the Health Care and Allowances Regulation of 3 October 2016. The professional organisations in the sector, represented in the Convention Commission, were therefore involved relatively early in the determination of the practical arrangements and the date of the obligation. Since the end of 2016, professionals, insurers and citizens have been informed, including via several web pages of the INAMI website. Software providers have been involved in the process of integrating this obligation. However, despite the smooth implementation of this procedure, problems arose during the production phase in October 2017. While this measure is widely applied by providers, there are still invoicing and payment problems for which we have requested an evaluation. At its meeting on 4 December, the Insurance Committee considered a 2017 report on the situation. Two observations have been made. First, the majority of billing and payment problems involved two software providers. Some nurses using these software would have been in a particularly difficult situation, as they had not received any payments for the period October-November. For other nurses using other software with patient ID, there were no specific technical problems. In response to this situation, the Insurance Committee agreed as follows. First of all, mutualities would lift the 5% blocking limit of errors as soon as a rejection related to the reading data of the identity document was found in the billing, until the end of 2017. The nurse would therefore be paid for the benefits without error. Second, the mutuals were going to establish an inventory of nurses who were still facing problems, that is, nurses who had introduced a bill but had not been paid and had not received any payments for the period October-November. After contact with these nurses, a down payment could be made, amounting to 90% of the amount of the invoices having been completely rejected, but this should remain the exception. Once the software problem had been resolved, these nurses were to transmit a correct bill to mutualities for the months of October and November. Third, mutualities would monitor "problematic" software and be able to test all the features further, until the problems were solved. Fourthly, INAMI would organize a consultation with problem software providers, nurses' representatives and mutuals representatives to determine the causes of the problems so as to avoid their recurrence. In fact, the National Intermutualist College has indicated that the processing of the latest files of users of problematic software, dated 6 December, demonstrates standardization. The National Union of Socialist Mutualities also reported that it had made payments on 7 December 2017 for 199 nurses. A communication containing the evaluation findings and initiatives, following the meeting of the Insurance Committee on 4 December 2017, was published on the INAMI website on Monday, 11 December 2017. Taking into account the practical adjustments made immediately after the implementation of the reading requirement, including possible exemptions from reading the electronic chip, as well as payment and billing problems, it is clear that the situation has become normal. We no longer receive complaints from home nurses. For the future, INAMI and its partners will continue their work to further simplify procedures. A specific flow of information is introduced between insurers and INAMI to monitor closely the evaluation of electronic reading measures. Home-based nurses, through their professional organizations, are always an integral part of the process of analysis, discussion and evaluation through the Commission de conventions pratiques de l'art nurse-organismes insurers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u24	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. This confirms that the assessment made by INAMI on 4 December allowed us to point out the malfunctions of software and billings, which you mentioned. You confirm that the situation has normalized in early 2018. INAMI carries out the assessment and tries to make any changes necessary to ensure that nurses can be paid in time. In any case, I think that this issue, which had started badly, finds a rather favourable outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u25	Madam President, Madam Minister, you've been doing the whole story again. I wanted to focus on the reality of the current terrain. I hear what you're telling me, but I still hear that there are difficulties. They are certainly limited, linked to certain software. But these difficulties persist, with a triple consequence: administrative burdens with lost time, late payment, and a significant cost, since it is the nurses themselves who have to pay for these software, and also pay for the verification of the encodings, if they do not do so themselves. We must have the courage to learn the lessons from this case. Thus, even if you say that the professionals have been informed since 2016, you took a royal order late to the extent that it was taken the day before the entry into force of this obligation with the nurses. It took this royal decree to make it clear. The day before, it's not the right time. There were also difficulties because you did not choose to work with some software validated and previously prepared so as to be available in time and optimally. The current situation would have been avoided. Another lesson: you have agreed to delay with transitional periods postponed for doctors. You refused to do it for the nurses. The result was chaotic management. By tomorrow, if there was the same type of case to be handled, it would have to be done differently. It is obviously important to fight fraud, but an effective system must be imposed. This one was particularly sloppy. I regret this and hope that those who still have difficulties on the ground will emerge quickly. Thank you, minister, for seeing things differently for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u26	Mr. Pivin is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u27	Our colleague had a question about the doctors. My question is specifically about the kinesis, following the new agreement M18, which was concluded at the beginning of this year and which stipulates that 40% to 60% should join the convention. Through the kinesis, I was asked whether it could be checked today on the basis of a current list of active kinesis and how far is the medical register for kinesis in the context of medical programming? The most recent data link for the profession of physicists was one for the period 2004-2010. At that time there was also the intention to do so more often and even permanently. In short, how accurate is the current list and what is the current status of the data link via the medical register for the kinesis?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u28	In 2018, the data links will indeed be performed sequentially for the following occupational groups: physiotherapists, logopedists, nurses, audiologists, audiologists, doctors and dentists. The results of the new edition of the data link of kinesitherapists will be available in mid 2018. The data link of doctors with data for the period 2004-2016 will only be available in spring 2019. The data collected in the data links, together with a whole range of hypotheses developed in expert working groups, are introduced into a mathematical projection model and thus form the basis of a series of future projections for the two language communities with regard to the necessary workforce of different professions and/or specialists. Both the final reports of the different data links and the worked-out workforce future scenarios can be consulted on the website of the FOD. The final report contains 36 parts, one of which is devoted to the situation of general medical practice in Belgium. This is an extensive work. In order to perform the data link, the data must first be complete. I do not need to repeat that it is not obvious to have all the data available immediately. In any case, this should be done in the installed mathematical projection model. So we are in joyous expectation together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u29	Madam President, Minister, in the context of home hospitalization, six of the twelve pilot projects relate to antibiotic therapy. These pilot projects should examine the possibility of administering antibiotic courses by infusion in a qualitative manner in a home situation. If these pilot projects prove successful, many hospitalisations could be avoided in the future. We note that in the implementation of these pilot projects agreements are concluded between hospitals and certain home nursing services. This allows patients to receive such therapy exclusively from these services. However, it also means that patients who have already applied for home care cannot call on their trusted home nurse. They are faced with a service for home nurses that they do not really want. The patient's free choice is thus compromised. There is also the impression that hospitals systematically exclude self-employed nurses from this care option, while the flexibility of self-employed nurses often responds much better to the needs of the patient. That is why I have the following questions. Is the conclusion of agreements between hospitals and home care services for the exclusive administration of antibiotics by infusion authorised by these services? If so, is that only for the duration of the experiment or will that exclusive cooperation also apply when the experiment becomes regular after a positive evaluation? How do such agreements relate to the patient's right to free choice in the appointment of a care provider, as provided for in Article 6 of the Law of 22 August 2002? Can a hospital, without any form of competition, conclude agreements with home nursing services for the exclusive application of certain nursing operations, without giving other services or self-employed home nurses a chance? How many hospitals have set up an exclusive cooperation with a home care service in the context of the antibiotic treatment projects at home?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u30	Madam President, Mrs Somers, I conclude from your questions that you are not only following the pilot projects on home hospitalisation in the context of hospital reform, but that you are also rightly concerned about the patient's freedom of choice. The fact that a patient can choose his caregivers freely is a value that I also consider very important. The hospitals selected to test home hospitalization in pilot projects work closely with the first line and with home care. Together with all healthcare providers, they make a lot of arrangements to ensure that care is taken together. In other words, they draw up a care path for home hospitalization. They agree where, when and for what, when they consult, they organise their communication across hospital walls and disciplines and they have a common patient file. They also make sure that people who receive care at home can reach someone permanently. Since it is home hospitalization, home nurses in such a care path are sometimes asked for actions that they no longer carry out regularly. They have been out for some time, for example, to keep antibiotic infusions going, let alone stab them. Since we also believe that the quality of pilot projects should be high, we have asked for concrete agreements between the hospital doctor and the other care providers involved, such as home care. This could be an additional training, a refresher of previously learned actions and so on. In the future, the home nurses concerned and the other care providers will continue to have to meet certain criteria. If these criteria are met, there is no reason why self-employed home nurses should not be able to participate in home hospitalization, for example for the administration of antibiotics by infusion. In the pilot projects we see no exclusive collaborations. This is what we want to keep in the future when it comes to generalization. In practice, however, it cannot be ruled out that the home nurse the patient wants does not actually want to participate in home hospitalization, for example because of the need for permanence. It must be said that it weighs heavily on one nurse when he sometimes has to observe permanence for weeks. Of course, the patient should always be able to opt for a specific home nurse, insofar as the nurse himself wants to cooperate. He or she should not only follow the training, but also participate in the permanence, registration and communication. The patient's freedom of choice must be preserved. We will certainly pay due attention to this in the possible generalization of these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u31	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I am pleased that free choice in the provision of care is being highlighted, but it is also stressed that the quality of care provision is particularly important. We must not lose sight of these two together. I am also pleased that no exclusive cooperation is being promoted. The patient should always be able to choose effectively. I would urge that the evaluation of the projects should look at this and that caretakers should be informed about it, for example when they are confronted with two caregivers because, as you rightly point out, one of them is unable to carry out the necessary operations with the necessary quality. We attach great importance to the free choice of care provision, but we also want to take this issue into account in the evaluation of these projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u32	Minister, for several years now I have been pleading and tabling texts so that, alongside organ transplants from corpses, living organ donation can be encouraged. This is all the more necessary as the number of body organs available continues to decrease. In addition, and unfortunately, many patients remain on waiting lists for a long time. My proposal made it possible to move the lines. You have made a commitment, and you have repeated it several times, to move forward on this issue. Moreover, you issued a press release in November 2016, in which you announced that the royal decree containing these measures would be published in the spring of 2017 before coming into force. Now, here we are in the spring of 2018, almost two years after your press release! And I still haven't seen anything, unless I'm mistaken and unless I've consulted the Monitor negligently. Minister, announcing measures is good – notably by promising a royal order. For my part, I expect actions. Where is this royal order allowing part of the medical expenses for organ donors? Why hasn't it been published yet, as you've been announcing it for two years? I really urge you to join the voice – in the unique interest of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u33	I broadcasted my press release because my services were ready. I must confess that this unfortunate delay is due to internal administrative reasons at INAMI. However, this file is absolutely not blocked. The Royal Order will in any event enter into force retroactively on August 1, 2017. It will therefore cover 90% of the costs for the living donor. A reflection is currently being carried out in my office to try to find technical solutions in order to resolve the difficulties raised in the predonation phase. As regards the problem of the possible loss of income, a study on this subject seems to me to be an inevitable step, given the complexity of the field and the multiplicity of social security schemes. I would also like to point out that a revision of the nomenclature on HLA typing in the context of organ transplantation is currently being published and will allow to take account of the many developments that have occurred in this field in recent years. The Chair: Ms. Fonck before I give you the floor for your reply, allow me to speak to say that you tabled bills that were not dealt with at our last meeting. I suggest you put them on the agenda for next week. Does that suit you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u34	Of course, Madam President. For me, these are important proposals for patients. Minister, thank you for your answers. I had been informed of the industry's revision of the HLA typing nomenclature. This is indeed a good thing, if it is done properly. Having said that, it seems surprising to me that, for almost two years now, we have been announcing, announcing, but there is still no royal decree. I do not know very well what the administrative reasons at INAMI level prevent this from happening. But I take note of your answer. You mentioned retroactive entry. Good! There is talk of 90% in terms of taking over costs. Don't forget that there is not just the peri-operative and the removal of the organ. There is also a series of controls to be carried out, later on and not only in the first year. I insist on that point. Let me also draw attention to the predon. This is important, since for a number of people who are being examined in the event of a live donor organ removal will not be retained either because they are carrying a pathology or because there is a problem with HLA typing. It is therefore important to recognize and take care of the predon component. Madam President, I would like to thank you here, because other concrete advances that are put on the table in the context of proposals could help a number of potential living donors. But we will come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u35	Madam Secretary, on the ground, I hear that nurses are excluded from certain pharmacological conferences. Written evidence was provided in which Mdeon refers to a FAGG directive which states that nurses should not be exposed to prescription advertising for medicinal products, which is often the case at those congresses. Firstly, can you clarify exactly how this works? Secondly, do you think it would be desirable for nurses to be excluded from conferences or, as it seems sometimes happens on the premises, to sit in isolation, including during breaks, or to walk around with colour badges, in order not to get in touch with the rest of the people who are being advertised? Thirdly, why should a health care provider who is confronted daily with medication and all its care aspects not be able to train at relevant conferences?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u36	Mrs Van Camp, there is a strict regulation on advertising of prescription medicinal products for human use. This can only be addressed to the persons empowered to prescribe or supply medicinal products. In Belgium, this concerns pharmacists, doctors, dentists and midwives for a limited list of medicines which they may prescribe autonomously in the context of the follow-up of normal pregnancies, the practice of normal delivery and the care of a healthy newborn in and outside the hospital. This is a result of the Belgian legislation transposing the European Directive 2001/83. However, the regulation does not mean that nurses or paramedics should not be informed about the proper use of medicinal products where necessary, or should not participate in scientific conferences. It is only prohibited to advertise to nurses and paramedics for prescription drugs. Therefore, when advertising prescription medicinal products in an exhibition area of a scientific manifestation on which nurses are present, the necessary measures should be implemented to allow compliance with the rules. On 26 August 2014, the non-profit association Mdeon addressed a communication to companies and organizers of conferences with practical measures that could be taken to avoid the need to split up the exhibition halls. So the situation you are describing is not really necessary. Information and explanation can be provided in a perfect way, including to nurses. That would also be very useful. But the European directive says that they should not be confronted with real advertising practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u37	Then what exactly is in that letter? If there is advertising and the conference is accessible to nurses, they work with a color badge, to house them in separate rooms. Is that what Mdeon's letter says? 'Cause you're saying you don't have to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u38	No, according to our information, that is not necessary and they do not need to be in separate exhibition rooms, as long as they apply the directive correctly. I also often go to conferences and I haven't often seen separate exhibition rooms, to be honest. If you say it's happening, I believe you. Then it should be pointed out that this is necessary for nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u39	The rule is that there is no advertising.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u40	Madam President, Minister, this is a somewhat longer question with some technical aspects. These are ongoing reforms of the procedure for reimbursement of medical implants. I was contacted from the sector by the orthopedists involved in the way the reforms are drawn up. They see this as a lack of transparency. This is particularly true of the way in which savings are pushed through. The sector certainly wanted to point out that it had to accept some of the savings, which had also been clearly stated in advance. For them, however, it is about how that happens. This was a saving of EUR 40 million, decided at the time by your predecessor. An amount of 8 million had yet to be achieved. So it's about the remaining 8 million. Once again, for the sake of clarity, the sector supports this saving but does not support the way it is done. In the meantime, the procedure for recognition and reimbursement would be reviewed. For the time being, however, there is no white smoke. I have a few questions about the procedure for reimbursement. Are you still in the process of reviewing the procedure for reimbursement of medical implants? Can you give us an update? Can you give me an exact deadline? When does this have to be done? You planned a similar exercise for the IVDs. Has this review been completed? Finally, apparently, the mutualities with voting rights would be represented on those committees. Is that the case? That's not desirable at all, is it? My second question concerns the 8 million savings exercise. Is it true that there has been a proposal from the sector itself to carry the savings linearly, which would also reduce the patient's contribution? Is it true that this proposal was not accepted? Why didn't that happen? Is it true that a working party has been convened to draw up this saving? Who's in there exactly? Is it true that there is a proposal from that working group to limit the existing categories of implants and medically invasive devices? If so, why? What's the advantage of that? Is it also true that this proposal seeks to offset some of the payments? If, for example, payments for hip implants were to be forfaitarised, what would be the point of the register? Is it true that purely from a financial point of view, revisions would become less attractive to hospitals? In this exercise, the patient contribution should be reduced to 5%. Is it true that this saving then largely flows back to the mutualities? The contribution is largely covered by the supplementary insurance. Is it true that the government and therefore the taxpayer are not really going to save in that story? Will you calculate the savings in the amount for the mutualities? Has the Belgian Hip Society or any other representative of the site been heard in this exercise? In what way and when exactly? Has the proposal already been approved by the committee? Who voted and how? Is it true that only the mutualities voted for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u41	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u42	Yes, Madam President, Mrs Van Camp asked a lot of questions and can read quickly. I will probably respond a little slower, and my answers will take a little more time, so that the interpreters may be able to catch their breath. Mrs Van Camp, in the context of the Pact Medical Technology that I concluded with the medical technology industry, MedTech, it has indeed been agreed to introduce improvements which, after two years of operation, result from the Commission's assessment of implants and invasive medical devices. This work is therefore in full swing. The focus is on faster but controlled access to innovation for our patients, guaranteeing quality, safety and effectiveness, but also administrative simplification. The core, being the evidence-based decisions, remains. A draft law has already been drawn up for this purpose and is currently being worked on by the RIZIV, in consultation with BeMedTech and the aforementioned committee, to make adjustments to the royal decree laying down the procedures. The intention is to have a detailed proposal of adjustments by the end of 2018. As regards the IVDs, the Pact with BeMedTech agreed that the reimbursement procedure for the IVD tests would be made more transparent for the applicant. It is by no means intended to introduce a procedure similar to that of medicinal products or implants. The finality of the tests remains the central criterion. This evaluation will therefore not have to be carried out on a product-by-product basis. The Clinical Biology Working Group of the Technical Medical Council will shortly examine an internal working procedure so as to ensure transparency and to respond to the industry's question as to whether the applicant can be kept regularly informed of the state of play of his file. Joint management is the basic principle of social security and therefore health care. Like the representatives of hospital pharmacists, doctors and universities, insurance institutions also have the right to vote in favour of proposals for compensation for implants and invasive medical devices. The committee was instructed to draw up a proposal for savings of 8 million in accordance with the principles of evidence-based medicine and to pay particular attention to patient protection in order to avoid the increase in own contribution. The proposal of the sector had a clear budgetary impact on the patient and was therefore not based on evidence-based medicine. On 16 March 2017, a working group came together to gather ideas to achieve the required savings. Each member of the committee was invited to attend. All discussions were then held during the committee, on which, as you pointed out, all stakeholders are represented. A proposal on the existing categories of implants and invasive devices has never been discussed and is therefore non-existent. In fact, the Commission's proposal for compensation for implants and invasive medical devices for achieving the savings includes a flat-rate reimbursement of the hip prosthesis. The remaining savings are achieved by a linear drop in prices. Firstly, the defaitarisation of the refund of the hip prosthesis goes hand in hand with the deletion of a large number from the nomination list. The reimbursement is therefore easier, but the ORTHORPIDE register remains very useful. We will have long-term information on the quality of the various prostheses through the ORTHORPIDE register. There are more and more registers of orthopedics in Europe and around the world to collect long-term data over a period of more than 10 years. After all, a clinical study is never conducted over such a long-term period. If the data show that a prosthesis produces better or worse results, then we will have the opportunity to respond with knowledge. In this connection, I would like to refer to the problem of metal friction heads, which has been discovered by such registers. The ORTHOpride register also facilitates the revision of orthopedic surgeons because they already know in advance which prosthesis was implanted with the patient and whether or not cement has been used, even when the prosthesis has been implanted in another hospital. The same reasoning was used as for a primary placement. That is, no difference between cemented and uncemented votes. At the request of some members, as well as of the Belgian Hip Society, a package of cement was included in the proposed refund. So the Belgian Hip Society was indeed involved because they have taken their question into account. For the acetabular part, the specific benefits in kind for reconstruction will remain. They have a higher refund than a normal cupula. The patient's personal share in this proposal is 9% or 5%. This was proposed by the committee to ensure that after the review it would never be more expensive than in the current situation. The high supplements for some types of prostheses are also not justifiable. The differences between the techniques were also eliminated, as the choice of the implant depends on the indication, but also on the patient's anatomy and the surgeon's choice. The savings on the budget Implant, and therefore for the government, amount to about 2 million euros. The BVOT, like the SORBCOT, was invited by the Committee on 9 November 2017, before a decision was taken. As a result of this discussion, the Committee decided to grant an increased refund to the resurfacing prosthesis. With regard to the revision prostheses, which were used during the primary interventions, the Committee proposed applying a principle of compensation of profit and loss to the flat-rate reimbursement system, given that it only covers 50 cases a year. At the request of the Belgian Hip Society, the Committee also decided to launch an initiative to study the possibility of reimbursement for cement used in treatments other than the fixation of a prosthesis. The proposal was adopted by more than two-thirds majority in committee on 9 November 2017, namely 13 votes in favour, 1 against and 0 abstentions. This proposal was also submitted to the General Council of 11 December 2017, as requested by the Government when adopting the 2018 budget. All steps were followed and the Belgian Hip Society was not only heard, but some of their questions were also met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u43	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I'm about to unplug this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u44	Madam President, Minister, the federal strategy for an efficient anti-tobacco policy also included the evaluation of neutral cigarette packets. It is important to check whether there is any impact in the countries around us on people who stop or do not start smoking. We are thinking of France, where it was introduced on 20 May 2016. Ireland and the United Kingdom have also been followed. Maybe it's too early to see the effects, even though it's been almost two years. We do know from the evaluation in Australia that an island is, like Britain and Ireland, that the impact was widely estimated. The fact that it is less attractive for young people, that health warnings are better reflected and that the less misleading nature of packages has been expressed as positive benefits. As a result, it was found that, among other measures, there was a decrease in the number of smokers in Australia. Where are you on the evaluation of the introduction of plain packaging in the UK, France and Ireland? Are there any findings yet? If so, which one? What is the timing for completing the evaluation of the neutral cigarette package? What is the timing of a positive evaluation of the neutral cigarette package in terms of the procedure and the final introduction?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u45	Madam President, I will not go back to the very tense discussions we have had on this subject, even though this has recently calmed down. I believe I have kept a rather isolated position on this matter. It is true that the lines have moved a little, but not yet enough to my liking. Although you have not objected to it in recent times, you are, however, moving backwards on this issue. It seems to me that there is an important issue and it is not a measure alone that will change anything about tobacco consumption. But it could have a deterrent effect and, above all, prevent young people from having the urge to start smoking. If there is one strategy that is fundamental to me, it is to maximize the number of young people who do not want to touch tobacco; the most effective work that can be done, and perhaps the easiest, is to prevent them from starting smoking. Indeed, once the step has been taken, even though initiatives to stop tobacco addiction must be supported, it is increasingly difficult for smokers to stop smoking. Madam Minister, will we make concrete progress in introducing the package of neutral cigarettes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u46	Dear colleagues, as I have already indicated in my federal strategy for an effective anti-smoking policy, my willingness to implement standardized packages for cigarettes and tobacco is present. It remains complete and I want to implement it as soon as possible. Several discussions have already taken place on this subject with the competent services. An impact study on the implementation of the measure in France and the United Kingdom in the course of 2017 was planned under the Tobacco Plan. In the short term, the administration promised to provide me with a summary of the already available data which will reflect the impact of this measure in both countries. It goes without saying that we will take this analysis seriously. At the same time as the summary of French and British situations, my services are working on a preliminary draft legislation taking into account the experience of our neighbours. It is on this basis that I will then begin discussions to finalize the dossier. If necessary, stakeholders will be consulted during this phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u47	Madam Secretary, it is clear that they are working on it. It would be useful if we could take note of the interim synthesis as soon as it is finished. The study has not yet been completed, but I hope that it can be completed before the summer, so that the government can take another important measure to reduce the attractiveness of smoking among young people in the event of a positive result.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer, although we are still at the stage of evaluation, follow-up studies and synthesises. I would like to remind you of the studies already carried out on this subject by scientists and health actors, which are also extremely positive. I want to say that we have to stop using all the tricks and strings in this case. You really need to move forward. I mean, if necessary, you're going to consult with actors. I hope we only talk about health actors and not cigar makers. That would be shocking! I have already told you several times: you are very attentive to this sector, but you are first and foremost Minister of Health. You're not Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u49	No producer of cigarettes or tobacco will be received in my cabinet. Where do you get that? Then name names and facts! In my cabinet, those lobbyists for tobacco, alcohol or drugs are not received. Where do you get that? I'm not gonna take that accusation. No way! You're talking to it. I don't. You may do so as a Member of Parliament, but those people have no business in the Minister of Health's office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u50	Minister, you're still agitating! I don't want contact with cigar makers, not even as a parliamentarian. I believe that in this case only one issue must be taken into account: health. However, I note that, for years, we and the health community have been advocating for progress. I note that cigar makers are against it, and they have said so as they wish. You move backwards and you make resistance. When you say you're going to consult actors, I say again that they can only be health actors. Every effort is made to make packaging attractive and attractive. Tobacco advertising and packaging are and continue to be factors that encourage tobacco consumption. We have leverage to act on these factors. You're always talking about costs, but it doesn't cost the state anything. These are levers that we must use. We will see whether or not, after so much procrastination on this issue, things will be realized before the end of this legislature. "ASAP" is certainly the right word for this file. You didn't apply it to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u51	MM. Van Hees and Hedebouw are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u52	The question of the moratorium on district health centres may be deleted, as it is obsolete. At that time you replied that you did not know about a district health centre in Opglabbeek and you said that there was certainly no recognition. Now that the moratorium has been lifted, the playing field has changed. What's the status of that file? I have already mentioned the link to the website in my question. You mentioned that the centre in question would do this through performance medicine, but from the website we learn that it does offer standard medicine. How do you explain that? What's the status? I also read in the weekly magazine Knack: "Concretely, the PVDA wants to question tens of thousands of people in the coming weeks and months, not through a commercial survey agency, but directly with hundreds of volunteers all over Flanders. Grosso modes are three places important to us: door to door, companies and offices..., and waiting rooms of Medicine for the People in Hoboken, Deurne..." So it is literally said by the PVDA that the WGC in Hoboken is an action center to carry out propaganda. I've brought that to your attention before. You denied the problem at the time. Now I think that this has produced very clear written evidence. Can you now acknowledge that there is effective propaganda in the WGC of Hoboken? What measures are you planning to take against this? I also have a number of questions about the audit itself, which has now been completed. The resulting part of the study is in fact a survey with the WGCs themselves. Where is the comparison with the other forms of care, such as performance-funded general practitioner's medicine? It is of course nice that the practice of the WGCs is mapped out, but we are particularly interested in a comparison with the performance-funded general practitioners' practices. Apparently, part of the WGC's, in particular the aforementioned Medicine for the People, did not participate in the survey. How many WGCs were questioned and how many refused to participate? What does that mean, in your view, for the representativeness of the study? Why didn't you ask for a real screening of all WGC's, including those of Medicine for the People, with a comparison with performance-funded general practitioners' medicine? Thirdly, what conclusions do you draw from your survey and what consequences will you give? Will the WGCs be able to be recognized immediately, with the funding and the conditions that existed before? For example, the study highlights the need for a geographical distribution plan. At what time do you plan the work of the group exactly? Fourth, do you have a ruling on the patient population? It is often said that the WGCs have a younger patient population. I asked a written question on this, and that was confirmed. Is that right? Was that taken somewhere in the exercise? Fifth, at present the WGCs can rely on additional aid, unlike the performance-funded general practitioners' practices, such as interest-free loans from health insurance funds. Does that remain possible for you, or do you want to limit it? Sixth, what budget went to the WGCs last year, before the moratorium? How many patients are connected to that? How much budget went to the performance-funded general practitioners' practices? How many patients are connected to that? Finally, the survey also shows that the Flemish WGCs handle the funds better than the Walloon ones. How do you explain that difference? What actions do you plan for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u53	Madam President, I am a little surprised that my question is still on the agenda, because I have already put it in plenary. I thought she'd be automatically deleted here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u54	Not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u55	In the Flemish Parliament, (...) per cent of the questions are refused because they are not drawn up as they should be. What's happening here, I actually find scandalous. Parliament must give itself a little more respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u56	Madam Secretary, I respect you and will not repeat the debate. In plenary, you said that the working party would come forward with proposals by April and I will then have the discussion with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u57	Madam Minister, you will of course give the answer that you think is most appropriate in the light of the evolution of the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u58	Madam President, like the previous question, this question was introduced several weeks ago. I am not going to use the terms of the question. It was pointed out that it had been the subject of a speech and debate in plenary. Minister, how are the announced operational improvements being considered? What is the composition of this working group? Is there close consultation with medical homes? Recommendations were expected. I have not taken a specific date on this. Can new medical homes still be recognized and funded for the time being?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u59	Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to take stock. A study was carried out by the AMI (intermutualist agency). The audit findings you requested came in the fall. You lifted the moratorium. Now we have to follow the file. Can you give us more concrete information on the follow-up to be given? How will you combine the information you have from the work that has been done? The two studies are sometimes based on different but interesting criteria and reading grids and, in my view, complementary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u60	In addition to what I said in plenary in reply to your question about the district health centre in Opglabbeek, Mrs Van Camp, I can tell you the following. The district health centre in Opglabbeek is in itself not a district health centre, but an additional consultation room of the medical home Althea, which has been operating in a flat-rate system since 1 July 2000. So we first looked for a district health centre, but there was no one there. However, there turned out to be a consultation room, a satellite, of an existing district health centre. The current rules do not exclude this approach, which means that we do not have to consider measures to do so. As far as your second question on Hoboken is concerned, if that happens, then we can all think about it, but the question is whether the activities concerned interfere with the provision of health care for which the lump sums are paid. On the basis of the information I have at my disposal, that is not the case. I therefore see no legal basis within the legislation on compulsory health insurance to take action in this area. As far as the questions concerning the audit and the moratorium are concerned, I have already answered many of these questions. I do not know if you were present at the time, Mr Senesael, but I said, among other things, that there was a moratorium pending the audit. From the moment the audit was completed, the moratorium would be lifted. I also said that those who applied would have to meet certain criteria. This avoids creating district health centres such as those whose audit shows that they cannot work cost-effectively. The same thing happened to the guards. May I remind you that during the moratorium a number of district health centres in application were also passed on by the Insurance Committee? They've been able to settle in. It is strange that a number of questions that were already inside were not added at that time. I got five questions then. A number of questions could have been added. I have clearly indicated what we learned from the audit, including what is not in the audit, but some people have read in it without reading it. There are clearly a number of weaknesses in the audit, such as over-financing of district health centres, namely the finding that funding per patient is higher than the cost of performance per patient. We have also been financially examining where this over-financing comes from. This is a mechanism in which funding has always been increased in different ways, in particular at three different times. There is also a lack of transparency in the sources of funding, as mentioned here by Mrs Van Camp. It is true that there is a flat-rate funding of the RIZIV for the patient. Others, however, also have other sources of funding, for example from the province, the municipality, the city and from a number of welfare organisations, where one is linked to the other. There is also insufficient registration of patient contacts. There is certainly also, as they themselves state, insufficient recording of the referral to the second line. There is a low number of patients per active doctor and a high number of general practitioners in training. In this respect, I am concerned about the quality of the training: few patients for an approved general practitioner and many general practitioners in training. In my opinion, a general practitioner is in training because of the risk of developing too little expertise and not seeing enough patients. There is also a small participation in watchkeeping services by doctors associated with district health centres, which is a problem on the ground. The patients of the district health centres are enrolled on a flat-rate basis. They end up in the general practitioners' wards, where they have to pay, or they end up in the general practitioners' wards, as there are still many of them, on weekends or nights. So there are plenty of pain points. Mrs. Van Camp, I've lost the right number. However, there was sufficient participation in the questions by the district health centres. Only one group has indeed refused manifesto. You're shaking no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u61	I am shaking no, because I find that very problematic, because it is a group that was known in the past for deficits and lack of cost-effectiveness. If that whole group is out, then of course that affects the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u62	Yes, but it is also noted that they have apparently refused to cooperate and so it has been chosen to have the audit carried out at the other district health centres, and that was enough. However, if conclusions are drawn, they will also be applied to the District Health Centres of Medicine for the People, but apparently they were afraid to submit their annual accounts and not disclose their sources of funding. Perhaps some would have been compromised by this, because we know that this is taking place here and there in our country quite a bit of political action. However, it is, and enough district health centres have cooperated to deliver reliable results. I asked a working group to make proposals on how we can make the functioning of the district health centres and their funding more cost-effective and how we can work on quality, including the quality of the training of general practitioners and the continuity of care. The working party will submit proposals to me before the end of April and is composed of the members of the Forfait Committee and the members of the Insurance Committee. This is also quite a step forward in comparison with the past because when the Commission could only take decisions, the Insurance Committee is now involved. The working party may also call on experts, but it will therefore take about two months before we can discuss this further. You also say that there was a striking difference between Flemish and Walloon district health centres, but I think there were striking differences between district health centres, not only between Flemish and Walloon district health centres. Indeed, no comparison was made that was also not requested in this audit of the costs of patients with general practitioners, as those costs already know the RIZIV. Mrs Gerkens, I refuse to talk about the audit and to implement the conclusions of a study which was not a study by the intermutualist agency, but a study which was "heated" before having the conclusions of the audit and which had a completely different scope. That was a sample where comparisons were made that were totally taken off the pot, where people talked about the costs incurred in the district health centres. It is said that they are twice as expensive in the first line, but that they refer less to the second line. However, the district health centres say that they do not keep up with these referrals. We must also include the cost of rest homes and care for the elderly, in which they are not involved, because there are more young people in that system than ordinary general practitioners. These are all skews that are going to lead their own lives and are repeated by a number of parrots. These things are also deliberately thrown into the press without proper audit. I refuse to take into account that study, which is not a study, but a sample that was extrapolated. That's where things got dragged that don't matter. I can make studies like this with a wet finger.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u63	Thank you for your clear answer. However, I have two further questions to ask. Firstly, you said that they could rely on interest-free loans from, for example, the mutualities. Am I to understand that you have no plans to forbid it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u64	Of course. I answered that question at the time. I said that in plenary. You were there. I said: is it the job of district health centres to offer interest-free loans? Is it their job to sponsor a seal shelter? I said all that in plenary. I'll give you that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u65	So it's your plan to limit that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u66	Yes, of course. That is not the intention of a district health centre. The aim is to guarantee the health of people in the first line, not to give interest-free loans to tutti quantums.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u67	My question was mainly about the fact that they receive interest-free loans for their operation, not about the fact that they themselves offer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u68	They're offering it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u69	My question was about the loans they take out before they start up and so on. I have one more question that's open. You said in your reply that you did not ask for a comparison with the performance-funded general practitioners' practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u70	You can't do that in an audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u71	I asked you about the figures: what budget goes to the WGCs and how many patients are associated with them, and how much budget goes to the performance-funded general practitioners' practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u72	I invite you to read that study. That's what it says in concrete terms. It's been a while with me. That study was published a long time ago. It took me a whole weekend to read them. I invite you to read them. She's really interesting. I believe that a budget of about 170 million a year is now going to the district health centres. Correct me if I'm wrong. How many patients are received there is in the study. There are those who work more cost-effectively than others. As with the sentries, we see a factor in this. There must also be a certain scale in order to be cost-effective there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u73	And for the other practices, what are the figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u74	What practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u75	The performance-funded general practitioners' practices, their budget and the number of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u76	It's divided between fees for general practitioners. I'll get you the numbers. With a budget of 25 billion, excuse me for not knowing all the figures from outside. I don't want to say stupidity. Last year it was around 170 million for the district health centers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u77	163 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u78	They exceeded 8 million, i.e. 163 million and 8 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u79	I'll get those numbers so I can make the equation. You say there were plenty of WGCs involved. I find that problematic. You say that this does not matter, because the conclusions will be applied to the whole sector. These conclusions are, of course, influenced by the fact that a sector, which is likely to have something to hide, is not included. You say that quite correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u80	The choice was there, or let us not carry out the audit. This wasn't the only sabotage of that audit. That's why it started so late. There were a lot of people who never wanted the audit to show the light. We have continued and had that audit carried out and said, with the help of your party and the government parties, that the moratorium will not be lifted until that audit has been completed. After that, the others did cooperate, but at the beginning they didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u81	Thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u82	To be brief, simple and short, and since a reply should not be used to ask other questions, I would like to give you an appointment at the end of April, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u83	It's my birthday month.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u84	By the end of April, it will be mine, too. We'll celebrate by talking about medical homes. With regard to all data, elements, if complementary, are also of a different nature and have different objectives. This was the case with the 2008 KCE study, which also used another methodology. I find that the practice of medical homes deserves to be questioned as to the wholeness of finding the specificities of these institutions and improving their functioning, on the basis of the various data available. The whole thing was interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u85	Minister, for some of the questions you have asked, you say you have already answered them. I would like to remind you that it is you who can say it and not me. So not to repeat yourself, your answer may well be: "I have already answered. Go to the answer to the question!" I can't do it, but you can, from the moment the House services ask you the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u86	Madam Minister, it is almost two years since I asked you a question about a commitment in the future pact to improve or accelerate access to innovative therapies after approval. At present, you will have to make a decision within 180 days. If that decision is positive, it will take another 75 days to pass that decision through the Council of State and publish it. You had committed yourself to shortening the deadline of 75 days. You replied at the time that the deadline would be effectively shortened, that there would be IT adjustments for this and that the RIZIV would draw up a schedule. Madam Secretary, what has happened since then? What else has to be done? Unless I am mistaken, the deadline is still not shortened today. What timeline does the RIZIV follow? When will that element of the Pact be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u87	Mrs Van Camp, pending the real day 180+1 procedure, which reduces the time between taking a decision and its entry into force to one day, an accelerated procedure has already been introduced. With effect from 1 September 2016, all decisions on the application files for recoverable medicinal products that extend the patient's rights shall enter into force one month more quickly than through the standard procedure. These include new refundable medicinal products and additional refundable indications of already recoverable medicinal products. The accelerated entry into force also applies to procedures that have a favourable budgetary impact for the patient or government, provided that access for the patient remains at least as good as before. Through the standard procedure, the RIZIV bundles all decisions of the month X, for example January 2018, into a draft ministerial decision to amend the list of recoverable medicines. Following the administrative procedure and publication in the Belgian Official Journal, that decision shall enter into force on the first day of the month X+3. If the decision was taken in January 2018, it will therefore take effect on 1 April 2018. So that's the standard procedure. Through the accelerated procedure, the RIZIV bundles the decisions of the minister of the month X, for example January, which extend the rights of the patient, into a separate draft ministerial decision which will enter into force on the first day of the month X+2, in this case on 1 March. The ministerial decisions also appear in the Belgian Official Journal after the administrative procedure has been completed, but the entry into force and reimbursement already apply earlier. For practical technical reasons, the date of entry into force of the accelerated decision shall correspond to the day following the day on which the RIZIV reference file of all recoverable medicinal products is made available on the RIZIV website. However, the RIZIV provides for an unofficial communication by e-mail to its external users ten days before its entry into force. These are the insurance institutions, the charging institutions, APB, OPHACO, the hospitals and BCFI. As I said in the previous reply, the real day 180+1 procedure requires the use of a single authentic source of medicines. In the meantime, by the end of 2019, it was set as a date for a common and complete transition to those single authentic source medicines, called SAM 2.0, by all stakeholders involved in the drug process and/or playing a role in the reimbursement of medicines. It is the technicality of the one authentic source that is bothering us. That's not nice, especially for me. I have asked several times whether this can't be done faster, but it seems impossible because we also need to have the necessary ICT.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for that. I share your disappointment at the fact that things are coming so late, but it is, of course, a very nice measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u89	Madam Secretary, nursing training represents reform. The banabas would be tilted in the four-year training and the financing of the banabas would be discontinued. The sector reports that it is impossible to put the knowledge of the various nursing further training courses into the four-year programme. Specialised care remains necessary for various services such as oncology, geriatrics, urgency and intensive care. This is also recognised by the AUVB and the professional organisations. In the meantime, the colleges are trying to prepare for the 2021-22 academic year, when the banabas would no longer be financed. However, they do not know what awaits them, because the legislation still links the special professional titles to certain specialised acts, such as the Royal Decree of 21 March 2003, which provides that chemo may only be provided under the supervision of nurses with a licence, special professional title or BAT onco; or the Royal Decree of 27 March 1998, which provides that intensive care should always be provided by at least two nurses, one of which is urgent and in such a way as to comply with BAT. The recognition of services is linked to this. The Ministerial Decision of 19 April 2007 sets out the criteria for BATs, including 450 hours of theoretical training. The decision to include the banabas in part in the new four-year Bachelor's degree in Nursing was partly made to enable the internship component in this four-year programme to be completed 2 300 hours of internship training and thus to comply with the European standard. Within the VLHORA, it was suggested that it would be impossible for the further training courses to be fully tilted, but that the internship component and the bachelor's test could be removed from the further training courses, just because a larger component of the initial training is being carried out. It is almost impossible for students in the new generalist training to go through all the compulsory internships to make career opportunities possible in a specific discipline. It has to be demonstrated that the student has gone through all the domains. In addition, this measure makes it almost impossible to make a switch within the flat nurse's career from, for example, a surgical service to a specialized service of oncology, just because of the royal and ministerial decisions mentioned above. Madam Minister, can you clarify exactly how the colleges will have to complete the courses in order to comply with federal standards? In what sense will they change exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u90	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I am going to give you some answers, but I would like to point out that education is an exclusive competence of the Communities. There has been no change in the regulation of nursing since the transposition of the European directive. Through an interkabinets working group of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health, I have been informed that the Flemish banaba training courses for nurses will disappear in the future. However, it was indicated that these could be replaced by postgraduate training. From a French-speaking point of view, no changes were passed on to me. However, you will have to ask questions about this to the Minister responsible for Education. I have already said a few times that the concept of nurse specializations can be reformed for me. I want to provide two specializations. On the one hand, general specialisations, such as acute or chronic care, which can be obtained through additional credits in a postgraduate degree or through professional practice, can be built through contractual internships. Those specialized nurses should be able to carry out more specialized operations than the non-specialized nurses. On the other hand, I would also like to include the concept of advanced Nursing practice in the legislation. In order to develop these two types of specialisation, I have expressed my intentions. I also asked for advice from the Federal Council of Nursing. As soon as I have this opinion, I will examine whether these ideas are compatible and whether the federal legislation can be adapted accordingly. It goes without saying that I will propose such amendments at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health so that the Communities can also give me their views and the educational programmes can be adapted in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u91	That's clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u92	Madam President, Minister, I am asking this question following an article in Het Laatste Nieuws of 17 November 2017, about medical devices such as wheelchairs or ankle braces, which would cost twice as much in this country as elsewhere. A recommendation would have been made by the KCE in 2007, and we have often expressed our reservations about this. In this context, I refer to our remarks on splints in hallucinogenic valgus. Then you replied that there was a full review of what is on the list of recovered medical devices and whether all this is still scientifically substantiated. On this basis, the list would be amended. That's why I liked a state of affairs. What changed the list and when? What is the total budget spent annually on medical devices? What is being paid back today? Do we see regional differences? What's wrong with the pricing? What are you doing to re-evaluate this as soon as possible? In this way, we lose millions a year which could be spent on the many medical needs in the field or on our care providers. This is unacceptable and I would like to say nothing about the costs that the patient has to bear. Why has nothing or insufficient happened since 2007, after the report of the CCE, so nothing has been resolved now, eleven years later?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u93	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the project to which you refer is very wide and covers a wide range of medical devices. Yeah, it's still running. The principles of price transparency and medical evidence must lead to a reworking of the refund and therefore deserve sufficient thoroughness. The operation of the price setting is also included in the project of price transparency. Total expenditure in the orthopedics and bandagistery sectors amounted to 218 million euros in 2015 and 224 million euros in 2016. Expenditure on mobility aids is included in the Sixth State Reform, which means that the RIZIV is no longer responsible for reimbursement but the Länder. I have here for you the following data on expenditure for 2015 and 2016, by Land, on mobility tools. The total amount for 2015 is 85 million, of which 59.5 million are for the Flemish Community. In 2016 it concerns 89 million, including 62.5 million for the Flemish Community. Since the presentation of the study of the KCE to the Association Committee on Bandagist-orthopedists Insurance Institutions on 31 January 2008, a number of actions have been undertaken by that committee. For example, the refunds for some flexible orthes or bandages were removed from the nomenclature. These deleted benefits apply to the flexible neck collar, the smooth ankle bandage, the slightly movement-limiting wrist brace and the elbow brace. This measure saved around a quarter of a million euros a year. A flexible knee strap is currently contained in a proposal for a global modification of the nomenclature for knee-orthesis, whereby not only that provision will be deleted, but indications and other modalities will be added to the nomenclature for that group of ortheses. For me, it should also be more and faster, but the fact that the competence for a large part of the mobility tools is at the Flemish level, among other things, perhaps allows us to work a little faster in this area. I will provide you with the respective amounts for the German, French and Flemish communities. Part of it also falls within the competence of the Joint Community Committee. Finally, there is another part in which the whereabouts of patients who have received such items are unknown.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic833x.u94	Madam Minister, since pricing became a state power, we will raise the issue at that level. Thank you for your answer.
