ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u1	Fatma Pehlivan: Minister, the living conditions and treatment of the Uighurs in the People's Republic of China have been sad for decades. The Chinese government treats this population as an undesirable entity that should be controlled and intimidated. Religious freedoms are being made more difficult and freedom of expression, already problematic throughout China, is even more limited for them than for others. Such policies have often led to protests by the Uighurs and, unfortunately, to radicalisation by a small minority, which has led to violence and attacks. The Chinese government uses draconian measures to excuse it simply wanting to maintain stability in the region. The scale of these measures has recently been revealed. At the end of August, the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination reported that more than a million Uighurs are obliged to participate in reeducation programmes in special camps and that hundreds of thousands of other Uighurs are locked up in anti-terror centres. The Chinese government denies these findings, which it considers insufficient evidence has been provided. The fact that the Chinese government makes it virtually impossible for journalists to enter the western province is, of course, not mentioned. Finally, Uighurs abroad are under pressure to spy on, return or remain silent. If they do not, their acquaintances and relatives are threatened. Social media and anonymous profiles are also used to intimidate people in Belgium. Minister, given the scale and impact of Chinese politics on the Uighur community, this issue is now also a topical issue at UN level. What is Belgium's position on this matter? Mr Jambon, Minister for the Interior, has already asked those affected in Belgium to go to the police. Will you, as Foreign Minister, address the Chinese authorities about this? This is now very topical, as you have very close links with the Chinese government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u2	Mr President, I also had a question from Mr Blanchart on this subject. That is why I began by saying that I shared this concern about the situation of the Uighurs. I can assure you that we are following this issue very closely because Belgium attaches great importance to freedom of religion and cultural diversity, which are values that it defends in its international policy, both bilaterally and multilaterally. For example, the EU regularly refers to the situation of ethnic and religious minorities in China. During the September session of the UN Human Rights Council, the EU specifically expressed its concern about the political re-education camps in Xinjiang under the fourth item on the agenda. In addition, an annual institutionalised human rights dialogue with China is also taking place at EU level, addressing and discussing human rights concerns. Our country is actively involved in these different processes. Our embassy in Beijing continues to maintain contacts with the Chinese authorities to discuss all possible situations of different minorities in China. In this way, we ask for more attention to be paid to specific situations, including those of the Uighurs, as you mentioned in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The Chinese authorities initially claimed that the communications were false. Subsequently, the Chinese authorities stated that the re-education camps were necessary for security reasons, as I indicated earlier when discussing the draft law. The most recent explanation is that the re-education camps give more colour to the lives of the interned, by showing them the wonders of Chinese society. In short, the Chinese authorities always give it a twist. That worries us, because we increasingly see that human rights are being violated on a large scale in the name of security or fear, while sovereignty is being used as a shield to shield any form of criticism. Globally, multilateralism is coming under increasing pressure. Not only the Chinese authorities, but more and more regimes or governments, even with democratically elected people, such as President Trump and the Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán in Europe, so we are also getting a lot closer to getting rid of this problem if we want to get rid of any form of internationalism and humanism. In our present time, it is all the more important that, with you as Minister, we in Belgium clearly oppose such practices. It is somewhat symbolic, but it explains why we have just abstained in the vote on the extradition treaty, where we still have reservations, because it will take too little account of the way in which the Chinese state is using justice to implement its policy. However, despite our abstention from the vote on the extradition treaty earlier, I trust that you will follow closely the problems of minorities in general, and the Uighurs in particular. If in practice, for one reason or another, I cannot predict the future, if an extradition of a member of a minority group is ever requested, we will have to pay particular attention for this reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u4	Minister, I come back to you in relation to a situation that occurred a few weeks ago. If you remember, several young Belgians had chosen to go to Israel to discover several local cultural places and take a relaxing trip after their exams. Unfortunately, when they arrived on the spot, after more than seven hours of interrogation without receiving any information, they were confiscated their passport before being finally expelled and forced to return to Belgium, where they were also escorted by the police upon arrival. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. First of all, have your services had contact with the Israeli authorities in order to clarify this refoulement which seems a priori difficult to explain? Have you had any contact with the conditions under which these young people were kept for several hours before being repressed? How was it that these young people were welcomed and escorted by the Belgian police once they arrived in Belgium? I had the opportunity to meet these young people. I think that, beyond their experience in Israel, they were marked by the experience they had when they arrived on Belgian territory. Finally, I would like to know what follow-up you have given or you intend to give to such a refoulement which would ultimately not be the first. I think these young people are waiting for a political sign from us, and I would like to know if any contacts have been made with these young people. If so, what kind of contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u5	Madam President, Minister, I also refer to the events outlined by Mrs Grovonius. On what basis has Israel decided to arrest, interrogate and expel young people who have most probably never set foot on Israel's territory? I really want to know the precise reasons for this. I hope there have been contacts with the Israeli authorities. So again, can you tell me on the basis of what arguments Israel has decided not to allow these Belgians of Moroccan origin to enter Israeli territory? Unfortunately, this is a practice that is more common. The Israeli authorities go very far in this respect. Once upon my arrival in Israel I was taken separately and questioned for a long time. I still regard Israel as a democracy, but the Israeli authorities asked me what they had no right to do. For example, they wanted to know who I would be in contact with. They let me in, but I know people, well-known experts on the subject, who were denied access to Israeli territory because they refused to answer such questions. I've heard something that bothers me, but I'm asking for confirmation. It is reported that the Belgian embassy would not traditionally intervene on the spot in reporting such a situation, i.e. of Belgians being held back at the airport. Is that right? If so, why is no assistance provided? Why is there no dialogue between our embassy and the security services in Israel in order to prevent such situations? I'll give everyone who takes the plane to Israel the council to watch out for the following. Before you will see officials who have lists of colors on them. People who are not reassured are already being examined in Brussels and their luggage is being searched completely. But if Israel acts for security reasons, then I do not understand why people are allowed to make the journey first, then hold them at Tel Aviv airport for a number of hours, submit to humiliating interrogations and then send them back. Minister, how many Belgians have suffered this fate in 2018? Are you prepared to discuss this with your Israeli counterpart and come to an agreement? One of the agreements could be that people should be saved if they were not allowed to enter the country by the Israeli authorities. Then Israel will have to let those involved know sooner. This will save everyone, primarily concerned but also our own officials, a lot of money and a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u6	Deputy Prime Minister, as my colleagues have said, young people from the ASBL "Good or Good" were arrested at Ben Gurion Airport. They were confiscated from their passports, confined to a premises, subjected to searches, conditions of detention and degrading interrogations, and were finally sent back to Brussels on the first plane at their expense. In total, eight young people between 19 and 29 years of age and of Moroccan origin were expelled. The group's Belgo-Belges passed the security post safely. This is particularly challenging. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have you contacted your Israeli counterparts to inquire about the fate of these young people? What is the version of the facts of the Israeli authorities? What are the security reasons for this refoulement? Have you formally protested for the unworthy fate that has been reserved for our compatriots? How? Have similar cases of Belgian nationals returned to Ben Gurion airport on the basis of religious or ethnic criteria already been identified by the SPF Foreign Affairs? If so, how many were in 2015, 2016 and 2017? In view of the significant economic losses that these discriminatory and untimely refoulements represent on the part of the Israeli authorities for the affected people, are you considering further strengthening the "advices for travellers" on the FPS Foreign Affairs website? I've read them and it's already mentioned. Does Belgium intend to consult with the other countries of the European Union in order to provide a firm and common response to the Israeli government to counter these discriminatory refoulements?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u7	Mr Hellings, thank you first of all for allowing me to come back with you to the difficult experience of eight young Belgians at the Ben Gurion airport in Tel Aviv on 10 and 11 September. This case has been widely publicised and some of the elements mentioned deserve to be clarified or placed in context, both on the principles and on the specific situation of the young Belgians concerned. On the principle of access to territory and refoulement, it should be recalled that Israel, like Belgium or any State, in accordance with international law, is sovereign in determining the criteria for entry into its territory. A valid passport and, where appropriate, a visa are not a guarantee of access to a national territory of a State. Moreover, under international law, that State is in no way obliged to justify its general or specific motives for a particular person. Nor is the State obliged to inform the third State concerned of the refoulement of its nationals. This allows you to explain why we have only a very limited view of the number of refoulements of Belgian citizens and that, a fortiori, we are not informed of the reasons for them. In 2016, my services were informed of two cases, and four cases in 2017. We do not have comprehensive statistics on the expulsion of compatriots at the Israeli border. Our embassy in Tel Aviv has contacted the competent Israeli authority, but has not yet received an answer. With regard to the refoulement of the eight young Belgians between 10 and 11 September, the young people intended to visit Israel as well as the Palestinian territory. It is not for me to mention here the objectives of their journey, but we know, in this context, that the risk of refoulement exists, and at least the risk of being subjected to thorough interrogations. We also know that people of Arab origin with Arabic-consonant names are also targeted, which allows you to evoke discriminatory refoulement – we are well aware of that. This is why the FPS Foreign Affairs issued a particularly explicit notice to travellers on this issue. I quote: "Travellers must be aware that the Israeli authorities, upon arrival at Ben Gurion Airport and at land borders, are likely to deny access to the territory to persons suspected of wanting to travel to the West Bank or Gaza for political purposes – even as co-ops – or whom they consider to be activists or supporters of the Palestinian cause. We have regularly received reports of unpleasant treatment of European travellers travelling to Palestinian territory at Israel's borders or at the Allenby crossing point. People of Arab origin or with Arabic-consonant names are at risk of the same treatment." I would point out that, in terms of warning, it is difficult to be clearer with regard to travellers, even if I regret this situation. Like all our travel advisories, the opinion on Israel is regularly re-evaluated. In order to understand the reaction of the Belgian embassy, you must understand that we have only limited resources to intervene. The Belgian embassy was contacted on 10 September by a fellow countryman requesting diplomatic assistance from Belgium to help Belgian nationals, in particular a group of young travellers, enter Israel. Like any Belgian or non-Belgian diplomatic or consular post, the Belgian embassy in Tel Aviv has no authority or authority to force the Israeli authorities to grant Belgian nationals access to Israeli territory. Our diplomatic post has tried to explain what consular assistance was possible, but the interlocutor did not consider this assistance necessary. After this, the embassy invited those involved to contact us if new developments were to occur, which did not happen. We have been informed of the further developments in the press. At the request of the group of young people and their accompanist, a meeting was held at the SPF Foreign Affairs on 21 September to better understand the circumstances surrounding the refoulement of these eight young Belgians and to listen to their testimonies. A report from this meeting was sent to me and I was struck by the stories of these young people and the difficult experience they experienced on September 10 and 11. I therefore decided to initiate a discussion on the subject of refoulement between European embassies in Tel Aviv in order to better measure the extent of this problem and to consider with these same European partners a joint, general approach to the Israeli immigration services. As regards police accompaniment upon return to Belgium, this is the classic rule on the side of the Ministry of the Interior when refoulement takes place. But if you have any specific questions about how things have happened, I have no information on this. You can always ask my colleague the Minister of the Interior about this. There you go. However, I would like to point out that we are trying to inform as precisely as possible, even about situations that disturb us, but obviously asking that travellers take this into account. I understand the drawbacks that may occur when arriving at the land border or at Ben Gurion Airport, but the information is very clearly given by the department on the risks involved. And I repeat: I know that we can regularly ask – we also do so with other countries around the world – the reasons for refoulement, but States have no obligation to communicate any motivation in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u8	I can hear you. The opinion is indeed explicit. It may be thought that this opinion should, in all likelihood, suffice. Fortunately, I think that what has always motivated our actions at European level is precisely freedom of movement. We are faced with a State which, once again, can allow itself, on a continuous basis – even if it respects international law in this field, I understand – to discriminate against a number of people simply on the basis of their name, their appearance, their nationality. We have relations with that country, and these relations are even preferential in a range of sectors. But we never manage to have a form of dialogue with him that makes the situation change in the right direction. We have already said this and I will have the opportunity to repeat it in the questions that will come later. Dialogue does not work and threats do not work. There were a few of them, though. Our government has, however, had somewhat stronger reactions, but all this is not working. From that point on, we must be able to consider the very nature of our relations, and consider possible sanctions that we could impose on them in order to change the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u9	You are right, Minister, that the decision to enter the territory is a sovereign decision of a State. This is determined by international law. Yet there is still such a thing between friendly nations as dealing with each other correctly. It is a good thing that you say that our embassy, together with other European countries, will take a demarche to the Department of Foreign Affairs in Tel Aviv. It might be good to remind Israel, at this meeting, that the European Union is giving it preferential treatment, which I do not always agree with. Israel is admitted to numerous European programmes. It would be good to make the correct attitude of the Israeli authorities towards the European citizens who wish to visit Israel and even Palestine dependent on the continued existence of this cooperation. I also hope that it can be a common European position to make it clear to the Israeli authorities that there can be no further deepening of such cooperation if European citizens are treated in such an unacceptable way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u10	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Israel is indeed sovereign and, as is the case in Belgium and any other country, a person can be expelled without justification, even if he or she is in possession of a visa and passport. However, Israel's attitude, namely to discriminate against a person on the basis of his or her appearance, origin and possibly religion, is not merely an unpleasant treatment as specified in the travel notice of the FPS Foreign Affairs website, but discriminatory, vexatious and unjustified treatment. I think that, if you had to change the travel notice, I suggest these terms, which are more appropriate to the experience and reality of these young people and those other people you mentioned, namely the two cases of 2016 and the four cases of 2017. This is a shameful attitude that deserves at least one manifestation of your anger in your bilateral relations. In conclusion, it is striking that it is easier for Israel to return our Belgian nationals than for Belgium and the European Union to ban the importation of products manufactured in Israeli settlements in Palestine into our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u11	Minister, in Metro of 11 September I heard that you wanted to put climate issues on the agenda of the UN Security Council. After a meeting with your South African colleague, you stated that you want to approach climate change, especially in Africa, from a security perspective. You are also right in this respect from the FAO. In the recent publication "The state of food security and nutrition in the world," the organisation gave a warning signal about the potentially destructive interaction between climate, access to food and conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u12	However, I noticed in that article that you said that we must first end conflicts in Africa before climate change comes on the agenda. I would like to make it clear that these two are more closely linked and will continue to be connected in the future. We forget it, but the Syrian conflict started years ago following protests against rising food prices resulting from a series of crop losses caused by exceptional droughts. With the current situation in Syria, we forget what caused the war to break out there. Of course, this link in Syria between the exceptional drought and the current conflict has also been influenced by political choices of the Syrian regime, but if there were similar conflicts in other countries due to drought, the government could also react negatively. It could have been different, but the climate has proven to be an important factor in certain conflicts, a factor that can also play the same role in other countries which have become more vulnerable to extreme weather conditions. I am thinking in particular of countries in the Sahel or more tropical countries, where an increase in tropical storms could be equally destructive. I come to my questions. Why can the issue of climate change be put on the UN Security Council's agenda after 2020, after, as you described it, the arms silence in Africa has been achieved? By the way, who says this will happen in 2020? The current US government has repeatedly expressed its opposition to the issue of climate change. What will be the Belgian response to such views from the United States and possibly other countries? If you and your South African colleague succeed, will you also raise the increasingly serious risks that local conservationists and environmentalists face?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u13	Mrs Pehlivan, South Africa is an important player on the African continent and will be on the UN Security Council for the next two years like Belgium. It is therefore crucial to develop good cooperation with South Africa. Several tracks lend themselves to that. Firstly, there is the overall vision and strategy of the African Union "To end all wars in Africa by 2020," of which South Africa is and remains a leading advocate. It goes without saying that Belgium supports the ambition of that strategy. We will do the same in the context of our membership of the UN Security Council. At the same time and not afterwards, I would also like to work to improve and strengthen a number of new security challenges on the UN Security Council's agenda, including the coherence between climate and security. In recent years important steps have been taken in this matter, but we cannot deny that the attitude of some permanent members of the UN Security Council remains unconstructive. It will therefore be necessary to involve as many partners as possible in order not only to keep the momentum going but also to accelerate it. I regard South Africa as a crucial partner in this. In recent years, I have paid particular attention to the relationship between security and climate. During the campaign for the UN Security Council, Belgium listened in particular to the concerns of the most vulnerable countries in this area. We have also explicitly supported previous initiatives by Germany and Sweden. Belgium organised an event in New York in April this year on the link between climate and security, with a strong involvement of the most vulnerable countries. I would also like to mention the conclusions on climate diplomacy adopted by the European Foreign Ministers in February of this year. Belgium was at the basis of a paragraph which specifically asks for the nexus climate and security to be re-current within the work of the UN Security Council. Very recently, on 26 September, I took part in a meeting of the Group of Friends on Climate and Security in New York in the framework of the ministerial week of the General Assembly. The initiative initiated by Germany and Nauru has the explicit aim of making the climate more prominent within the UN Security Council. I can therefore reassure you, it is my intention, during our membership of the Security Council, to deal with this problem in cooperation with other countries. I want the debate to start a new phase. Climate change is now widely recognised as a threat multiplier. It is time to move on to a more operational discussion. Concrete slopes need to be identified to include climate-related risk analysis in Security Council risk analysis. We must also find ways to improve the flow of know-how from many international institutions active in this field to the Security Council. We will therefore seek possible cooperation with the permanent members but also with the non-permanent members. Next year, five European Member States will be members of the UN Security Council, which is a third of the Security Council. That could be an opportunity to put further pressure on the other partners. Protecting and promoting human rights is one of the most important cross-cutting priorities in Belgian foreign policy. This is essential for the dignity of every individual and to maintain a peaceful society. I share your concern about the trend towards more and more restricting the space for civil society actors, including human rights defenders and environmental protection activists. According to the recent Global Witness report, 2017 was the most deadly year for environmental activists since 2002. I will not fail to pay due attention to this issue and ask my colleagues to do the same through appropriate channels such as the Human Rights Council or the Environmental Rights Initiative set up by UNEP and UNHRC. It has been a traditional position for several years that we should do so in the various international fora. You know that we are also in favour of taking the same path with the European Union. More and more, it will be possible to say something to many other countries in the world, not only about the environment, but also about human rights, for example, but not without real attention to the situation within the European Union. For this reason, and without limiting the Commission's initiatives towards Poland and possibly Hungary, I am asking for a genuine peer review on human rights and the rule of law within the European Union, without any discrimination between the 28 European countries. We must go in the same direction in the two areas. Greater attention should be paid to such issues at international level, even outside the European Union, but more attention should also be paid to them within the European Union. I hope that it will be possible to make progress in this area before the next European elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which I fully agree with. We must continue to pay attention to this. According to some studies, one and a half degrees of global warming can safeguard the future of our children and grandchildren, but at two degrees it becomes dramatic. Those studies are important. The scientists expose the problems, such as the conservationists. We must protect them from the dangers that threaten them, as you point out, because we need them to wake up the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u15	Mr President, the minister has already responded in part to the previous question. Here we are faced with Belgian lawyers who wanted to go to American territory and who were allegedly denied access. In Brussels alone, they would be at least five criminal lawyers in the case. Minister, have your services been in contact with the US authorities to clarify these visa refusals, which seem a priori difficult to explain? What follow-up have you given or intend to give to such visa refusals that would not otherwise be the first to target Belgian lawyers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, my services have indeed had contacts with the United States Embassy in Brussels on this issue. She indicated that these were not visa refusals, but files that the competent authorities in Washington considered to be not automatically applicable to the Visa Waiver Program, which exempts visas by completing the ESTA form. This implies that an application for a visa must be submitted to the Embassy. According to consular services, no visas have so far been refused to persons in this case. Some applications are still under review.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u17	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Luykx's 26965 and 27080 were converted into written questions. Mr Blanchart apologizes for his questions. 27110 and 27117.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u18	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President Kabila has surprisingly not put himself up for the presidential election. This is positive. Emmanuel Shadary, a member of President Kabila's party, has applied. Shadary's not an unspoken figure. He has been on the European sanction list since 2017 for having hundreds of opponents of Kabila locked up as Minister of Security and Home Affairs, having protests knocked down with dozens of deaths as a result, and also violent intervention in regional conflicts such as in the Kasaï. Faithful elections are becoming crucial. The opposition must, of course, be given the opportunity to campaign on a level playing field. However, there are serious pitfalls that justify any skepticism. Firstly, a number of applications were rejected, I am thinking of Bemba among other things. Another opposition figure, Moïse Katumbi, was held back on a questionable basis at the border due to passport problems and court cases. Secondly, the independence of the CENI is still being questioned because the UDPS has still not been authorised to designate a representative in the CENI. Finally, various problems were noted in the registration of voters. There are incomplete data, double-counted voters, voters with no fingerprints and so on. The auditor of the OIF electoral lists already advocated a citizen audit in which the electoral lists would be made public. In an initial response, you noted the recent developments in Congo and called for the organisation of credible and inclusive elections. What does this mean for you, Minister? First of all, how do you respond to Shadary's candidacy? Secondly, how do you estimate the likelihood of credible and inclusive elections with a level playing field for majority and opposition? Finally, what are the red lines on credible elections? To what extent will Belgium, together with the European Union, support an electoral process in which measures for credible elections are not taken, starting with a credible audit of the electoral lists, a democratic area with the admission of demonstrations, the release of political prisoners and so on. What consequences will be given to the failure to take these measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u19	Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, my question is dated October 2, 2018. On 25 September 2018, at the UN rostrum in the framework of its last General Assembly, Congolese President Joseph Kabila strongly called for the departure of MONUSCO from the Congo. Joseph Kabila reiterated his commitment to the values defended by the United Nations, while denouncing the interference of some States. Minister for Foreign Affairs, President Kabila denounces the presence of MONUSCO in the Congo for twenty years, taking a more than mixed record in terms of results. What is Belgium's position on the possible departure of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u20	Mr President, Minister, several leaders of the Congolese opposition have asked the fifteen members of the United Nations Security Council to visit Kinshasa to "not give in to blackmail to the sovereignty of the government without the legitimacy of Joseph Kabila". These opponents also call on the United Nations to "renew the mandate" of their mission, MONUSCO, in a memorandum. In addition, I learned from the press that, on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly, the Prime Minister would have met at length with the Congolese President. They would have agreed to implement diplomatic de-escalation between our two countries. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. How does our country monitor the pre-election situation in the DRC and the positions taken in this context by our diplomacy within the European Union and the UN? At the level of your department, have any instructions been given following the meeting between the Prime Minister and the Congolese President? Finally, I agree with my colleague Flahaux's question about MONUSCO. What is Belgium's position in this context and, in particular, regarding the possible support of MONUSCO in the logistics of the forthcoming elections? Could Belgian Defence also be called upon to play a role in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions on developments in the Democratic Republic of Congo. First, I will answer the questions about the political situation and bilateral relations, then I will talk about the role of MONUSCO. With regard to the political situation and bilateral relations, during the ministerial week in New York, I had contact with my colleague, She Okitundu. In turn, the Prime Minister has spoken with President Kabila. The message of the Congolese is clear: they wish to organise the elections alone, without the assistance of the international community, and they believe that preparations are evolving well, in a way that allows the elections to be organised as foreseen on 23 December 2018. In his speech to the General Assembly, President Kabila said that the electoral process is irreversible and that he wants peaceful and credible elections. I have no comment to make on the candidacy of the former Minister of the Interior, Emmanuel Ramazani Shadary, who is one of the 26 candidates. Our country doesn't have a favorite candidate. We keep the channels of communication open with all the political forces in the country. On the question of the red line of the electoral process, I can tell you that our country has called for an overall assessment of the parameters to be found in the EU Council Conclusions of December 2017 and the UN Security Council Resolutions. The fact that the current President will not be a candidate is a positive step, but many measures are still needed to talk about a credible process. On a technical level, this has already been evaluated, with comments from La Francophonie on the electoral register and from the Westminster Foundation on voting machines. Like the region, our country continues to insist on an open and inclusive electoral process. At a meeting in Kampala on 8 October of the countries of the region which signed the framework agreement, the countries concerned stated explicitly that the lack of inclusiveness could be a cause of instability in the region. This means not only that all Congolese people must be able to participate, but also that there can be a democratic debate. As far as the latter is concerned, the image is mixed. In Kinshasa, a meeting of the opposition was allowed a few weeks ago, while on Saturday 13 October a manifestation in Lubumbashi was broken up by an intervention of the order services, despite an earlier admission by the municipality. It is this message of inclusiveness and openness that we are conveying to our partners, both within the United Nations and within the European Union. With regard to bilateral relations, there is a clear willingness to maintain dialogue. I can confirm that, following his meeting with President Kabila, the Prime Minister did not ask me to address specific instructions to our position. For MONUSCO, the renegotiation of its annual mandate will take place in March 2019. Until then, credible elections are obviously needed to address the root causes of the crises in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the violence that is so severe in that region. The Congolese Government and CENI (Independent National Electoral Commission) stated during a recent visit by the Security Council that they will not count on the logistical support of MONUSCO. It is to be hoped that this choice will not call into question the long-awaited holding of elections on 23 December, as some observers fear with regard to the risks associated with the voting machine or the electoral register. Security Council resolution 2409 makes the exit strategy conditional on two crucial principles: the holding of elections and lasting progress towards reducing the threat posed by armed groups. However, there is continuing insecurity in several parts of the country and an increasingly dangerous security environment in which MONUSCO must evolve. In early December 2017, the mission experienced one of the worst attacks in its history in the Beni region of North Kivu, during which fourteen peacekeepers lost their lives and fifty-three others were injured. On 9 October, MONUSCO again repelled an attack on one of its bases in the region, at the cost of several wounded in its ranks. As a member of the Security Council, Belgium will support a renewal of MONUSCO's mandate in 2019, while supporting United Nations-led reform efforts to improve the effectiveness of peacekeeping missions and the protection of civilians. I would like to add two points. First of all, in relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we have mainly witnessed decisions taken by the Congolese authorities themselves: suspension of military cooperation, closure of the Consulate General of Lubumbashi and the Consulate General in Antwerp, request for the suspension of Enabel's cooperation following the reorientation by Minister De Croo of a 25 million tranche and, finally, closure of the Schengen House. I must confess that most of these decisions are mainly detrimental to many Congolese citizens, as we have consistently recalled. That is why we are fully prepared to see positive developments in these areas. With regard to our country's only decision on development cooperation, I would like to refer you to my colleague in charge of this matter. Finally, just over two months before the elections, it is too early to comment on the transparency and inclusiveness of the electoral process. We will return to this subject, both bilaterally and within the framework of the European Union and the United Nations. As the elections will take place one week before we join the Security Council, we may have to take an attitude in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There are, however, a number of elements that concern me. You say you're not responding to Shadary and the fact that he's running. However, he is on the European penalty list. Then how does the board respond to Shadary's candidacy? After all, it was a joint decision to put him on that list. I am surprised that there was no response to that. You say they'll only organise the election. Does this mean that they are not asking for financial resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u23	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u24	How do they get the means to organise the elections, because they cost hundreds of millions? There are also objections about voting machines coming from South Korea. They'd be hard to handle. This raises questions about inclusiveness and the fact that everyone can make use of it. Then there is the democratic space and manifestations that are being broken up. This must be followed with argus eyes, as you say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is clear that every time we intervene on the Congo, it is never simple. First, in view of the situation on the spot and then, when we know the traditional policy of this country, it is just the opposite of the Belgian currency: over there, it is "divide to rule"! For the moment, it is clear that President Kabila is doing well to "regulate in this division", including with regard to his interlocutors in each of the countries, or within the European Union, where he blows the warm and cold, depending on the countries. MONUSCO is useful and I agree with you in your proposal for a renewal. But at the same time, it is not without fault – like any human activity. We know to what extent, particularly in Kasai, it has sometimes had somewhat specific behaviors – to say no more – and we also know how much, by its very composition, it has contributed to its body defending the development of Muslim fundamentalism in certain areas of the Congo. I prefer to avoid saying more so as not to throw oil on the fire in a process that is already so complicated and where we hope that in the end we will still see elections held in December.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for these points of answer. The civil society partners we have met recently are very concerned about the situation on the ground, and I have no doubt that you are. They are very worried for several reasons. As you mentioned, there is the electoral process as such: the question of the voters' register or the question of the voting machine. There are also security issues in some areas, which cause them to fear that the elections may not be held in optimal conditions or at all. There is a high demand very often for Belgium to continue to play a role vis-à-vis the DRC. It is a country that remains a partner, a country that is listened to about the situation on the ground. I am pleased to hear that we will support the renewal of MONUSCO. But to do what exactly, and in what context? That is the question that I do not yet have an answer to today. I hear the will is to be careful. I do not have the solution to this very critical and complex issue. But there is a strong demand from civil society for us to remain very attentive to what is happening on the ground and to continue to play an important role. I hope that Belgium will play this role.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u27	Mr President, France has just accused Iran of being the sponsor of the planned attack in Villepinte, foiled in extremis on 30 June 2018 in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre. It speaks of an act of extreme gravity that cannot remain unanswered and declares that it has proof of the Iranians' involvement. French diplomacy is certain that it was the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence that fomented the attack. Retaliation measures have been decided and implemented, including the freezing of assets in France of two Iranian nationals, including the diplomat who was extradited to our country, Assadollah Assadi. In Belgium, there were no statements, while the perpetrators of this attempted attack were arrested in Brussels, while an Iranian diplomat involved in this attempt will soon be handed over by Germany to the Belgian judicial authorities and a suspect has also been expelled from France to Belgium. Minister, do you share France's analysis of Tehran's responsibility? Are you also considering retaliatory measures against Tehran? What were the respective roles of the French and Belgian intelligence services in the arrest of terrorists? Can we imagine that European diplomacy will coordinate on this issue in order to provide a coherent response to this crisis? What impact will this crisis have on the Iranian nuclear agreement and, more generally, on the European Union's relations with Iran?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u28	Mr Dallemagne, the judicial authorities in Belgium have opened an investigation into the foiled attack on Villepinte and the perpetrators behind it. The Government takes note of the transfer to Belgium of the Iranian accused arrested in Germany on the basis of a European arrest warrant. Respecting the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, the Belgian authorities continue to give priority to the ongoing judicial procedure. As the investigation has not yet been completed, it seems important to me not yet to decide on the responsibility of each other. However, given the seriousness of the charge, the procedure for referring the case to the National Security Council has been initiated. The government will determine its position and possible action, but with knowledge of all the elements of the investigation. To identify the correct role of the various intelligence services, I refer you to the Minister of Justice, responsible for State Security. But I can tell you that cooperation between the competent departments of the various countries has gone very well. Belgium is, as always, in favour of cooperation between the various Member States of the European Union. This is certainly also true in this case involving several Member States of the Union. Moreover, as you know, the European Union plays a special role in the nuclear agreement, which is a major issue in the international community's relations with Iran. The line has always been for Belgium to continue talks with Iran as France does, despite the accusations against certain Iranian services to which you refer. And we still consider the nuclear agreement (the JCPoA) to be useful in preventing Iran from possessing a nuclear weapon. We want to continue this approach with Iran, but this dialogue must also raise other issues, such as Iran's regional policy, the ballistic missile programme and human rights, since sanctions are still being organized, in this regard, from the European Union, as at times at the departure of the United Nations. As far as the substance of the case of the foiled attack in Villepinte is concerned, we await all the elements of the ongoing investigation, transmitted to the National Security Council, in order to have an attitude of the government. I don't have these elements at my disposal right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u29	First of all, like you, I welcome the excellent cooperation between the Belgian and French security services and I would like to congratulate, in particular, the Belgian security services which have sometimes been in other cases linked to terrorism less effective, less relevant or less proactive. In this case, this was not the case. I'm glad. On the other hand, I note a very strong difference in tone between your reaction and that of your French colleagues. They did not hesitate to express a strong anger and above all to clearly accuse the Iranian government. I must admit that I do not understand the attitude of the Iranian Government, since we are doing everything in Europe to try to maintain a relationship and dialogue with them both on regional issues and on the nuclear agreement. It is totally unacceptable and unspeakable to try to commit an attack on European soil. We know the tensions that exist within the Iranian government and we wonder whether this is not an attempt to destabilise President Rohani. I would like to stress, as you have said, the very negative role that Iran plays in the region, particularly in Syria and Yemen, with regard to the question of human rights. I believe that Iran must pay attention to the fact that Europe will not accept behaviour both in terms of terrorism and destabilization of the region, which I find quite unacceptable. I hope that the Belgian Government will be clear and firm in this respect, because this attitude is totally unqualified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u30	Colleagues, Mr. As Van Hees is retained in another committee, the questions attached to point 14 of our agenda will be raised later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u31	Minister, Zeinab Sekaanvand, 24, a victim of rape, was executed on Tuesday, October 2 in Iran. Zeinab was sentenced to death in 2014 after being convicted of the murder of her husband she had married when she was only fifteen years old and who physically and verbally assaulted him. According to Amnesty, Zeinab Sekaanvand confessed to the murder under duress before retracting and designating her brother-in-law that she had also accused of having raped her on several occasions. She claims to have been tortured in detention by police officers. His withdrawals, however, were not taken into account in his trial. Its execution is a disgusting demonstration of the Iranian authorities' contempt for the principles of juvenile law, according to Amnesty. According to Amnesty, this was the fifth execution of a minor in Iran since the beginning of the year. Minister for Foreign Affairs, I know how sensitive you are to the defence of human rights. I believe that Belgium is a member of the Human Rights Committee until the end of this year, and you are fighting with all your strength against the death penalty in the world. However, in your discussions with the Iranian authorities, can you once again urge them to put in place a moratorium on executions and to commute all death sentences to life sentences? It is also known that Iran is one of the three countries in the world where the number of death sentences (often by hanging) is highest. It also seems to me essential to prohibit the application of the death penalty to persons under the age of 18 at the time of the crime. Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u32	Mr Flahaux, you know that I share your concern about the human rights situation in Iran, and in particular the fate of minors sentenced to death. Our embassy in Tehran and my services in Brussels are following the human rights situation in Iran very closely, and I have spoken publicly about the case of Zeinab Sekaanvand, notably via Twitter, expressing our opposition in principle against the death penalty, and especially against the application of the death penalty to minors. I will continue to defend this position in all my contacts with the Iranian authorities, and I will also ensure that these concerns are consistently highlighted in our diplomatic network's contacts with Iranian counterparts. The death penalty and the execution of acts committed before the age of 18 are contrary to Iran's international obligations under the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. As you know, Belgium opposes the death penalty in all circumstances and in all cases, without exception, and aspires to its abolition throughout the world. The fight against the death penalty in the world, including Iran, is a priority in our country's human rights policy. It is with this in mind that we will be hosting, as I recalled earlier, the Seventh World Congress against the Death Penalty, which will be held in Brussels at the end of February 2019. I have also extended an invitation to a number of countries still using the death penalty so that they can be discussed with countries other than those sharing the same view on abolition. It is useful to re-open discussions with countries that sometimes practice this crucial sentence in a very broad way, although, in our contacts, we are very often told that there are a number of measures to limit the number of executions. I hope that will be true in the years to come. I repeat that we intervene systematically when cases like the one you refer to arise. This is an opportunity to act on this. We will try to continue this work with a view to abolishing the death penalty or at least, with a view to reducing the number of cases of execution and the circumstances or persons concerned. The ultimate objective of course remains abolition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u33	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I know that you are particularly attentive to the human rights issue. I share your feeling that even if it is sometimes difficult, it is better to speak with the countries in question than to raise a wall. In this case, they will necessarily have even less tendency to change direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u34	Deputy Prime Minister, the city of Palu, on the island of the Celebes, Indonesia, was ravaged by an earthquake followed by a tsunami on 28 September. The first reports show at least 800 deaths, albeit provisional – my question is dated 2 October – since victims have been discovered daily since the tragedy. In addition to the magnitude of the balance sheet, the lives of survivors are made difficult by debris of all kinds, rubble, etc. The population is obliged to wear a scarf on the face to protect itself from the smell of nausea such as a mixture of ocean hints and rot, which heat and humidity amplify. Tensions are heightened due to lack of water, food, electricity and gasoline. The Indonesian authorities, through Foreign Secretary Pratikno, called for assistance on Monday, 1 October, calling for emergency humanitarian assistance for a population of at least 190,000 people, including no fewer than 45,000 children and 15,000 elderly people. Minister, what was Belgium's response to Indonesia's request for humanitarian aid following this tragedy? Do you have any information that Belgian nationals are among the victims? Did you have the opportunity to meet with someone from Indonesia at today's meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u35	Minister, the Belgian B-FAST response team did not eventually participate in the emergency aid operations in Indonesia following the earthquake and tsunami that struck the Indonesian archipelago of the Celebs and killed more than 1,500 people. Local technical conditions are advanced as the reason for this non-intervention decision. However, our country initially proposed the dispatch of two water purification units, accompanied by 23 experts or essential equipment. Can you give me more information on the reasons that led to your decision as the supervisory authority on B-Fast? If such a mission had been organized, what departments would have been involved? Has any other assistance been offered in place of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, on 2 October Belgium proposed emergency aid to Indonesia via B-FAST. After an assessment of the available capacities, it was indeed the sending of two water purification units accompanied by 23 experts or the sending of essential materials that were proposed. The local technical conditions and the organisational requirements resulting from them have unfortunately not been able to carry out the proposed actions. In fact, following the formal response of the Indonesian authorities to the offer made by Belgium, the Coordinating Council, which agreed on 5 and 12 October, decided not to deploy B-FAST in the disaster zone, after consultation with all the departments concerned. These departments ensure that, whenever aid is sent, it is sent to the place in good conditions and is actually used. This type of guarantee clearly did not exist in the eyes of the members of the coordinating board. However, Belgium continues to show solidarity with the population affected by this situation. Flexible emergency aid funds from international humanitarian organisations, to which Belgium contributes annually, can be used to meet the needs of victims. With regard to the latter, I would obviously refer you to my colleague in charge of development cooperation and humanitarian aid, who can give you more details on how we intervene through these emergency aid funds. As far as the situation of our compatriots is concerned, the earthquake on the island of the Celebes followed by a tsunami did not, to our knowledge, cause a Belgian victim. This does not, of course, prevent us, unfortunately, from seeing the number of victims on the spot increase over the days. A very long process of reconstruction and redevelopment of the affected areas is likely to be required. We obviously had the opportunity to talk about this tragedy with our Indonesian colleagues. In particular, I saw my colleague at the General Assemblies of the United Nations at the very moment when the situation was beginning to become known. We didn't have an idea at that time of the extent of what was going to happen. I have, of course, confirmed that we are going to help Indonesia, and in particular the disaster zone and its victims, which unfortunately must be deplored, but especially the survivors. We could either do so directly, which was not possible, or through our participation in international funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u37	Minister, thank you for your reply, which I think is very complete. It is true that consideration must also be given, in the future, to the following. Speed is, of course, one of the key factors in this kind of situation. The Western Powers would need to spread out some of the tasks in the region. Australia, New Zealand or Japan are known to be present. These countries could be on the front line, if I may say so. On the other hand, when it happens in Africa, it would be more up to us to intervene and the United States or Canada to Latin America. And I think it's the right way to work, because speed is essential to save as many lives as possible. And then, of course, within the framework of reconstruction, everyone can carry out projects in coordination; at European level, as far as we are concerned. But I am in any case fully satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u38	The agenda items 18 and 19 contain mixed questions from Mr Van Hees and myself. I suggest we wait for his return. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Henry has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u39	Minister, I would like to ask you about the results of the first round of the presidential election in Brazil. The far-right candidate, Mr Bolsonaro, won after a lively campaign with more than 46% of the vote. The Labour Party candidate, Fernando Haddad, came second with 29.3% of the vote. A second round will be held on 28 October to split the two candidates. The results of this second round are still uncertain, to say the least. Mr Minister, what will be the attitude taken by Belgium in the event of the victory of the far-right party in the second round of the presidential election, both bilaterally and Europeanly and multilaterally?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u40	Mr President, Mr Corthouts, as you know, Belgium respects the rule of law and tries to avoid interfering in the internal affairs of other States, and in this case the Federative Republic of Brazil, especially since the electoral process is still under way. It is therefore not my intention to comment on this process for the time being. We will have the opportunity to return to this situation at the end of the electoral process, when the second round has taken place and the formal outcome of this election will be known. On the other hand, I was able to discuss this issue with colleagues in the region, including my Chilean colleague, whom I received a few days ago in Brussels. Of course, we look carefully at the political orientations, whether they are on the far right or on the far left and whether they are on the international level or at the local level. I sometimes have some apprehensions, but I wait for the outcome of the elections and, sometimes, the real possibility for these candidates to arrive in executive positions, before deciding. This applies, I repeat, to the extreme left or the extreme right, at the local level in Belgium or at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u41	Minister, I will certainly come back to the issue after October 28, 2018, if the one already known by the press as the "Brazilian Trump", Mr Bolsonaro, is elected President of Brazil.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u42	Minister, the village of Khan al-Ahmar is located near Jerusalem and is considered a "strategic" position in the region, where Palestinian populations often live in extremely difficult conditions. On 5 September, the Israeli High Court of Justice authorized the destruction of this Bedouin village. Its inhabitants had then been given a time to destroy their own homes. From now on, Israeli bulldozers can intervene at any time. As we know, only the urgent and effective resumption of negotiations with a view to achieving a two-State solution based on coexistence – with the State of Israel and an independent, democratic, one-sided and viable State of Palestine, co-existing in peace and security – can be a long-term response. Unfortunately, this situation illustrates once again the impasse in the peace process that we are calling for. Minister, what is the position of Belgian diplomacy regarding the announcement of these new destructions? Have bilateral contacts with the Israeli authorities been made in this regard? Will these destructions be addressed at a possible Council of the European Union? Will Belgium take advantage of its future non-permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council in order to revive the peace process and put an end to such dramatic humanitarian, security and political situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u43	Mrs Grovonius, as you know, Belgian diplomacy is very active on this issue. Together with my colleague in charge of development cooperation, we have taken a position on several occasions on the village of Khan al-Ahmar and I have publicly called on the Israeli authorities not to carry out the demolition of this community. So far, we have not received a concrete response from the Israeli authorities. The demolition of infrastructure and housing in the West Bank, the occupied Palestinian territory, is contrary to international humanitarian law and, in particular, to the Fourth Geneva Convention in that it results in forced evacuations and transfers of population. These demolitions are also contrary to United Nations Security Council resolutions. In addition, the village of Khan al-Ahmar is located in an area particularly sensitive to the outskirts of Jerusalem. The expansion of the surrounding settlements, by cutting the West Bank in half and completely insulating Jerusalem from its Palestinian hinterland, would threaten the very possibility of creating a viable and one-tenant Palestinian State in the future. As you know, Belgium continues to support the two-State solution with Jerusalem as its capital in order to achieve a just and lasting peace. We are defending this position in the various bodies of the Council of the European Union, where we are also trying to forge a European consensus as much as possible. We are also defending this position at the United Nations level. On 20 September, we intervened on the village of Khan al-Ahmar with seven other European countries, on the sidelines of the monthly briefing given to the Security Council by Nickolay Mladenov, United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process. During our mandate in the Security Council, we will of course continue along this path by supporting Mr. Mladenov's mandate and by trying to forge consensus around respect for international law. The process will therefore continue, in particular on this situation, which is of great concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u44	I thank the minister for these elements of the response. Of course, I encourage him to continue along this path and perhaps at some point consider the path of sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u45	Minister, the negotiations between Greece and Macedonia to change the name of that country to North Macedonia were fruitful. But the referendum failed and there is also opposition from a coalition partner in the Tsipras government. The agreement is therefore being called into question. Of course, this is a bad thing for NATO, which, in this way, sees enlargement to several Balkan countries coming to a halt. The security situation in the region will not improve. I have asked several questions about this. Prime Minister, what is the state of play on Macedonia's change of name? What options do Prime Minister Zaev have left? Secondly, how does the EU and NATO intercede between Greece and Macedonia to bring about the change of name? Thirdly, what short-term and long-term consequences for the security situation in the region, the EU and NATO do you expect if the name change is not implemented and Macedonia's membership of NATO remains so blocked?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u46	Ms Bellens, in the referendum of 30 September 2018, the majority of voters voted in favour of the agreement despite a low turnout. The government therefore decided to continue implementing the agreement. In the next ten days, Parliament will have to decide on a constitutional change to include the name North Macedonia in the constitution. Such a change requires a two-thirds majority, which is not insured for the time being. Prime Minister Zaev has already announced that, if the parliament does not give its consent, he will hold early parliamentary elections before the end of the year. We must now wait and see whether it will be possible to form a two-thirds majority in the next few days. The so-called Prespa Agreement was negotiated between the two parties with the mediation of Mr Nimetz, a personal envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. So the EU and NATO were not at the negotiating table. The conclusions of the NATO Summit in Brussels in July 2018 clearly show that the country's accession to NATO depends on the full implementation of the agreement with Greece. The non-implementation of the agreement would be very unfortunate because it offers an historic opportunity to end a 27-year dispute. Moreover, the agreement can have a positive impact on other bilateral disputes to be settled in the Western Balkans. A solution cannot therefore be seen only in the light of accession to NATO and the European Union. It would also be positive for bilateral relations with Greece and the region in general. We will continue to monitor developments in the dossier and I hope, of course, that the new name will be approved in both Macedonia and Greece. It is now awaiting a two-thirds majority in Macedonia. After that, the Greek Parliament must also give its approval. We will see if an agreement is reached, otherwise there may be new elections in Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u47	Minister, B-FAST has once again come into the picture as a result of the earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia. That made me ring a bell again and so I am standing here again with a number of questions. Where are we on the reform of B-FAST? When can the Chamber have the FIA report on B-FAST? What initiatives do you intend to take on B-FAST during this period of government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, progressive improvements are being made by B-FAST through the actions undertaken. These improvements concern both better positioning of the coordination committee and the communications of that committee. They also refer to the actions of the planning committee, including an improvement in response capacity through further centralisation of the material in one depot, in Peutie, which will shorten deployment time. The members of the Planning Committee are working on an action plan based on the 2018 audit. The report of the Federal Internal Audit Service (FIA) will be made available to the Chamber in December 2018. B-FAST shall establish an electronic platform to strengthen and accelerate the flow of information between the services concerned. This platform will make it possible to professionalise the working methods of B-FAST. In addition, on the basis of the audit recommendations and the resulting action plan, a new procedure and a new methodology will have to be established and adopted by the Coordination Committee. I propose that after the distribution of the FIA report, a hearing be organised with the various representatives of B-FAST and perhaps also with the Federal Internal Audit Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As you know, I will return to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u50	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian citizen Mustapha Awad, artist and co-founder of the Raj'een Dabkeh Group, human rights defender, metal worker and resident of the city of Alost, was arrested by Israel on the border between Palestine and Jordan on 19 July on his way to Palestine to visit members of his family. Since then, he has been imprisoned under very difficult conditions, according to the information we have received. A resolution denouncing some of these practices was adopted by our Assembly. According to the information, for more than two months of detention, Mustapha Awad was interrogated for continuous periods of 20 hours a day and was even denied the possibility of calling his family. Minister, what information do you have about the situation of Mustapha Awad? Is your department in contact with the Israeli authorities in this context? If so, what was the content of these contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u51	Minister Mustapha Awad, a Belgian citizen, was arrested on 19 July by the Israeli authorities. The operation took place at the Jordan-West Bank border crossing, the home of his parents. He wanted to visit his family for the first time, but he was immediately arrested at the border crossing, even before laying his foot on Israeli soil. He was imprisoned for three months in an Israeli prison pending trial. He was arrested on suspicion of belonging to a "terrorist organization", which Mustapha Awad firmly denies. His support committee claims that he was subjected to ill-treatment or even torture after his arrest. He was interrogated several times in the presence of an Israeli lawyer who would not, however, have full access to his file. On 9 October, 64 Belgian personalities called on you in a white card, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to ask you to intervene publicly with the Israeli government in favour of the release of Mr Awad. For Myriam De Ly of the Free Mustapha Committee, the Belgian authorities must intervene firmly in this matter. I quote: "This trial should not take place. It is not normal for Israel to kidnap a Belgian at the border, detain him, torture and judge on the basis of confessions obtained under torture. Belgium cannot accept this trial." Mustapha Awad has already received two visits from the Belgian consulate, but this aid is not commensurate with the injustice committed by the State of Israel against a Belgian citizen. Minister, I have only one question to ask you: what are you going to do about his release?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPF Foreign Affairs, the Belgian Embassy in Tel Aviv and I have been following Mr Mustapha Awad's case very closely since the day of his arrest in August. In recent days, new approaches have been made to the Israeli authorities by our embassy and to the Israeli embassy in Belgium. Contacts had already been made through consular channels with Mr. Awad. Our consul was present at the first hearing of his trial on October 10. We are working to ensure that consular services continue to have regular access to Mr. Awad, that his relatives can contact him and visit him, and that the charges against him are promptly clarified. According to the latest information from our post, consular visits continue to be authorized. They are proceeding in a correct manner, which Mr. Awad seems to appreciate, who has also been in contact with his family. Our consular services will, of course, continue to follow the upcoming hearings. The next one is scheduled for early November. That is all I can say about this situation. We followed her long before there were white cards or demonstrations in front of my department. Consular assistance is triggered as soon as we are aware of such a situation, without waiting for each other's positions to be taken. It is the honour of the department to act immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u53	I thank the minister for these elements of the response. Fortunately, consular assistance is provided for a Belgian national. Unfortunately, we are facing a situation where a person is arrested and imprisoned for a reason that is unknown. You say it yourself. He still does not have access to all the elements of his file. The charges against him are still unclear. Unfortunately, today, the only thing we can do is provide consular assistance. I have not heard in your reply a very clear political message about this situation, and I regret it. We have addressed several serious situations concerning the way in which the Israeli authorities take decisions that are clearly contrary to international law. Once again, we are facing this type of case and Belgium remains on the balcony. I come back with my idea, which I have already stated twice. When is your willingness to consider the sanctions that could finally make a difference in this region?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u54	Minister, you are telling us that contacts have taken place through consular channels. Of course! The problem is your silence in this case. This very serious situation creates a precedent: a Belgian is stopped on the basis of nothing! In addition to the question of this personal case, one may wonder who will still dare to travel abroad if the Belgian government does nothing when one is arrested in a country which, obviously, is practising torture and arbitrary arrests. It is your silence, Minister – in this case and in general on the crimes committed by Israel – that poses a problem. Mustapha Awad's only crime is to fight for the rights of the Palestinian people and to demand that Israel respect international law. He finally does what you and your government don't do. That is why he is imprisoned and tortured in Israel. In this context, Minister, your silence is rather shameful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u55	Madam President, Minister, two resolutions were adopted in 2016 on differentiation policy towards Israeli settlements. The aim of both resolutions was to deepen the policy of differentiation. What steps have already been taken to implement these resolutions? What steps are possibly planned to realize the floor? I would also like information on the three levels, namely the UN level, which is particularly interesting, as we will become members of the Security Council, the European level and the Belgian level from 1 January 2019. With regard to the same problem, the UN is currently working on a database of companies active in Israeli settlements. I have a series of questions on that too. Firstly, is Belgium in favour of a publication of this database? If not, for what specific reasons? Secondly, do you consider the UN database to be a concrete tool to deepen differentiation policy towards Israeli settlements? If not, for what specific reasons? Thirdly, are you prepared to work actively at the UN for a rapid publication of the UN database? If not, for what specific reasons? If so, what specific steps will you take to ensure that this database is published? Finally, are you prepared, if necessary, to provide financial and technical support to the services of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, so that the latter would have sufficient capacity to complete the database?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u56	Minister, 18 NGOs called for support for a United Nations database of data on trade relations and investment in illegal Israeli settlements in Palestinian territory. NGOs also call on Belgium to participate actively and to make public all the commercial relations and economic links of Belgian companies with illegal Israeli settlements. In this way, investment or trade relations in the occupied Palestinian territories would be discouraged. We know that Israel manages to export much of the products of illegal settlements to Europe and Belgium. They do so, among other things, by changing the postal codes of origin, making the work of differentiation difficult, if not impossible, for Belgian customs and other administrations. That is why a complete boycott of all products and services from Israel and its settlements would be necessary. Disinvestment and sanctions against the State of Israel are also the only truly effective way to compel Israel to respect international law. Given that the measures taken so far have proved ineffective in ensuring differentiation, what concrete measures does the Government intend to take during this legislature to ensure a real policy of differentiation towards Israeli settlements, as called for in Federal Parliament Resolution 1973 and UN Security Council Resolution 2334? In your reply, please distinguish between the UN level, the European level and the Belgian level if possible. The United Nations is currently working on a database of companies active in the Israeli settlement industry. Is Belgium in favour of the publication of this database? If not, why not? Are you ready to work actively within the United Nations to ensure the rapid publication of the database in question? If not, why not? If so, what specific measures will you take? Are you prepared, if necessary, to provide financial and/or technical support to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights so that it has sufficient capacity to publish the database? The "Boycott, Disinvestment and Sanctions" (BDS) campaign is gaining more and more members and therefore more and more worried Israel. Indeed, the country is aware that this peaceful strategy is truly powerful in forcing it to respect international humanitarian law. Why would Belgium not gradually take part in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I have systematically reminded you that settlements go against international law and violate Israel's obligations as military occupying forces, as set out in UN Security Council Resolution 2334 in December 2016. The continuation of Israeli settlement policy leads to a de facto progressive annexation of the West Bank, undermines the possibility of a two-state solution and constitutes an obstacle to the search for a just and lasting peace. That is why it is necessary to distinguish between activities in Israel and those carried out by Israel in the occupied Palestinian territories. This distinction is the basis of the policy of differentiation supported by Belgium at the bilateral and European levels as well as at the United Nations level. As I have often said before this committee, the logical corollary of this policy of differentiation between the territories and Israel is that it is not intended to introduce a boycott or sanctions against Israel itself. I am convinced that this too could not contribute to promoting a climate in which a return to dialogue and the search for negotiated solutions would again be possible. Several European measures have been adopted to help define this policy of differentiation: in particular, the territorial clause, in 2012, and the interpretative communication on the indication of the origin of goods from the territories occupied by Israel since June 1967, in 2015. As regards the implementation of the provisions of this interpretative communication from the European Commission in Belgium, I refer you to my colleague in charge of the Economy, Mr Kris Peeters. I have already wished, on several occasions, to see progress made at Benelux level and, failing that, at Belgian level, and I have forwarded this request to the successive Ministers of the Economy whom I have known in the various governments. It is now a question of seeing where we are in the possible implementation. As far as the United Nations database is concerned, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights was instructed in 2016 to draw up a list of companies active in Israeli settlements. Belgium supported this resolution of the Human Rights Council. Last year, the High Commissioner's office presented an interim report on the implementation of this mandate. This shows that the Agency has drawn up a preliminary list of 206 companies. Those companies are now subject to a rigorous screening procedure. The database can only be completed once the screening has been completed. In the meantime, the High Commissioner's office has decided not to publish unverified information. At the request of the High Commissioner, the Human Rights Council decided to allow more time for the implementation of this mandate. Belgium has also supported this decision and continues to follow this dossier closely. With regard to the resources of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, I would like to remind you that Belgium is a major financial contributor to the activities of this essential organ of the United Nations system. I think it is logical that the High Commissioner wishes to be sure of the information he disseminates when we know how it can be used in parliamentary fora or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u58	Minister, I would like to convince you of the great importance of this development, where we would like to make some progress as soon as possible. Last week I received a delegation from the Knesset and we had a fairly open and frank discussion. I repeat my position, which has become even stronger after that contact, in particular that the two-state solution is no longer pursued by the Netanyahu Government. The two-state solution is clinically dead. I think there's two runs left. Either the international community draws the same conclusion and concludes that a single State solution must now be worked on. Either the European Commission should put pressure on the strongest partner who has used the status quo of the last ten years to increasingly draw the sheet and therefore make a two-state solution difficult and perhaps even impossible. The pressure that must and can be put on Israel comes through the differentiation policy. If the differential policy is not possible, we will have to resort to tougher actions. In this context, I am thinking of BDS or Boycott, Desinvestment and Sanctions. But before taking this step, I think it is appropriate for Belgium, once it has its seat in the Security Council, to increase pressure on Israel through a correct and rigorous differentiation policy towards the companies located in the settlements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u59	Mr Minister, as my colleague has just said, Belgium would have the opportunity at the UN Security Council to weigh on such a matter. She still has to have the will to do it. As you explained, there are two ways: that of the total boycott of Israel – you say that this is not the solution, and I think that with such a position apartheid would still exist in South Africa – and that of differentiation, but there, things are not moving forward either. Every effort is made to curb any initiative that displeases Israel. Obviously, you are taking part in this braking since you refuse to make the information in the possession of the different countries public. That would, however, speed up the process. There are two ways: one you exclude ex officio and one you do not help. I think that your position is clear, which is also in line with the previous question on arbitrary arrests in Israel, including Belgian citizens you are not defending.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u60	Minister, do you share the concerns expressed in the Shrinking Space for a Civil Society report? If so, what concrete measures and steps do you intend to take to engage in dialogue with the Israeli authorities in this respect? This report shows that systematic disinformation is being organised with regard to activities of civil society organisations in Israel by the NGO Monitor organisation. Minister, is our diplomacy in contact with this NGO Monitor? Does our diplomacy regard the NGO Monitor as an independent and credible source of information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u61	Minister, at the end of September, an Israeli platform published a report on the shrinking space for civil society in Israel and Palestine. It focuses on the harmful practices of the "Monitor" organization, which is closely linked to the Israeli government and attempts to systematically discredit Israeli and Palestinian human rights organizations. The report documents how "Monitor" – through vague and unfounded accusations of support for terrorist groups, anti-Semitism and financial mismanagement – wants to persuade European governments to stop supporting local human rights organisations financially. Minister, how often do your services maintain contact with "Monitor"? Do you consider it an independent and credible source of information? Finally, do you share the concern of the Shrinking Space report that the space reserved for Israeli and Palestinian civil society organisations is under pressure? If so, what concrete measures do you intend to take to counter this harmful trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u62	Madam President, I would like to thank Members of Parliament for their questions on the recently published September Shrinking Space report of the Policy Working Group. This group sees itself as an Israeli collective of former diplomat academics and others seeking to promote a change in relations between Israel and Palestine, starting from the two-state solution. They are then very involved in strengthening Israeli civil society. The subtitle of their report refers explicitly to NGO Monitor, as NGO Monitor "Defaming human rights organisations that criticize the Israeli occupation." The report is very critical of NGO Monitor and tries to demonstrate that it is not a reliable and independent source. It draws attention to their partial methods of analysis. The following examples are cited: the selectivity of the NGOs they monitor; the lack of transparency in the funding of this organisation; the false accusations that NGO Monitor uses to discredit organisations as well as persons working there; the lack of field research; critical NGOs as a threat to Israel's existence, etc. My services have little contact with NGO Monitor and so far only at their initiative. The last contact with our embassy in Tel Aviv dates from August 2017. In addition, we have regular contacts with all kinds of Israeli and Palestinian NGOs both in Brussels and on the spot, with the Embassy in Tel Aviv and the Consulate General in Jerusalem, or on official visits. Civil society in Israel, like that of Palestine, is very diverse and active. Freedom of expression and a vibrant civil society are the guarantors of an open and democratic society. Unfortunately, we are seeing increasing pressure on these NGOs, both on the part of the government and at the legislative level. Belgium has repeatedly expressed its concern at this development. This concern is also shared by the European Union and several of our European partners. Like other Member States, Belgium will continue to support civil society in Israel and Palestine, including through regular meetings and meetings in Brussels, Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, but obviously with a critical attitude towards all the organisations we meet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and encourage you to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u64	Minister, if I understand your answer correctly, you consider it to be one association like another. That you exercise your critical mind towards all associations, I suppose. However, I asked you whether you considered this NGO or rather this OG – because I am not sure that it is appropriate to call it "non-governmental" – as an independent and credible source of information. Clearly, you are refusing to take a position on the Israeli government's attempt to disqualify and discredit several civil society actors. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u65	Président: Dirk Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u66	Mr President, Minister, on a Dutch television show, Nieuwsuur, at the beginning of October, it became clear that the Netherlands had joined a special American programme of "non-lethal" aid to "moderate" rebels in Syria over the last three years. This was organised through private companies, which received millions of euros from a Dutch government fund. This non-lethal support was presented as development aid in the form of "logistical" equipment to support the moderate opposition in Syria. The act was actually less innocent, because much of this "logistical" support was given to the Syrian variant of AI-Qaeda. This proves once again that the "war on terrorism" is false and counterproductive. Minister, is there such a program in Belgium, as the country is a member of the international coalition led by the United States? If so, what control mechanisms have you implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u67	Mr Van Hees, Belgium has not put such a programme in place, nor would it support one. Our support is mainly of a humanitarian nature. In Syria, Belgium finances humanitarian assistance only through international humanitarian organizations, in particular United Nations agencies, such as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), UNRWA or the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), WFP or the World Food Programme (WFP), and ICRC or the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). These organizations only work with humanitarian organizations that have been subject to verification and monitoring procedures by United Nations agencies. Belgian funding for humanitarian aid is used for food aid, protection, water and sanitation, medical assistance, education and winter facilities for the most vulnerable populations. Through the Peacebuilding budget line, Belgium also supports projects for Syrian refugees, civil society or the Syrian population, such as supporting the activities of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, supporting the development of independent media or educating young people on democracy, participation and pluralism. That is what we are doing in Syria!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic982x.u68	Mr Minister, if this answer is correct, I can only welcome the fact that, unlike the Netherlands, Belgium does not supply 4X4 or other non-lethal equipment to the Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda.
