ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u1	Colleagues, the minister will try to stay beyond 4:30 p.m. to answer questions. There was normally no limit in time this afternoon. Since we will not be able to deal with all the issues, we will try to do so in the order you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I believe that we have all read in the media that, after a few severe earthquakes caused by the gas extraction in Groningen, the Dutch government institution of State surveillance of the mines advises that the gas tap should be turned off earlier. They advise to reduce production even more drastically to ensure the safety of residents in and around the gas extraction area. The Dutch Minister of Economy wants to follow the advice to reduce gas production from 21.6 to 12 billion cubic metres. The Netherlands had already announced that it would stop exporting L-gas to Belgium by the end of 2029 at the latest. This implies the conversion of our gas grid from L-gas to H-gas. According to your policy paper, Madam Minister, this conversion process will start from the summer of 2018. We have already had a lot of discussions on this in this committee. Following the news about a new advice from the Netherlands to close faster, I have a number of questions again. Have you received any signals yourself, Madam Minister, that the Netherlands would like to stop exporting gas to our country even earlier? Have you been in contact with the Netherlands about this? If so, what was agreed on this? The Netherlands, as we all know, has a long-term contract until 2029. Can the Netherlands intervene on current gas contracts? If so, what are the consequences? Finally, the government agreement included the creation of a national fund to finance the conversion of low to high-caloric gas. We have already had an exchange of views, including during the discussion of your policy paper. At that time, you said that the regions should also participate in the financing, in relation to their powers. They have already been invited to participate in the negotiations on the financing of the Fund. I would have liked to have had a final update on these negotiations. How are these negotiations going? What are the possible problems? When can we expect this fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u3	Madam Minister, developments in the Netherlands around gas are accelerating. They are already committed to reducing gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres by 2022. After that, it's gonna have to go down a lot faster. To this end, we also want to limit the export of gas. In that discussion, the government warns that this choice will have consequences for the Dutch, including in terms of price. After all, they want to add massive nitrogen to the gas in order to transform high-caloric gas into low-caloric gas. This will, of course, have a number of consequences for us. Firstly, how do you see the consequences of this evolution in the Netherlands on the use of low-caloric gas in us? What steps will you take to limit its impact? Secondly, a great deal has already been said about the transition from low-caloric to high-caloric gas. Can you give me a final update on the claim? Thirdly, on the gas change website which you launched some time ago together with a number of colleagues, reference is made to the distribution system operators for the timeline of the checks. They work with a calendar that was based on the original plans, namely a changeover that runs until 2029. With a customized Dutch calendar, the question is whether the changeover will take place soon enough. I am curious to hear your views on the changed circumstances in the Netherlands in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u4	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions, which are of course of great importance to Belgium, and I will answer them separately, although there are elements that overlap and enrich each other for each of your questions. Following a worrying situation of increase in seismic activity – as you recalled, Mrs Dierick – in the L gas extraction area, the Netherlands has identified a number of national measures, as set out in the letter to Parliament of 29 March 2018, aimed at restricting the production of natural gas from this deposit as soon as possible and not to extract L gas by 2030. The final draft decision is expected for the summer. In this context, the Netherlands has not, for the time being, made any changes to the announcement of the cessation of exports of L gas from their country to ours by the end of 2029. Several consultations have taken place between the Netherlands and neighbouring L-gas-using countries in order to identify, in addition to the measures studied in the Netherlands, measures which can be taken by importing countries, including Belgium, to reduce L-gas extraction in the Netherlands. Belgium recognizes the need for solidarity between the countries affected by the problem and is also ready to contribute to it. Nevertheless, we have drawn attention to the following (and I have had the opportunity to say this myself, already twice, to the Dutch Minister of Energy): 1. Belgian L-gas customers are 90% of the "protected customers". 2. Belgium has already made many efforts since 2012, including the establishment of a process of conversion of L gas users to H gas, as of last year, and the large-scale implementation of which is already beginning on 1 June 2018, as I have already said on several occasions. Thirdly, Belgium's conversion plan is optimised and implemented proactively before the Dutch export reduction began in 2022, more than four years ahead. As a last element, Belgium has a comfortable lead in terms of conversion, with all the power plants and a large part of the industrialists having already converted to H gas. With regard to your second question, Mrs Dierick, the long-term contracts with GasTerra, which some suppliers operate on the Belgian market, are commercial contracts on which the Belgian authorities have no influence. I do not know the clauses of the contracts and cannot therefore assess whether there is a mechanism whereby the Dutch authorities may or may not interact with the clauses of those contracts. Suppliers also announced that they would comply with these contracts. For your third question, I would say that the dialogue is continuing. I wrote to my regional colleagues in November. Without any reply from them, I rewritten them in February. Today, all responded. We met on 13 March on this subject. This consultation did not lead to an agreement. The agreement was therefore reached, but no agreement could be reached. I am currently considering the follow-up to this disagreement, which has no impact on the funding of the operation with respect to federal jurisdiction. Because, as you have reminded yourself, the financial support is carried out in accordance with the law and as announced in my General Policy Note, as of October 27, 2016, each level of authority assumes its powers and supports them financially. My objective remains the implementation of the government agreement reflected in my policy note of 27 October 2016 in which I said: "Agreed on a financing mechanism. The indicative planning makes it possible to accurately determine the costs of converting natural gas from low-caloric gas to high-caloric gas. The allocation of revenues must respect physical and territorial competences. The revenue from a level of government may not be allocated to another level of government. The establishment of a national fund, as defined in the coalition agreement, will comply with these rules." I'm answering Mr. Wollants. With regard to your first question, the Dutch Government wishing to achieve the objective as soon as possible, a wide range of possibilities have been explored, both in terms of supply and demand. In this search for new measures, the Netherlands consulted the various actors who could contribute to the measures both internally and externally in the Netherlands as well as in the gas-importing countries of Germany, Belgium and France. It appears from this exercise and calls for contributions that by October 2022, a decrease in the level of extraction to 12 BCM (billion cubic meters) could be achieved in accordance with the first analysis conducted by GTS (Gasunie Transport Services, the Dutch system operator). This has been made possible by additional measures on the supply side, such as the construction of an additional nitrogen production unit in Zuidbroeck, Holland, which will have to be operational on 1 October 2020, and on the demand side, such as the H-gas switchover of some large Dutch consumers in addition to the L-network conversion plans already in place in Germany and Belgium. With regard to the accelerated changeover, decided by the Dutch authorities, I would like to stress that our country has been making a considerable effort for some time now in terms of conversion measures. For your second question, the basis of the conversion schedule is the announcement made by the Dutch authorities to the Belgian authorities concerning the end of gas exports in 2030. This announcement was made in 2012. As soon as the Dutch authorities announced in 2012 to reduce exports of L-gas to Belgium on a medium-term basis, between 2024 and 2030, transmission and distribution system operators developed a total conversion plan for the Belgian L-gas market by the end of 2029. Although the date announced by the Netherlands for the start of the decline in exports was 2024, a pilot phase of conversion has already been completed in 2016 and 2017. Moreover, as of 2015, the last major industrial area fed with poor gas has been converted. As far as the power generation units are concerned, none of them is supplied with poor gas. This year, an important conversion operation will take place, namely about 50,000 connections that will be converted to H-gas from 1 June 2018. A public information campaign was launched in 2017. It was launched at a press conference of Belgian energy ministers, federal and regional. The indicative conversion schedule was communicated to the population at that time. Belgium has drawn up this planning taking into account the end date of the exports announced by the Dutch authorities taking into account, inter alia, certain long-term contracts concluded by the market with the Dutch producer GasTerra. Synergrid is continuing work on a more definitive schedule and there is currently a schedule for the next three years: 2018, 2019 and 2020. The procedure developed provides that each year, the conversion schedule is approved for the three years to be followed. As mentioned above, the vast majority of industrial consumers as well as all power plants have already been converted to H gas. Belgium must now continue the conversion of distribution networks. This process began several years ago. With regard to an immediate acceleration of the conversion schedule, this possibility has been assessed but is not possible in practice. Planning is indeed the result of a compromise between different constraints: management of additional costs, feasibility of using the existing transport and distribution infrastructure, capacity necessary for the supply of the French market, constraints related to checking the compatibility of the apparatus, etc. This indicative planning prepared by Synergrid and Fluxys in consultation with stakeholders also takes into account the capacity required in the transport network to supply the Belgian market with rich gas and poor gas and the supply of poor gas to the French market. The development of the planning takes into account the delay in meeting the additional transport infrastructure requirements, the operations to be carried out by the distribution system operators in order to adapt the distribution pressure, the need to warn consumers two years in advance and the availability of technicians authorised to carry out the verification of the apparatus. On the basis of this planning, 2 BCM remain vis-à-vis the current consumption of 5 BCM after the conversion of Brussels, i.e. after 2024. As a result of the latest developments in the Netherlands, there have been no adjustments to the schedule. In conclusion, Belgium has already made many efforts to reduce its L-gas consumption and can only continue the actions initiated at this stage. The conversion operation will begin as planned this year and close in 2029. However, as explained above, the planned reduction in L gas consumption following the implementation of this plan by 2022, combined with the various other measures applied in Germany, France and the Netherlands, should be sufficient to reduce the level of production in Groningen to 12 BCM without endangering the security of supply of consumers who will not be converted to H gas before 2022. I'm done and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u5	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. It was a bit fast for the translation, but I tried to get it right. In the media, we have heard that the Netherlands is considering an earlier cessation, but at the moment Belgium has not yet received a final decision. It's expected for the summer. I suggest we prepare everything well and think carefully proactively. If it is decided that everything stops by 2022, then we have to be ready. You yourself say that the changeover plan is going well and that Belgium is certainly making a firm effort. I can only be satisfied that the changeover plan was optimised and made more efficient. If I understand correctly, you say that Belgium has been at the forefront for four years. Are you actually saying we'll be all done by 2025? I didn't get that right. If we have to be done by 2022, we are actually still three years behind. I'd like to be more clear about that. I understand we'd be done by 2025. The national fund is in the coalition agreement. I hope this will be realised. It is a pity that the regional colleagues did not attend your meeting the first time, but the second time they sat around the table. I am glad that you say that this does not affect federal powers, but I particularly hope that this does not affect ordinary citizens on the streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. There is a great deal of public attention to this issue. In some cases they wonder how it will all turn out, especially with the news that comes from the Netherlands now when one hears where they want to go. We need to follow those evolutions closely. As you have said, you must maintain close contact with your Dutch colleagues to see how this will all proceed. Then we can make sure that we are ready in good time, because of course we never know how this dossier will develop. Usually it gets higher on the agenda as the effects on the site are more apparent in Groningen. The Dutch, of course, expect their government to do everything in its power to prevent such cases. This also means that we must keep our finger on the pulse and keep our eyes on the future to see what is possible. Speeding things up is indeed not a simple matter. That is why we certainly need to keep the line with the Netherlands open so that we can continue to adapt and guarantee our citizens that that supply is in order, that it remains assured and that it will have the right price.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u7	Mr President, briefly, and we can discuss this between us, I will pass on the full translation of the answer to the honourable Member so that you can come back to me on the timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you. I guess this doesn't require a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u9	Mr.President, Minister, in January, the FEB asked you whether the energy standard would become a reality in 2018. To that, you replied that it was linked to the offshore degression mechanism, which is currently being examined by the European Commission. You added that depending on this position, the Federal and the Regions will have to work together to propose a system favouring businesses without penalising individuals. If I would, of course, like to see a national standard in place to preserve the competitiveness of the electro-intensive industries, I would nevertheless like to know more about the mechanisms you are considering for your "energy standard". I assume that the offshore degression mechanism is only one of its parameters. This standard has to be taken at national level, so I would like to know what is the status of negotiations with the other federated entities? Is this energy standard envisaged on the basis of a closed envelope? When you say that you are waiting for the Commission's position on the offshore degression mechanism, is this the last stumbling block in the implementation of the energy standard? Are other parameters likely to be problematic? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u10	Mr.President, Minister, on March 30, 2018, the federal government agreed to put an energy standard in place. In terms of purchasing power and competitiveness, there is general agreement that it is important to ensure that businesses and households pay the "fair price" for the energy they consume and the public services associated with it (e.g. safe and reliable transport and distribution networks). However, it is essential to avoid an increase in the bill for residential consumers and SMEs, in order to reduce the bill for large industries, as has been done in Germany for example. Minister, what concrete steps will be taken to put this energy standard in place and what are your plans for the coming months? Can you assure us that this energy standard will not have the effect of reducing aid granted via social tariffs or of increasing residential consumers' bills?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u11	Mr President, Madam Minister, since my colleagues have been on the subject for a long time, I can be very brief. Where are we in developing an energy standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u13	Mrs. Lalieux, I'm wrong. I apologize and withdraw what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u14	They were very good! You got the wrong letter, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u15	They were very relevant. So I'm going to do it quickly and with much less relevance. Minister, what is the status of the development of an energy standard? What content and how are you going to give this standard? Do you confirm that you are required to table a draft law on this standard in the Council of Ministers by 20 July 2018 at the latest? Do you confirm your responsibility to table a draft bill reforming the system of degression of offshore overload at the Council of Ministers on 31 May 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u16	Madam Secretary, how will the energy standard take shape? Is there a preliminary draft law by 20 July? At least that is what we have heard in the media. What ideas are currently being considered for concrete action? In what way does this method differ from price monitoring, as the CREG already does? Finally, in the Netherlands, the Planning Bureau has passed on the income effects of climate and energy policy. This showed that poor families pay up to three times more than wealthy families. A review carried out by Ernst&Young of the contributions to the financing versus the contributions to the pollution showed that certain sectors generate more burdens on society than they would like on the economic level in terms of the environment. Will you instruct the Planning Bureau to carry out such an analysis for Belgium as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u17	Madam Minister, since the pertinence of this has already been demonstrated on several occasions, I will also confine myself to the questions. What basis of comparison will you use to shape that part of the coalition agreement? The cost must not be higher than in the neighbouring countries. In what way will you respect that agreement? Should the costs not exceed the average of our neighbouring countries or not exceed the costs in the most expensive neighbouring country? Will a separate standard be defined by energy source or will all energy sources be grouped to make the calculation? What's your vision on that? The CREG compares prices every semester with those in our neighbouring countries. This exercise today shows that Belgium is now the second most expensive country in the neighbouring countries for private individuals and professional consumers in terms of electricity; we are 18 to 22% more expensive than the average. Is it intended that the energy standard reduces costs to that average?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u18	Minister, the energy standard is a measure contained in the government agreement. It states that it "will aim to ensure that the different components of energy costs are not higher in Belgium than in our neighbours, so as to preserve the competitiveness of our enterprises and the purchasing power of households". In order to work towards the competitiveness of our companies, the energy standard will take precisely into account industries with an intense energy consumer profile. According to Febeliec, which brings together large electricity users, the high costs of electricity lead to a negative impact on the development of employment and can also limit the investments of our companies. On the other hand, an audit commissioned by the same federation estimates that our industries are paying an additional 10 to 34% on electricity compared to neighbouring countries. The standard will be laid out in a draft bill tabled at first reading by 20 July. The timing is tight for the other steps to be taken upstream, but in general, I would like to ask you the following questions. Who will be responsible for developing the energy standard, and with what support? Have the work already started? In view of the electricity prices in our neighbours, to what targets should the energy standard be set in order to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u19	Now, that's the full question trick! You have the floor, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u20	Mr. Chair, honourable senators, the government is committed to adopting an energy standard. This, which will depend on the consumption profile and energy intensity, will aim, as you have pointed out, to ensure that the different components of energy costs are not higher in Belgium than in our neighbours. The aim is to preserve the competitiveness of our businesses and the purchasing power of households. This standard will apply to the various components. Particular attention will be given to the cost of gas and electricity for industries with an intense energy profile. You also recalled that a draft bill will be introduced at first reading for July 20th. With this in mind, I will also table in the Council of Ministers on 31 May a preliminary draft law reforming the system of degression of offshore overload. As components of the energy standard, the federal (and it is important to think about by level of power): the prices of convenience (electricity or gas); transportation (including public service overloads such as the strategic reserve); offshore overload; the federal contribution, which, let us recall, covers protected customers and the cost of regulation. In short: product, transport, taxes, overloads. It seems assumed that a federal energy standard alone could not be relevant if it were to be offset by increases decided upon at another level of power. It follows from the Federal Government's agreement that the energy standard is of interest only if it preserves the purchasing power and maintains the competitiveness of Belgian companies in relation to prices in the Netherlands, France, Germany and, to a certain extent, the United Kingdom. If we accept, as is rightly the case with the federal government agreement, that most of the determination of an energy standard, both for federated entities and for the federal government, is to preserve competitiveness, starting from employment, then the following priorities should be put forward systematically: price monitoring in Belgium, on the one hand, and benchmarking, price comparison with the aforementioned countries on the other hand, and price components, on the other hand, should be carried out. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to adopt a barometer of Belgian competitiveness which would be accepted by all entities and which would be the recognized reference. Without waiting for legislative authorization, I have just asked the Commission de régulation de l'électricité et du gaz (CREG) to collaborate in the creation through the Forbec platform of an annual study on the evolution of the components of the electricity and gas bill for the country as a whole, and the comparison with neighbouring countries. Indeed, a thorough and objective analysis must be the starting point for determining a standard of competitiveness. This is, in any case, the meaning of the current reflection, which will be reflected in a preliminary draft. An energy standard, in so far as it pursues the objective of preserving the purchasing power of households, cannot have the effect of reducing the aid granted through the social tariffs which are financed by the federal contribution. Such a study should be accepted by all entities and be the recognized reference. It should be ensured in advance that the components of the previously identified standard, in particular those of degression on offshore overload, are compatible with European law. The current discussions at European level are still in an informal phase and a detailed argument from the Commission is expected in order to be able to officially notify the system of offshore degression. That is why I will propose a solution to the government on this matter. I will pay particular attention to Mrs Lalieux's question on the consequences and possible impact of the aid currently granted through social tariffs. Of course, I will take care not to prejudice the purchasing power of our fellow citizens, as provided for in the government agreement and as reflected in the federal strategy. With regard to Mr Wollants' more technical questions, particular attention will be paid to the cost of gas and electricity for industries with an intense energy profile. Furthermore, as said earlier, I have asked CREG to carry out this study, which will describe the evolution of all the components of the electricity and gas bill for the whole country and the comparison with neighbouring countries, which will allow us to have a very precise view of the energy intensive consumers. All these elements will allow us, I hope, to have a barometer of Belgian competitiveness, which, if accepted by the four levels of power, should be the central element in bringing about an energy standard together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u21	Minister, I take note of your answer, which leaves a number of questions still outstanding in relation to the development of the issue. I heard what you're up to. Nevertheless, questions remain, particularly in relation to the position of the European Commission. Was it the last stumbling block? You have announced a number of measures. I'm waiting to see them. Above all, I would like to point out that electro-intensive activities are not just industries but also SMEs and businesses. I wish we could have been clear on this dimension. We will return to the subject. I won't be longer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u22	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you. I have heard that we will not receive all social assistance and the social rate. I have not yet heard whether the bill for residential consumers would increase, according to the German model. I hope not. If I understand all the steps that still need to be taken with the competitiveness barometer, the study of the CREG, the validation by the four Regions and a draft bill on 20 July, I do not know how you will keep the timing. We know that on 20 July Parliament is on leave. You will have two more months to stick to your timing because, given the difficulties around the energy pact, I do not see how validation could take place in less than three months. We have some answers, and we'll see later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u23	I take note, Madam Minister, of the agenda on which you have committed yourself and I will question you at a later stage, since time is running out for us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u25	Madam Minister, it is indeed important that there should be studies so that we have a clear view of them. It is widely known that mostly electro-intensive companies are exposed to the effects of price increases. However, we must avoid using the wrong definition of electro-intensive. Mr de Lamotte has already referred to the fact that a number of definitions of electro-intensive are circulating at European level. They are based on a minimum consumption of energy, while an SME may have a very large share of its product, which makes it electro-intensive, but does not achieve a minimum consumption of electricity. We must pay attention to this, because if we use the wrong definition, it may well be that a lot of companies are falling out of the boat. That is my concern, but I am sure that you have already made that mistake and that you will take it fully into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u26	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her answers. I would like to highlight the initiative to ask the CREG for this annual study, which will allow both an analysis of the different components of the prices of an electricity and gas bill and an assessment of its evolution. It is important to be able to compare the results with our neighbouring countries for a precise view in order to take good action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u27	Minister, Belgium is due to submit its National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) 2030 at the end of December. This may seem a long time ago, but we know that Belgium has often had difficulty meeting the deadlines, which is why I would like to take stock with you. Minister, what is the status of the development of this NCP? How did you plan the work to respect the timing? Do you confirm that you have to provide the government with an update by 15 October 2018 so that Belgium will be able to return its plan by 31 December 2018? What is the precise timetable? What is the status of the federal government in the part that belongs to it? What federal measures are you considering in this area? How did you plan the federal work for the future? What association of NGOs and citizens have you planned in the development of the PNEC and when? Can you commit to filing a PNEC on time and above all be ambitious? What level of ambition will the PNEC aim to achieve?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u28	Madam Minister, I have asked you recently about the progress made in the burden sharing 2021-2030 and you replied, I quote: "Concerning the preparatory work for the burden sharing 2021-2030, the decision was taken at the last meeting of the National Climate Commission on 31 May 2017 to mandate a technical group to carry out an analysis of the elements to be allocated 2021-2030 and a synthesis containing the principles that led to the previous agreement, and in particular the distribution keys applied in 2013-2020, as well as the other options envisaged." However, I was surprised by the follow-up to the reply, in which you say: "To date, the mandate needed to start the analysis has not yet been properly validated, which explains why the work of the technical group has not yet been able to begin." Minister, can you explain why, more than ten months after the decision to appoint a technical group to look at such an essential point, no progress could be made? What elements block the mandate required for the analysis? Can you give us a deadline for the beginning of this analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u29	Madam Minister, we read in the slides to the Energy Pact that Belgium intends to submit an integrated national energy and climate plan (NEKP) to the European Commission this time. However, Flemish Minister of Energy Tommelein spoke earlier of the completion by November 2018 of the Flemish part of that plan. So there is little time left for you to make an integrated plan by 1 January 2019, which is the deadline for the European Commission. First, should the Regions and the federal government each be ready to contribute in accordance with the slides to the Energy Pact by July 2018? What exactly does this contribution mean? What are the regions supposed to deliver? Secondly, prior to the data collection, has there been consultation on a common vision from which the plan should start? This seems necessary if we are to come up with an integrated plan. On the other hand, is it going to be again cutting and sticking the various plans of the different regions? Thirdly, the Interparliamentary Climate Committee, like the Business Committee for Updates, seems to be a good place to regularly get a more comprehensive state of affairs and to discuss the content of the plan with all parties. After all, the plan must survive several governments, in particular until 2030. Will you give interim and comprehensive explanations on the plan in committee? I hope that you will be present more frequently than you are present to answer questions. Fourthly, will we in that NEKP formulate the ambition to move towards zero emissions by 2050, as the Paris Agreement requires? Fifthly, is the plan being drawn up looking at the harmonisation of the monitoring methods of the different entities? At present, each region uses different ways to estimate greenhouse gas emissions and assess the impact of policies. Several research reports have been asking for years to address this issue. Is that what you're doing? Finally, judging from your speech at the Fluxys Forum last Monday, the layout of the plan is approaching the finish line. Is that right? What is the further path for the layout of the plan, both for 2018 in the run-up to the draft version and for 2019 in the run-up to the final plan? Can you give more explanation at the timeline, the data to be collected and the stakeholders, who will be consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u30	Mr President, I will answer every question. The answer to Ms. Temmerman's very detailed question is also searched. I apologize for the length, but it's the material that demands it. The National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) is being prepared. This work is carried out under the coordination of a joint group of experts, federal and regional administrations in charge of energy and climate, established jointly by the CONCERE Group and the National Climate Commission (CNC). Both bodies adopted at the end of December the working methodology for the development of the PNEC. The agreed timetable provides that the individual entities submit their respective plans to the CNC and to the CONCERE by 15 July 2018 at the latest. The first consolidated draft of the national plan is expected by 1 October, while final approval is expected by 15 December at the latest with a view to the submission of the PNEC project to the European Commission on 31 December 2018, as foreseen in the draft governance regulation of the Energy and Climate Union. The arrangements agreed between the CNC and CONCERE provide for public consultation and national consultation on the draft plan in early 2019 during the period during which the European Commission will carry out the analysis of the PNEC project and make its recommendations. The deadline for submission of the final version of the plan is December 31, 2019. At the same time, Belgium will also have to submit its long-term low-emission strategy in accordance with the European Energy Union Governance Regulation. With regard to the allocation of efforts for the period 2021-2030, the working group mandated by the CNC to prepare a preliminary assessment presented its report to the members of the CNC at the meeting on 6 December 2017. In accordance with the mandate received from the CNC, this report includes an overview of the climate and energy issues in relation to the Burden sharing file and how these issues relate to each other. It also includes recommendations on the elements to be considered directly or indirectly. The second part of the report sets out the principles applied in the negotiations of the Burden Sharing 2013-2020 to allocate the various elements of the agreement, as well as different options on the basis of the principles set out in the existing opinions of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and in the Senate information report in particular. This report is available on the CNC website. Ms Temmerman, the ENOVER-NEKP 2030 Steering Committee was established in April 2016 and consists of experts from the federal and regional energy administrations. This is the translation from the beginning of the answer I have just made. I'm going a little further. In any case, you will receive the full version. With the necessary iterations we hope to achieve a coherent and integrated plan, including on the monitoring methods used by the regions. The greenhouse gas emission inventories are managed by the regions and are relatively well harmonised. However, the NKC recognises that the methods for reporting policy measures can be improved. Indeed, each entity uses its own ex post and ex ante estimates and thus data on measures are often fragmented, not comparable, aggregated or expressed with different indicators. Both the draft regulation on governance and the Paris Agreement require the elaboration of long-term low-carbon strategies by 2050. According to the draft regulation on governance, those plans should be submitted to the Commission by 1 January 2020. In addition, the European Council of 22 March 2018 invited the European Commission to come forward with a proposal for a strategy for the long-term reduction of European Union greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement, taking into account national plans, no later than the first quarter of 2019. However, the national energy and climate plan has 2030 as its target year and will not directly include the target for 2050. However, the evaluation will assess whether the impact of the combined proposed policy is on track to achieve the previously agreed objectives by 2050. Finally, as far as the next stage is concerned, I fear that there will be a great deal of work to be done in the coming months. My administrations are writing all over the federal angle for the NEKP. The federal contribution is coordinated by a federal task force, chaired by the Directors-General of Energy and Climate, respectively, of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment and the FPS Economy, SMEs and Energy. As the plan is transversal in nature and will therefore also have an impact on other policy areas such as mobility, management of buildings, defence, science policy and finance, my respective colleagues were also formally asked to make a contribution and commitment to meeting the transversal approach of the exercise. In any event, the federal part of the plan will be based on the Energy Pact and the various long-term and impact studies carried out in the framework of a long-term vision of energy and climate. The competent administrations will make a first start on this. Parliament's wishes, as expressed in the interparliamentary joint declaration on Belgian climate policy, are also taken into account. In that sense, I take your suggestion from the interparliamentary climate committee as a partner in this process to heart, and I look forward to your possible contribution to the plan. The plan must indeed have been implemented and I therefore wish to involve stakeholders in the formulation of the federal part of the NEKP. In mid-April, I asked the Central Council for Business and the Federal Council for Sustainable Development for a compact and consensual opinion on the levers to be used and the policies and instruments to be implemented in the national energy and climate plan. In addition, a targeted stakeholder consultation was already carried out in the context of the Energy Pact design, as well as a very extensive public consultation, the results of which have already been taken into account in the final Energy Pact preparation and will therefore also indirectly serve as an input to the national plan. In the context of the ENOVER and NKC working methodology of December 2017, it was also decided that a national stakeholder event will be held after the completion of the first draft plan in early 2019. With the involvement of stakeholders, I hope to arrive at a coherent and broadly supported draft plan through an iterative process, which we will deliver to the European Commission in good time. The period of evaluation by the European Commission in 2019, moreover, seems to me to be a good time to conduct an in-depth consultation of citizens and to allow stakeholders to strengthen and make the document more coherent in order to create a NEKP by the end of 2019 that provides a framework for energy and climate policy for the next decade. I am sorry for repeating some of the things I said in French. This is due to the fact that your question was dated yesterday when I had answered the other questions before. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u31	Minister, I take note of the timetable and will come back later at each stage. I would, however, like to add a point concerning the part of the consultations. You are talking about national public consultations in 2019, once the first version is tabled and sent in parallel to Europe. I would like to insist that you form an association upstream, but not on the consultation part of the citizens. I understand that a first version must be adopted to do so. But I would like to insist upstream on the involvement of NGOs from the very beginning of the preparation of the work on the 2030 PNEC. You will of course have to meet them formally later, but do not wait until you have finished a first version of the plan to associate them already. At this stage, however, we do not know more about the level of ambition. I will come back, as part of the steps you set out on 15 July, 1 October and 15 December, to ask you more about this level of ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll stay there at this point. Mr President, I would like my question No 24326 to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u33	We take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u34	I thank the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u35	Madam Minister, it was not my surprise to discover, in the call for projects launched by the SPF Economy, that one of the three themes targeted for the use of the resources of the Energy Transition Fund was nuclear energy! Is it worth recalling that the aim of this Fund is to encourage and support the research and development of innovative energy projects? Does not the fact of making it possible to support research projects on the subject of nuclear energy run counter to commitments you made in Parliament before? I can quote a number of commitments. In the plenary session of 17 June 2015, you were asked about the project and you said this (page 27 of the report): "It is not a question of using, as some have supported, the Fund's means to encourage nuclear energy. Let it be clear." The second quotation appears in the report of the bill, and therefore refers to the work in committee (page 17 of document 54/1046/003): "The Minister denies that these means will be used to encourage and support nuclear energy". What is the credibility of your remarks today, Madam Minister, if you confirm to me in your reply that this call for projects actually allows - and the point itself as one of the chapters - support for nuclear energy? Your answers in plenary and committee were unambiguous. You were completely closing the door. And here, you open door and windows as long as you haven't changed from the call that was launched. I therefore ask you whether you cannot go back to your previous statements and respect that in the choice of projects as they will be retained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u36	Madam Minister, the call for the Energy Transition Fund stipulated that proposals could be submitted until 28 February 2018. Following an advisory round via the AD Energy on 31 May, decisions can then be taken. The earlier calls have not led to a mass of projects being supported. This means that the Energy Transition Fund will continue to have the necessary resources. Since the applications are all in place, it may be possible to make an initial evaluation to determine whether this new call has led to the desired results. How do you evaluate the number of proposals received in the meantime? Has this call turned out to be more than the last one? The three thematic axes of this call were renewable energy, nuclear energy and security of supply. Do you have a view of the distribution of the different axes of the projects received and how do you evaluate the split-up in those axes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u37	Madam Minister, on 7 March, we read in a newspaper: "In 2015, energy minister Marie-Christine Marghem stressed that the millions of taxes on nuclear power plants Objective 1 and Objective 2 could certainly not be returned to the nuclear sector. This is now possible." In the meantime, we know that 25 projects would have been submitted to support the Energy Transition Fund. As a result of this article, I have the following questions. As Mr Nollet said, you assured both the committee and the plenary that no nuclear projects could be selected. Have you changed the criteria so that projects that do not necessarily involve federal powers can also compete? Who are the proposers and with which projects? Can you get us a full list? Last year only one project was accepted, namely Elijah's. The project was not allocated the full 20 million euros. How much was the project allocated? Is the budget that was not used going to be on top of the planned budget this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u38	Mr President, I have already had an opportunity to discuss this, particularly with the press. There have already been some very specific things that have been given in response to your concern about one of the possible themes of the grant allocation, starting from this fund. The explanation is very simple. There is no contradiction between what you say from 2015 and later on and the current situation. A regulatory or legislative framework must be general in scope and cannot under any circumstances begin to introduce criteria that would be non-objective. In this context, in order for the regulatory and legal framework to be valid and non-critical, it must be open to all technologies, as regards the title of the royal decree that you know as well as I, of innovative energy production and of innovative storage or of research and development in storage. I answer everyone at the same time. Of 28 projects submitted in February 2018, only 25, which is already quite good, can be retained. So there are three of them that cannot be retained. Last year, there were 29 projects. As I had already told you, there are a series of projects that were tabled last year and that had been judged very severely. I was hoping to get eight. Finally, there was only one who was admitted. It's a project developed by Elia. A number of applicants, associations, institutions or companies proposing a project have rebidd as part of this call for tenders. I believe I have already said that, but I repeat, there is no money lost in this context, since the Council of Ministers has taken over a decision that would allow the Fund's total resources to be reallocated to the tune of 20 million a year over a longer period. Similarly, amounts that would not have been used in the 2016 and 2017 vintages can now be used in subsequent vintages until at least 2020-2021, if I remember correctly. I have not yet received an analysis of all the projects submitted and which can be retained, carried out by the administration. When I receive this study, I myself will conduct an analysis to draft a proposal to the federal government. I will not be alone in this text: every time I file a file with the federal government, work is done in a working group, by the IKW (intercabinets), expressing the sensitivity of the whole government before the proposal is made at the federal government level. I'll have an opportunity to come back to you when the government takes a stand. I cannot speak on all these projects before the final decision of the government. The regulatory framework is configured as follows: balance must not be broken and objectivity must remain absolutely perfect for all those who propose a project within this framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u39	Madam Minister, your answer is absolutely not on the road. On the contrary, it even suggests that because there is a need for a government agreement, you may be forced to support projects that you alone would not support. What you said in committee and what you said in plenary engages you politically. It is on behalf of the government that you come here in committee and in plenary. If, in the end, it were to be found that projects involving support for the nuclear sector were to be selected, you would have a huge political problem of non-compliance with commitments that you have made to Parliament. That is to say, we will carefully monitor the selection among the projects. But when you spoke in committee and in plenary, it was without any ambiguity, without any reservations, without any need to introduce – remember the amendment that we proposed – an amendment that allowed you to be legally consolidated in the text that allowed us to refuse nuclear energy. But not only did you not follow it, but in addition you explicitly pointed out the nuclear sector as the second possible chapter in your call for projects. And that, there was no text that required you to do so. No text! Even if you refused our amendment, there was no text requiring you to open a chapter as such on the nuclear sector. So my question is simple: what is the credibility of your ministerial word? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u40	Yes, that's a question, Madam Minister, because if you had...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u41	I do not intend to start a debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u42	You know, in the Netherlands, it is not complicated: a minister who is committed to Parliament and who does not respect his commitment after, whatever his excuse, he must resign immediately!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u43	Of course. It's been a long time since you've wanted me to do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u44	And that's the Netherlands. Here, we will judge when we look at all the selected projects. You won't be able to break into a government arbitration. If there is a nuclear project coming out of the selection that will be made by the government, you will have to bear the political responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u45	Mr. Nollet, before you speak on these issues, and without knowing the nature of the projects,...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u46	We're in line. I suggest we don't go around again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u47	Mr President, I shall add only one sentence. Without knowing the nature and quality of the projects, Mr. Nollet, you speak under your responsibility. If I were you, but you do what you want, I would wait until I know what the proposed projects are and what the government's choice is, instead of putting up the sauce and ringing the trumpets of the last judgment in advance, without knowing the exact scope of the file that the government and I will have in our hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u48	Minister, I am speaking in Parliament because I have the call for projects that you have launched. In it there is an axis 2 entitled "nuclear energy". It bears your signature. This is in clear and frontal contradiction to the commitments you have made here in Parliament. The very fact of choosing an axis 2 "nuclear energy" is already in itself a contradiction; we will see the selection finally chosen. We will definitely judge you at that time, but the interim judgment is without appeal; the 'nuclear energy' axis as you wrote in the call for proposals is in contradiction with what has been said here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u49	I recall that the reply is a member's view after the minister's or government's response. This does not imply agreement on its content. That's Mr. Nollet's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I understand that we will have to wait a while before we can outline the whole picture and see what has come in on which axis. Unlike my colleague, I am interested in the three axes. If you look at what is being put under the axes in that call, for example in the section of axis 2, then there are things in this field, whether one is for or against nuclear energy, where projects are possible, useful and necessary, projects that one has to do. There is even reference to the progressive exit from nuclear power in that part. There are indeed projects that we need to work with to ensure that we deal with nuclear waste in a sensible way, for example. We have world summits in this country and we must keep them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u51	Madam Minister, I would like to add to the discussion that the spokesperson of your cabinet stated that it was never intended to exclude nuclear from the fund. I am very curious about the list that we will get and whether this will have consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u52	Minister, can you describe the status of the position of Assistant Director General of ONDRAF? Is the position vacant? Since when? What problem does this pose in terms of respect for the linguistic balances provided for by law? What has been put in place to deal with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u53	Member, the position of Deputy Director General of ONDRAF has been vacant since June 1, 2017. Since neither the selection procedure, launched on 21 October 2016 – the date of publication of the call for applications to the Belgian Monitor – nor a head-hunting mission had led to the identification of candidates meeting all the minimum requirements for the function, the board of directors of the organisation decided, at its meeting on 15 December 2017, to terminate the selection procedure. During the same meeting, the management committee of ONDRAF was responsible for preparing a new selection procedure, trying to draw all the useful lessons from the findings, constraints and obstacles that had arisen during the first selection procedure which had failed to achieve its objective. These findings, constraints and obstacles relate in particular to the requirements in terms of the degree and experience required, the candidate's linguistic knowledge and the determination of the language role(s) authorized to participate in the selection. After an initial exchange of views during its meeting on 9 February, the Management Board was invited to resume its work on the job description and vacancy statement at its meeting on 16 March and to entrust the Management Committee with the implementation of tasks it considers useful. For this reason, an extraordinary ONDRAF board of directors devoted to the new linguistic framework and the selection of the Deputy Director General was held on 18 April. With regard to the new language framework, the ONDRAF Board of Directors approved an amendment to ensure that the first degree, limited to the Director General and the Deputy Director General, no longer provides for a bilingual framework. This proposal must then be the subject of appropriate consultation and transmission, in particular to the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control. This therefore avoids any problem in terms of compliance with language rules. As regards the selection of the Deputy Director General, the Board of Directors of ONDRAF agreed on the launch of the selection procedure and decided to publish the selection opinion. Meanwhile, the Secretary-General of ONDRAF shall assist the Director-General at the functional level in the prerogatives assigned to the Deputy Director-General.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u54	Minister, I take note of your answer. I will analyze it, the time being counted today. I could have replicated it in more depth, but I will do it later. In this way, I will be able to devote myself to the other issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u55	Mr President, I would like to postpone my question No 24027 so that I can ask my question No 24900, which I really want to ask today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u56	This point was raised in the order of business. We thought we'd exhausted all the questions today. This item is on the agenda. Madam Minister, Mr Nollet therefore asks that Question No 24027 be deferred.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u57	I can give my answer to this question in a very short time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u58	Madam Minister, the problem is that I would like to...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u59	Make up your mind, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u60	One point, minister: what time do we work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u61	We can work until 17.00 hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u62	In the meantime, we will not be able to deal with all the remaining points.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u63	And I proposed a new date for you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u64	May 23 p.m. Is that correct, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u65	Yes. It can be morning or afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u66	On May 15, it was not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u67	I proposed on the 15th. Ministers Peeters and Ducrame will be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u68	I agree that the questions that appear to be a priority should be raised. Mr. Nollet wants to ask a lot of questions. The other interrogators did not disagree with this idea. Item 7 would therefore be deferred. Do you have an objection, Mr. de Lamotte?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u69	Mr President, I have a question under point 8. Isn't it similar to Mr. Nollet's question? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u70	Mr. President, I am your decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u71	Madam Minister, La Libre Belgique of 4 April tells us that you have received a draft law from the CPN with the aim of consolidating the legal framework for nuclear provisions. Do you confirm that? What does this preliminary draft include? Were you present at the recent meeting between Ms. Kocher and your Prime Minister at which this project was discussed? Are you aware of what was exchanged at this meeting? Do you confirm that the following five points pose problems for ENGIE: the creation of new guarantees for each loan granted by Synatom to Electrabel; the obligation to inform the CPN before any change in the shareholding of Electrabel; the granting of a power of injunction (negative and positive) from the CPN (Commission on Nuclear Provisions) on Synatom; the removal of the suspensive nature of Synatom's appeals against the decisions of the CPN; the obligation to transmit quarterly reports on the use of money lent by Synatom to Electrabel? Are you going to follow these five NPC proposals or are you going to change them as a result of the criticisms made by ENGIE? Have you abandoned the idea of making ENGIE the guarantor of nuclear supplies instead of Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u72	Unless I am mistaken, I have already had the opportunity to speak to you on this subject as early as 7 March last, in the Committee on the Economy, in the context of the answers to questions No 23166, No 23687, No 23706 of Mr President. of Lamotte and Nollet. It was long before April 4th and the publication of the press article to which you refer, it seems to me. I have informed you that I have received the opinion of the Committee on Nuclear Supplies concerning a proposal to amend the Act of 11 April 2003 to consolidate or improve the legal framework. I told you that, I quote: "With a view to ensuring even better the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions to cover all the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing spent fuel, in 2017 and early 2018 the Commission on Nuclear Supplies drew up a proposal, as I had requested, to amend the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants. This committee has recently transmitted its conclusions to me and I have just started examining them. After that, of course, I will report back to the government, which will decide on the direction to be taken by the analysis and the content of the proposal made to me by the Nuclear Supplies Commission." I would then add that this would probably turn into a bill, which I will discuss with you when the government itself has conducted this review and made a decision that will allow it to table the proposed bill in the Council of State. This draft will be submitted to the government after the Council of State, possibly for a second reading and then to Parliament. This is the course I had mentioned and which is quite normal. This opinion, which aims to strengthen the existing legal framework and the powers of the Commission for Nuclear Supplies to give advice and monitor the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions, is under consideration in my office. The Commission also informed me that the operator had commented and commented on its work. As far as I am concerned, I am of course entirely in favour, if not more so, of the Belgian State taking the various appropriate measures, in particular by improving the legal framework in order to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available at the appropriate time to cover the costs of dismantling nuclear reactors and to cover the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. As I have told you and I repeat, I intend to report back to the government that will decide what direction the analysis and content of the NPC proposal should take. With regard to your questions about a meeting between Mrs Kocher and the Prime Minister, I can only point out that the latter meets a great deal of actors, a fortiori in discussions on the Energy Pact, which is called the federal energy strategy. During these contacts, many topics are discussed. Of course, I am in close contact with the Prime Minister. Our line is always basically the same: affordable energy that meets our climate commitments with a guarantee in terms of security of supply. In this context, neither Electrabel nor ENGIE dictate government policy in any way. On the basis of the information you have heard and the existence or otherwise of this meeting, I cannot answer you. I therefore urge you to ask the Prime Minister about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u73	Minister, I regret that you are not more specific about the direction of the project, but also about your own direction. I have mentioned five very specific elements which are found in the La Libre article, published after your reply to Parliament, but which is above all more precise than your reply to Parliament. If the debate has to go through media each time, it will be conducted but I would have listened with great interest to your position on each of these five elements cited by La Libre as proposals of the CPN. You're telling us it'll be for later. Meanwhile the debate has arrived in the public square and I will therefore be forced to return to you regularly when these elements are discussed elsewhere. I note that you do not want to talk about this in Parliament at this stage. I regret this because, in order to have a real debate on such fundamental issues, it is also within Parliament that we must be able to discuss these elements upstream. As far as I am concerned, and in order to position myself on the various proposals, I consider that it is a minimum base which is absolutely necessary and which is, above all, urgent in order to strengthen our legislative framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u74	Mr President, Madam Minister, I learned, via an article from L'Echo dated February 16, 2018 that Synatom, AG lnsurance and the federal government via SPFI (Federal Society of Participation and Investment) were working on the creation of a fund to invest in "infrastructures". The principle would be to provide the latter with an amount of EUR 150 million, financed equally by the above-mentioned partners. While I consider it appropriate to mobilise some of the nuclear provisions for future investment, I nevertheless want to make sure that they are risk-free investments. In addition, it would seem fair to me that these funds finance primarily investments intended to accompany the energy transition. I therefore ask you whether you can confirm this information and, if so, tell me more about the destination of these investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u75	Member of the European Parliament, you have read various elements in the press on 16 February 2018. The Prime Minister himself has already mentioned some elements of this infrastructure fund during the Foreign Affairs Committee on 21 February, on the National Strategic Investment Plan. In particular, he stated that "initiatives were taken by the SFPI, that certain press reports were incomplete, that work should continue and that discussions were still ongoing." I invite you to re-read the minutes of this meeting as well as to interview the Minister responsible for the FPS in order to have more details on this aspect. According to the 16 February 2018 press, several parties intend to create a fund to invest in infrastructure. It is also possible that other organizations will join this initiative; Synatom has indicated its willingness to participate. Nevertheless, as mentioned above, work is currently only at the level of intentions and must continue. A concrete and comprehensive proposal will have to be drawn up by Synatom, submitted to its Management Board and, indirectly, for opinion to the Commission on Nuclear Supplies. Everyone must play their part and must ensure that the proposal is in line with the missions and above all with the primary responsibilities of Synatom as a nuclear supply company, primarily responsible for having available, sufficient and available supplies. I cannot overemphasize this point. Clearly, if the country's objectives for the adequacy of provisions for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants are to be met, it is of course important that a prudential risk assessment be carried out. Other factors to be taken into account include the verification of the appropriate diversification of investments, the guarantee of an investment outside the companies of the ownership groups of the power plants, the absence of circumvention of regulatory control provided for by law, the compatibility of the investment horizon with the need for liquidity, and the conditions under which such investments are made. In this context, I would like to point out that the European Commission Recommendation 2006/851/Euratom of 24 October 2006 on the management of financial resources for the dismantling of nuclear installations, spent fuels and radioactive waste states in point 16 that low-risk investments should be chosen, ensuring a positive income at all times. The guide to recommendation 16 further clarifies. This also contributes to the objectives of adequacy of provisions. Without more detailed information at this stage on this project, you will understand that I cannot tell you any more about this first part of the question. According to Synatom, the reasons for investing in this infrastructure fund would be: - firstly, its complementarity with other asset classes in which it currently invests, diversification to optimize the overall portfolio yield-risk ratio, which is weakly correlated with stock markets; - second, the long-term over-performance of all other asset classes by private equity; - and thirdly, the character of the socially responsible or citizen investment of private equity through its support for the development of infrastructure projects in Belgium or Europe. According to Synatom, the investments that would be taken into account would overlap with those of the National Strategic Investment Plan (mobility, digital, energy, safety and health). The sectors concerned can therefore be mobility and transport, electricity and gas networks, sanitation, water treatment and distribution, renewable energy, digital energy, smartcities and telecommunications networks, social infrastructure (schools, universities, hospitals, prisons), heat and cooling networks. That's all I can tell you at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u76	Mr President, I take note of the Minister's answer. When we talk about this investment pact, we will come back to how to finance it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u77	Mr Nollet, we come to your question No 24290 on "Electrabel's financial results".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u78	Mr President, I would like to replace it with Question No 24780.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u79	Mr President, I would like to understand what "replace" means. Will the questions replaced be asked at another time? If so, I will send the written answer to Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u80	The idea is to deal on 23 May with the questions that have not been asked today. But Members can always choose to turn an oral question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u81	Here, we are not part of this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u82	Minister, not all issues will be able to be dealt with today. Mr. Nollet therefore requested that he be able to ask the questions which he felt were the most urgent. There are no questions attached here. I therefore propose to continue our work until 17.00 hours. Questions that could not have been asked will be included in the agenda of 23 May. But as Mr Senesael did, questions can still be postponed. Members are always able to turn their question(s) into written question(s).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u83	Mr President, if the minister wishes to send me her answer, I do not mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u84	You can turn your question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u85	No. The minister can send me her answer. I shall take note of the latter and, if necessary, I shall ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u86	No. We'll do something different. In this way, your balance sheet will be more interesting. It's smarter to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u87	[[It's as you wish.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u88	The legislative working group (LWG) set up in 2014 to address the many loopholes in the nuclear legislation has been the subject of many questions on my part, as its delays are incomprehensible in terms of the issues it must address. During our last exchange, you announced that the interim report of this LWG was to arrive at you during the course of March so that you could determine the priorities in the future. I therefore come back to you to receive a copy of this report, to hear you present the conclusions and recommendations and to tell us what priorities you have chosen and how they will be worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u89	My administration has informed me that the following three themes have been identified. First, a reflection on the establishment of a legal framework for provisioning for operators or similar companies not covered by the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants. The objective would be to put in place the necessary mechanisms to avoid nuclear liabilities for nuclear operators other than nuclear operators of nuclear power plants and companies with a share in electricity generation. Secondly, to study the situation of voluntary or involuntary cessation of nuclear activity. The legislative working group intends to address the case of large Class 1 producers but to begin with Class 2, 3 and 4 operators. Thirdly, work on the establishment of a coordinated law on the management of radioactive waste. The working group would like to work towards the establishment of a coordinated law on the management of such waste and is considering the use of external legal advice to identify the best method of establishing such a coordinated law. It wishes to work on the basis of international good practice, on a structure for this future coordinated law. This is the status of the file that my administration has provided me with regarding the priorities that the OWG wishes to implement. This should make it possible to move forward in directions complementary to those of the IRRS (Institute of Health and Society Research) working group between ONDRAF and AFCN and proposals put forward by the CPN.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u90	Minister, thank you for the details of the LWG proposals, but have you validated them? Have they become yours or are they just those of the LWG?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u91	These are the priorities of the LWG.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u92	Thank you. I will therefore ask you again next time to know yours and what your timetable will be on this subject. At this point, if I hear your answer correctly, it is only the priorities that the LWG has proposed to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u93	Mr President, I wish to replace my questions Nos 24291 and 24901 with my question No 252.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u94	It makes quite sense, because questioning takes precedence over questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u95	ONDRAF has released its fourth five-year report on the inventory of nuclear liabilities covering the period 2013-2017. On reading this text, we find that the costs are exploding and that the provisions are not sufficiently available. I would like to ask the minister about the following elements of the report: - an increase of 25 % in the bill for nuclear waste, now to 15.1 billion; - the insistence of ONDRAF that these new amounts do not cover the many remaining uncertainties with regard to the costing of the geological repository and therefore give an overly optimistic view of the sufficiency of nuclear costs (p. 45 of the report); - the use of unrealistic assumptions: for example, 200 metres of depth, 40 years of operation, etc. (p. 38). I would also like to take stock of various elements. First, on the timetable for follow-up of the many important recommendations not followed in the previous report, 2008-2012, and reiterated with amplification in the new report: "Accounting provisions versus availability when they are paid into a fund?", "Who if Electrabel loses its status as an operator?", "What if private companies cease to operate?", "Reduction of the percentage of provisions which may be lent internally to farmers", "Instruction of a general obligation to provide sufficient provisions". And I'm passing... Secondly, what about the follow-up to be given to the following recommendations (p. 54): "provide a detailed estimate of costs in case of delayed dismantling", "analyse the risk of additional costs due to delay"? Third, could you explain that margins of uncertainty may well not cover costs, particularly for the storage project (p. 245)? Could you clarify what you are doing with this observation submitted by ONDRAF? Fourthly, has the fear of the chairman of the Nuclear Supply Commission (NPC) not having the data in time for next year's triennial review (this is in the Echo of 13 March) led you to take one or the other step?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u96	Mr President, my answer will be very simple: this document is still being analysed by Kris Peeters with whom we are co-competent, and so we cannot yet respond to your inquiry as it is a fairly voluminous document which we must look at together in order to give you a precise and correct answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u97	Minister, I understand that you need to take the time to analyze these documents. I regret, however, that we are wasting time when certain things are urgent. The ones I pointed out do not cover the whole report, of course. I pointed them out as urgent. This is an inquiry and your answer is, to say the least, laconic since it postpones the answer to later. I will come back to this on 23 May and I hope that by that date you will have had time to read and consult in order to be able to answer me. The inquiry will not be different from this one and I hope that you will at least be able to answer me on these specific points on 23 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u98	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is well known that the presence of nuclear installations is of great concern to the municipalities concerned. I have already had the opportunity to ask you about this with regard to Huy and Beveren. I would like to ask you today about Mol and Dessel and, in particular, about the reception of nuclear waste. Minister, can you give me a detailed account of the height and nature of each of the financial and non-financial aid granted to the municipalities of Mol and Dessel for all matters relating to the reception of nuclear installations and projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u99	Mr President, one of the conditions for the disposal of category A waste in Dessel-Mol was also to ensure that there were sufficient benefits for the local community. There has been a broad trajectory with those local communities. The necessary support has indeed been created. In order to channel these benefits, a Local Fund has been set up. This will not be fully paid up until the authorisation has been completed. It must last for 300 years. In view of the fact that the Fund was established two years ago and that the application for authorisation is currently pending, it is appropriate to examine the situation of the Local Fund. What steps have been taken to develop the fund in order to operate from the collapse? An advance of EUR 1 million has already been paid into the Local Fund. What activities are being developed with this budget? What is the further timing of the fund's development?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u100	Mr President, Members of the House, like any industry, an installation gives a municipality both advantages and disadvantages. You're just talking about the troubles. It may also be useful to talk about jobs, the activity induced for a network of SMEs, the positive effects in the scientific and medical field at national and international level, but which are also of course for the citizens of that municipality. You're talking about Mol and Dessel. Even if you are looking for nuclear waste, I would not forget – if I were in your place – that the SCK-CEN, a world-class research centre – is located in Mol and that a Joint Research Center (JRC) of the European Union, the Institute for Reference Materials and Measurements (IRMM) is located nearby, namely in Geel. I find it useful to think of these thousands of jobs as well. To get to your question, I assume that you are thinking in particular about the provisions of ONDRAF law relating to the medium-term fund and the local development fund. My answer will also include several elements to Mr Wollants' questions. The Act of 29 December 2010 amending article 179 of the Act of 8 August 1980 on budgetary proposals 1979-1980, known as ONDRAF, provides for the creation of a medium-term fund to cover the costs incurred, with a view to creating and maintaining the necessary societal base for the integration of a radioactive waste storage facility into a local community. The surface storage facility in Dessel will house all low- and medium-activity and short-lived Belgian waste. The local communities of Dessel and Mol have subjected the acceptance of the storage facility in their respective municipalities to several conditions known as "associated conditions". These conditions covered safety, environment and health, funding, employment, consultation and participation and knowledge management. The partners had also called for the creation of a fund benefiting the inhabitants of the communes of Dessel and Mol, het Fonds Lokale Ontwikkeling or the local development fund. This is also noted in a large number of countries that have established or are in the process of developing storage facilities of this type. As far as the medium-term fund is concerned, it is financed by the integration levy from the producers of radioactive waste. The integration levy shall be calculated on the basis of the total capacity of the deposit and the total quantities of waste of the producers to be deposited there. In accordance with the above-mentioned legal provisions, the obligation to contribute to the medium-term fund begins "as soon as the final disposal facility for radioactive waste has been subject to a definitive and enforceable creation permit as well as an environmental permit". A royal decree is still to be made to ensure the implementation of the above-mentioned provisions of the Act of 29 December 2010 which have not yet been implemented by the Royal Decree of 3 July 2012 amending the Royal Decree of 30 March 1981. As soon as the creation permit and the environmental permit for surface storage in Dessel have been granted, ONDRAF will propose to have the Royal Decree implementing the provisions of the Act of 29 December 2010 which have not yet been implemented by the Royal Decree of 3 July 2012. It should be noted that this authorisation has not yet been granted. As a reminder, ONDRAF submitted its application for authorisation on 31 January 2013 and the file is still under investigation. The total amount of the medium-term fund to be drawn up by way of integration contribution was set at 130 million euros by the Royal Decree of 3 July 2012. With regard to the development fund, the Act of 29 December 2010, which amended article 179 of the Act of 8 August 1980, specifies that the agency, in the framework of its activities to create and maintain the necessary societal foundation for the integration of a radioactive waste storage facility, has the specific competence to create a fund with legal personality called "local funds", with the aim of creating a sustainable added value for a local community.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u101	The Local Fund was set up by the NIRAS in the form of a private foundation which, in so far as it is not exempted, is subject to the law of 27 June 1921 on non-profit-making associations, non-profit-making international associations and foundations. The instrument of incorporation is past on 3 June 2016 and was deposited with the Registry of the Court of Commerce in Turnhout on 7 June 2016, together with the statutes approved by the Management Board of the NIRAS. Since its creation, the members of the executive committees of Dessel and Mol have been appointed. The Foundation's governance documents shall be prepared in preparation for the start of operational operation. In accordance with the statutes, the rules governing the management of the Foundation's assets are laid down in the local fund. On the other hand, the detailed drafting of the management rules is included in specific implementing procedures currently being developed. The starting capital of the local fund has not yet been precisely defined, but it will be between €90 million and €110 million. The exact amount of the local fund will depend on the costs incurred under the other so-called "associated" conditions provided for in the law and to which I referred earlier. The local fund is therefore financed by part of the medium-term fund. Since the resources of the Local Fund will come from the medium-term fund and the authorisation has not yet been granted, the Local Fund has not yet been used. Finally, to be complete, it should be noted that the nuclear operators present are subject to a municipal tax. For Mol, it's based on cubic meters of waste and cubic meters of dismantled buildings. For Dessel, it is based on the storage sites of conditioned radioactive waste and the dismantling facilities. In 2017, Belgoprocess paid the following taxes: 602,776,000 euros for the municipality of Mol and 1,829,161,000 euros for the municipality of Dessel. In the same year, the SCK-CEN paid a tax of around 90,000 euros to the municipality of Mol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u102	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u103	Minister, I will take the time to analyze your answer. I will come back with a supplement if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u104	Madam Minister, it is true that we have to take into account the high level of employment in the nuclear sector in the region, which also gives rise to the greater support that has been given there. All these elements have played a part: the people of Mol and Dessel knew very well what was happening there, because they are much better informed about what is being stored. In this way, the whole process is, of course, created through MONA and STORA, which means that people do not think that everything is bad, dirty and dirty, but that it is a high-tech sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u105	Minister, do you confirm that the federal government finally approved the Energy Pact on March 30th? Is the extension of nuclear power stations still an option, as Minister Jambon suggested at the end of the meeting? Can you tell us whether any changes have been made to the text of the draft Covenant as tabled by the four energy ministers? If so, can you clearly identify each of these changes? Is the text of the four ministers – along with its three pages of annexes – still valid as such or has it evolved? At the very least, the press speaks of a major difference. What about it? Will the Act of 31 January 2003 be amended?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u106	Madam Secretary, on Friday 30 March, the federal government reached an agreement on the Energy Pact. Firstly, if I am correct, it is still the text of the Energy Pact of December and the slides that were distributed at federal level are 'additional conditions' to approve the Pact. Is that correct, or are the slides just an annex to the Energy Pact? Secondly, the French and Dutch texts in the slides do differ. For the Flemings, the government approves the agreement "subject to" the elements described and the French text states "taking into account." That's different. I would like to be clear about that. Thirdly, a federal energy strategy is mentioned in the slides. Can we understand this strategy as the whole of the Energy Pact of December, the March slides, the key exit calendar and the 2013 strategic long-term vision of sustainable development, or is one of those documents not part of it and another is?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u107	Madam Minister, my question concerns only one part of the federal energy strategy, namely the capacity compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u108	I would like to say that Mrs Dierick is asking a question about the mechanism of capacity remuneration. There are a number of questions on the same subject on the agenda. Would these questions not be grouped together?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u109	Yes, that's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u110	I have noticed this by reading and analysing the file and therefore I think it would be better to group the questions together in order to avoid repetition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u111	What question does my question refer to? [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u112	As long as we are there, I propose to attract question No 24907 directly after it, according to a good case-law of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u113	Minister, on March 30, the government reached a long-awaited agreement on the federal energy strategy. It has four objectives: to ensure security of supply, to comply with climate agreements, to maintain an affordable cost of electricity and to maintain the safety of nuclear power plants. The strategy implements a range of measures, including the creation of a federal energy committee responsible for monitoring and ensuring the implementation of these objectives, the introduction of an energy standard, the establishment of a mechanism for listing and the development of a National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC). With regard to the establishment of a federal energy committee, would you have any information on its composition, except that we know that it will be representatives of the federal government, the Regions, employers and industry, as well as on its functioning, its entry into office and its competences? As regards the introduction of a capacity compensation mechanism, it will be used to pay for power plants on the electricity market which will provide an additional capacity of 5 GW for the period 2023-2025. Significant investments will therefore be needed in interconnections, flexibility and demand management. The importance of such a mechanism has already been stressed on several occasions. It will ensure a strong and reliable electrical system that will ensure our security of supply. What is the status of the work on the establishment of this mechanism? Can you give us an estimate of the investments needed? Finally, the energy strategy envisages the development of a National Energy-Climate Plan with the federated entities. Can you provide us with an update on the process of developing this plan? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u114	I did not recall that your question dealt with several themes. There is the theme of the energy pact, the format, the text. There is the capacity mechanism where a series of questions from Ms. Dierick are asked and you ask the same question, just like Mr. de Lamotte. This will be discussed at the same time as Question No 24907 by Mr Nollet and Question No 25024 by Mrs Temmerman. Then there's the monitoring committee. There are also questions. This is the third part of the question. Finally, there is the National Energy-Climate Plan on which we have already exchanged abundantly. I refer you to our previous discussions on this. I will start with the text of the energy vision of the four energy ministers. This is an unalterable whole that has been maintained as such in our discussions at the federal government level for its adoption by this government. This document, which is an unalterable whole, is attached to the federal document, which was referred to by Ms. Temmerman and which was presented through various slides at the end of the government meeting that adopted the federal energy strategy. This paper, presented in slide form on March 30, and annexed to it, the four ministers' energy vision document together form the adoption of the Vision by the federal government, developed by the four energy ministers, and the federal strategy in this framework. You share with me nuances of vocabulary from one language to another, on the slides in French and Dutch: "taking into account" and "provided that", it is the same, if only "provided that" is stronger, but it is the same kind of idea. If you have to "take into account" something... but yes, Mrs. Temmerman! It's my tongue, I know it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u115	It's your language, but Dutch is my language. If we say "op voorwaarde van", that means we need these elements, otherwise it doesn't pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u116	Mrs. Temmerman, you're not listening to what I'm saying. I'm telling you. It's the same idea, for me, with an extra shade in "on the condition that". You don't know how to impose a condition that you don't take into account. I do not see very well how you do: if a condition exists, it must be taken into account, there is nothing to do. I therefore repeat that this is the same idea, in two different languages, with different nuances, knowing well that "provided that" is a stronger shade. It also means that one without the other does not exist and that the federal government will behave as part of the realization of the vision of the four energy ministers, on the basis of the four criteria and the development of these criteria in the document that you saw appearing at the end of the federal government's decision on 30 March, to implement its part of the Energy Vision developed by the four ministers. That's all. This is a whole, and this is the federal designer, the concretizer. The federal government has not decided for the others and does not have to do so. The federal government could not express its approach to adopting and concretizing a document involving competencies that do not fall within its level. We will not, of course, in the realization of the energy vision of the four ministers, as a federal level, translate into regional divisions of competence. We will only work on federal-owned skills, namely, security of supply, plant safety, climate commitments and pricing, which is part of the great reflection on the energy standard. In the energy standard, we will have to work with the Regions since part of the energy cost is essentially and exclusively the responsibility of the regional authorities. Consequently, we will obtain a text, in this context, which will be the result of cooperation and exchanges or aggregation between levels of power. That is why I have made it clear that the competitiveness barometer must be an element in allowing the other levels of power to agree on a tool capable of defining the Belgian energy standard. In the energy cost assessment, there are federal and regional materials.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u117	Minister, I'm not sure I understood everything. I'll try to say it with my words. I'm taking risks. I bought the Marghem-Marghem dictionary, which allows you to understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u118	I don't know how you did it because it's not published yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u119	I got your law firm's version minus one. You remember, we had this and you just withdrew the conclusion. But it doesn't matter. You have a text adopted by the four ministers. You don't change a comma.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u120	I can't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u121	Besides, you can't! A text adopted by the four ministers, you do not change it. In addition to this, the federal government, for its part, has adopted a document making operational the dimensions that concern it. For the federal government, this is one and the same. And this part is currently only available in the form of slides and not in the form of texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u122	There is a text forming part of the notification that follows the Council of Ministers during which this federal transition strategy was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u123	Could we have that text?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u124	This text is the one you saw. He's not more nourished than the slides. It is all the timetable and timing commitments that have been planned and which we have already mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u125	J'entends bien.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u126	I understand what you mean. The slides exist in the form of text and this text contains the timing of realization, realization, operationalization by the federal, as you understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u127	Can we have this text, since we have the slides?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u128	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u129	I still have one dimension, that of the annexes. Is there, either in the text that translates the slides into "Marghem-Marghem" or in the text of all four ministers, an annex? I am told that in one of the two documents there is a three-page appendix. Can we get this annex?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u130	I don't see exactly what annex you're talking about or to which you're referring? I find that I don't have the right document. My collaborator will send you the text that is a copy of the slide. I'll check it out, but for me there's only one thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u131	I take note that we will receive the whole, together with the annex, if it exists. We can judge at all. This seems to me the best solution. This will allow us to be more clear. We're here regluing pieces on something that's not obvious. I note, Madam Minister, that there is no amendment to the 2003 Act. In no way will the 2003 Act be amended in connection with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u132	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u133	Madam Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u134	Madam Minister, despite the explanation, including Mr Nollet's, it is still not quite clear to me. I assume that the Dutch text is 'on condition', which of course is a different interpretation. I am already very pleased that you confirm that the vision is not to change anything to the law on the core exit. We will see how the implementation of this federal energy strategy continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u135	Mr Wollants, do you still wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u136	Mr President, I have not yet asked my question. I will first ask my question and then reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u137	Madam Minister, during our last discussion on the subject on 23 January, you were unable to respond to the timing specified in the call for tenders for tier 2, namely that which aims to prepare all the documents relating to the implementation of a mechanism adapted to the Belgian context. You made a commitment to ask the question and give me the answer. Having still received nothing, neither from you nor from your collaborator, I come back to you in the hope of having a precise answer to this question. I recall the Commission's recent decisions on this matter: the Italian and Polish market-wide capacity mechanisms, following previous decisions for Great Britain, Ireland and Northern Ireland. In the case of France and Greece, the Commission has authorised market mechanisms specifically encouraging the erasure of demand. I assume that all these mechanisms, which I have just mentioned, will help you to put into practice what is possible and what is not. May I know the conclusion you draw from these various decisions, on which the Commission, in particular, communicated on 7 February? What is the status of our own capacity compensation mechanism? Do you confirm that you are required to table a draft bill in the Council of Ministers by 31 May 2018 at the latest? If so, is this project a fair reflection of what we found this morning in the newspaper Le Soir, which evokes the idea of a grant fair to attract investors? I do not repeat the whole of this article; you certainly see what I am referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u138	Mr President, Minister, according to the slides to the Energy Pact, which we mentioned earlier, there will be a preliminary draft law on the capacity mechanism by 31 May 2018. I had the following questions. In the last hearings on the Energy Pact, PwC presented his study. We have received the slides, but can we have the study ourselves so that there can be no misunderstanding? This seems interesting to me to compare a number of things. Roger Miesen of RWE stated in Trends of April 2018 that a capacity mechanism is not necessary for new gas plants. Energyville also questioned a mechanism for new power stations. One assumes, of course, that there will be a complete nuclear exit in 2025. Everyone agrees that otherwise we will pay the gas plants, both old and new, dearly. Is the capacity mechanism only available for the old or also for new gas plants? Finally, what is the further procedure for the establishment of the law? Which stakeholders will be seen? What studies are still to be completed? When will Parliament receive preparatory documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u139	Mr President, Minister, I will be very brief in the hope that we can all get an answer before 5 p.m. We all know that there is a very strict timing to develop, implement and notify a mechanism to the European Commission. I would have liked to know what steps have already been taken to arrive at a preliminary draft. Who's been contacted? What steps still need to be taken? Can you also explain what this mechanism should look like? What criteria will be laid down in advance? What installations can this all apply to? Both the old ones and the new ones? I would also like to know whether talks have already started with the European Commission. If not, why not? When will they be effectively launched? What's the planning on this? Finally, there is a deadline: by 31 May, a preliminary draft will have to be submitted to the Council of Ministers. This is an important deadline, but when do you want to implement the mechanism effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u140	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, the questions are a bit of a jump. On 30 March, the federal government approved the Energy Pact and set ambitious deadlines for reforming the Belgian energy landscape. I would like to go back to two elements contained in the presentation of this energy strategy published by the Council of Ministers. We spoke earlier about the energy standard, so I will move on to this paragraph. As regards the capacity remuneration mechanism, a preliminary draft law will be submitted to the Council of Ministers by 31 May 2018. With respect to this capability compensation mechanism, during his presentation on March 14, the PwC consultant told us that the mechanism you prefer is that of reliability options. Nevertheless, the same consultant also indicated that the establishment of this mechanism may take several years, in particular because it requires agreement from the European Commission and consultation with interconnected countries, and is subject to recourse by certain economic actors. Madam Minister, apart from the draft bill referred to in the presentation to the Council of Ministers, can you give us the rest of your timetable for the implementation of this mechanism? Have you already taken any steps with the European Commission, neighbouring countries and relevant economic actors? If so, what are they? Will the system be operational before the end of the legislature? More cross-cuttingly, the different deadlines you set yourself are rather ambitious. Will the legislative work be carried out in full by your administration or have you partially outsourced it? If so, with whom? I would also like to return to some of today's press articles. Does the scenario referred to in these articles have your preference?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u141	Madam Minister, in the hearing with PwC, which also covered the capacity compensation mechanism, PwC said that this must be a well-thought-out system which integrates many elements and must also be integrated into the systems of our neighbouring countries. That is also what is included in the coalition agreement. At the same time, the question arises as to whether the mere capacity fee, as it has emerged, is sufficient to enable the necessary investments to be made through a technology-neutral system to ensure electricity production by 2025. A number of questions follow from this. Firstly, what concept of capacity compensation do you wish to examine? Will this be a system for existing and new capacity? Secondly, what discussions have already been held with the neighbouring countries with regard to such a system, in view of the warnings from PwC? Thirdly, what steps will you take in this respect towards the European Commission? Have any agreements been made on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Act of 31 January 2003 on the progressive release of nuclear power for industrial electricity production requires additional measures to ensure a sound and reliable electrical system beyond 2025. In addition to investments in interconnections, flexibility and demand management, there is – as you recalled – a need for new capacity. On this basis, a preliminary draft law will be submitted to the Council of Ministers by 31 May 2018 and will be immediately notified to the European Commission for approval. A public procurement – I recall what I have already said, but I think it is useful to do so – was launched by DG Energy in order to determine the mechanism for paying the most suitable capacity for Belgium. This contract was awarded to the PwC consultant (ext. 1) and to the law firm Janson Baugniet (ext. 2) on 30 October 2017. Item 1 was closed on 9 March. The conclusion of the work is that the mechanism best suited to the Belgian context is the CRM (Capacity Remuneration Mechanism) based on the principle of reliability options (RO). This scheme pays participants on a regular and certain basis according to the capacity they guarantee, which in turn gives up the possibility of taking advantage of high prices (windfall profits) in the event of a shortage of electricity. Item 2 to draft the legislative package for the implementation of the mechanism identified in Item 1 began on 29 March. The agreement of Kern before Easter on the Energy Pact mentions on 31 May for the introduction of a preliminary bill. This was confirmed by the Council of Ministers on 20 April. Further studies will be conducted by July by PwC, in particular to clarify the methodology for determining the parameters required by the mechanism. Inter-cabinet meetings are also planned in order to set certain necessary political choices (Does there need to be an early auction or not? Should there be the participation or non-participation of renewable technologies? What are the methods of funding?) and to validate the main principles of the mechanism, as well as to determine responsibilities and competences. It is on this basis that the preliminary draft will be submitted to the Council of Ministers by 31 May 2018 and immediately notified to the European Commission. As a specific answer to Mr de Lamotte's question, it appears from the unanimous opinion of the various actors that the implementation of a CRM could take several years. Therefore, this preliminary draft provides for the possibility of initiating the implementation of CRM in a proactive manner, i.e. no later than early 2020, to take into account the time required for the construction of new capacities, with the overall CRM to be implemented for 2025, all technologies combined. CRM will address all technologies that will help to ensure security, i.e. new and existing capacity, including demand management, storage and interconnections. Mrs Temmerman, I would remind you that we sent the PwC document to the chairman of this committee on 14 March at 4.06 p.m. I'm surprised you haven't had it in your possession since then. Mr. Secretary confirms to me that the study is 80 pages long and that we have transmitted it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u143	They're slides.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u144	No. Arrange with the secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u145	I don't think I got an answer to my second question. I shall reread it in French and perhaps ask the question again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u146	Madam Minister, if the CRM does not resolve the perceived lack of investment in the new production lines, it has been mentioned that the Federal Investment and Participation Corporation and regional investment companies can build new electricity generation facilities to ensure security of supply. What process will be adopted? Will this be a call for tenders and will it also have to be accepted by the Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u147	This is a new sub-question you're asking me. I explained in my answer that the aim was to have a basic text that answered major questions of principle. These major questions of principle will provide the legal basis for anticipating the implementation in our legislative arsenal of a CRM, which will have to be completed by 2025 at the latest. The aim is to be able to already have this fundamental basis to discuss with the Commission, in which this substantive question will be raised. When the text has been tabled in the Council of Ministers, I can tell you more about it because, for the time being, it is working in IKW, as I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic881x.u148	I agree with what Mrs Dierick said.
