ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u1	Question No 26577 by Mrs Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u2	Minister, I come back to you regarding the quality of service within bpost, in particular the shift of the factor, which is an integral part of public service to our citizens. We auditioned Mr. Van Gerven in June in committee, but the information I'm going to give you here comes from an interview he gave to L'Echo in August. I quote: "The customer tells us that paper mail is no longer a priority for urgent communication. He can live with a mail that arrives not the next day but two or three days later." The CEO of bpost therefore proposes to end the daily passage of the factor. It proposes a distribution of the mail with two or even three days late. He adds, I quote: "bpost will continue to offer a distribution in J+1 for customers who want it". Minister, at the beginning of the year, we discussed the new postal law with you. On this occasion, we stressed the importance of the daily passage of the factor and the importance of this service, which must be qualitative for all our citizens, regardless of the inhabited areas. Mr Van Gerven states that the customer says that paper mail is no longer a priority for urgent communication. Where does this information come from? Have any satisfaction surveys been conducted by bpost or by the IBPT? Could we have access to these investigations? On the basis of what objective criteria are we going to decide not to assign a factor every day to an area? Will that be the number of mails? If so, what will be the critical threshold? What about urgent mail? Do you confirm that the daily passage of the factor will be well guaranteed in the next management contract, as you said in committee during the debates on the postal law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u3	Minister, in the new management contract approved by the Council of Ministers on 19 October, bpost again gets the right to charge more to distribute the mail the day after the mailing. Normal letters may be issued three days after dispatch. As a reminder, the PRIOR system was abandoned in 2007 with an increase in prices: all the mails became PRIOR. This reintroduction of the PRIOR system leads to a further increase in prices. For the same price - normal stamps - users will get a lower quality service. Yet the price of stamps has been increased several times under this legislature. The current management contract determines that bpost must always distribute mail five times a week. However, a new procedure provided for in the management contract would allow bpost to charge the additional costs of universal service to the State and, in such a case, would also allow the latter to amend the terms of service. If most people opt for J+3 mail, bpost may argue that daily deliveries are an extra cost. As a minister, you may decide to revise this requirement. This will result in a deterioration of the service to users and a reduction in the number of factors involved. Minister, what are the rates proposed to the IBPT per bpost in the new system, both for normal deliveries and for PRIOR deliveries? Will this have consequences for the staff of the sorting centres? Why does the government accept a deterioration in the postal service, the result of which will be only an increase in bpost profits? Can you guarantee that this price differentiation does not amount to a technique designed to reduce the distribution of mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u4	Mr Minister, on 26 September last, Echo published an article on the proposed new European Postal Directive. Many of the issues and options developed in the context of the revision of the directive seem to have already been decided in anticipation of the new postal law. Indeed, we have already dealt with the frequency and geographical coverage of distribution. The cdH group then fought against the possibility of geographical differentiation. At the last moment, the majority joined the position we were defending. However, the new postal law considers a decrease in volume as an exceptional circumstance, which may justify a reduction in the frequency of distribution. The directive should therefore not change anything on this point. The article also mentions the possibility of directing universal service to a target population (primarily those who do not have access to the Internet) or to some of the most fragile geographical areas. We want to ensure the provision of services in rural areas. Focusing the service on these areas/populations seems to me to be a better idea than excluding them. However, citizens throughout the country, including in cities, deserve universal service. Moreover, the geographical question remains linked to the financing of the universal service because, if the operator cannot make profits in urban areas to subsidize his activity in rural areas, the State should intervene in the costs. Mr Minister, will Belgian law and the postal law have to be adapted to the new directive in draft, given the current directions of this directive? What position does Belgium stand on the various debates, namely the targeting of universal service to a population/geography, the revision of the products included in the universal service (reduce to standard mail), competition (market dominance and access to the network of other operators) and the inclusion of logistics in the universal service, ahead of the directive? The Directive envisages the possibility of targeting universal service towards a population/geography. Will the directive impose or permit such discriminatory targeting? Thank you and I come to my second question. Minister, my colleagues have just spoken about this. The new postal law recognises that a decrease in frequency may be envisaged. The new bpost management contract would, however, provide for distribution at least five days a week until 1 December 2023. That's good news. Indeed, if a study by the IBPT shows that residential users are not necessarily attached to receiving their mail every day after explaining the issues and the cost, the quantitative part of the same study states that at first, they wish to maintain the current frequency of distribution by five days a week. The Belgians therefore remain attached to the delivery of their mail. We'll see what happens in 2023. Moreover, bpost plans to return to the old system of stamps J+1 (PRIOR) and other J +3 (non-PRIOR). This change in distribution time would be a way of smoothing the burden of sorting centres, reducing the number of tours and, indeed, reducing the frequency of distribution while allowing everyone to continue to potentially receive their mail every day. Any J+1 letter will be delivered the next day and if someone receives J+1 mail every day, they will continue to be delivered at this rate. If, on the other hand, there is no J+1 letter, the J+3 mail will wait 2 days to be delivered with the increased probability that it will be bundled with later J+1 mail. A study by the IBPT shows that people are happy with the J+3 as long as the J+1 (premium service) continues to exist in parallel. Just by doubling the distribution time, with a more expensive option and a less expensive one, to make sure that the mail is distributed every day nevertheless seems a little fair and, in fact, discriminating. This is indeed akin to a two-speed public service; a dual public service. I saw that the government approved the J+1 and J+3 on Friday. My questions are as follows: Does the management contract provide for clauses to derogate from the distribution obligation five days a week, for example in case of exceeding certain ceilings of universal service costs? What are the reasons and consequences of doubling the distribution time? What are the prices for J+1 and J+3 deliveries? Will the J+3 prices be lower than the current J+1 prices? How is this duplication of the proposed products regulated by the price control formula included in the new postal law? Is the J+1 and the J+3 not a form of two-speed public service? What impact will these changes in frequency and timing of distribution have on employment within bposts (in distribution centres and tours) and in what term? Can any negative impact be achieved through natural departures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u5	The draft adapted management contract, which was approved by the Council of Ministers last week, concerns the provision of universal postal service obligations during the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2023. It guarantees the distribution of mail five times a week throughout the country. I think this is an important element, it was included in all the questions. The delivery of mail, every day of the week and throughout the country, is guaranteed. With regard to delivery times and quality standards for the different services forming part of the universal service, the status quo is maintained in relation to the current obligations contained in the fifth management contract. According to the IBPT qualitative study on the prospects of consumers on the Belgian postal market and published on its website on 7 February 2018, J+1's routing data for regular correspondence does not seem to be an absolute necessity for postal users. Consumers are open to a less rapid standard service, provided that the distribution of priority mail is maintained, for example, in cases of death, birthday, birth or urgent administrative mail. The IBPT therefore advised me to reintroduce a non-PRIOR service in the interests of the consumer. In addition, bpost will be able to offer a J+3 service for non-priority shipments. This will allow them to be distributed three days after their introduction into the bpost network. The choice between a fast service and a non-priority service is, moreover, a common practice in many European countries. I would point out that bpost already offers these services to businesses and even to individuals during the end of the year, as evidenced by the Christmas stamp. On the one hand, the non-PRIOR service responds to the changing needs of users and, on the other, it allows bpost to manage correspondence flows more easily. We all know that there are serious problems at the moment in terms of the workload imposed on many factors. The measure in question is partly a response to this problem. In other words, contrary to what some have said, the goal is not to reduce the number of staff. Indeed, non-PRIOR mail can be handled outside peak periods and possible incidents, both in technical and mobility terms. In this way, bpost maintains a constant quality of services, while controlling costs, thus avoiding universal service being financed by the taxpayer. The non-PRIOR service is an additional option offered to individuals, in parallel with the existing J+1 service, which is responsible for the delivery of mail five days a week - which will be maintained and will remain accessible to all users, in accordance with the postal law, as confirmed by the new management contract. The rates for these services will be announced shortly, as they are subject to IBPT control. There is no impact on employment. On the contrary, e-commerce and the increase in the number of parcels have a positive impact on employment. Bpost continues to need postal workers and constantly recruits. We discussed in plenary last week the difficulties that bpost encounters in recruiting factors. At present, the universal service is always cost-effective and bpost has never requested compensation for the net cost of the universal service. However, it cannot be ignored that the decline in volume is accelerating. The mechanism provided for in the management contract will allow the situation to be closely monitored and bpost may propose to the government a modification of the legal obligations arising from the universal postal service. These proposals may require an adaptation of the current postal law. At that time, a political choice must then be made within the government taking into account the needs of users: either to maintain universal service obligations as such, even if it compensates the provider for the unfair burden that would result, or to make universal service obligations more flexible in order to maintain the economic viability of the universal service without public funding. We are not in this last situation at all at the moment, but if it were to happen, a decision in the Council of Ministers would have to be taken. No draft European Postal Directive is currently under way at European Commission level. Nevertheless, the Commission is preparing the work and carrying out studies taking into account the latest developments in the postal sector. National regulators, meeting within the European Regulators Group for Postal Services, are currently working on a report with a view to proposing to the new European Commission in 2019 ways of thinking and guidelines if the Commission decides to propose a new postal directive in 2020. It was too early to define an official position on a draft text that did not exist. We gave bpost the opportunity to guarantee a very modest postal cost in Belgium. According to a recent study by Deutsche Post, Belgium is, from a cost perspective, the 23rd among the 31 countries analysed (the 28 European Union countries as well as Norway, Iceland and Switzerland). Belgium therefore remains for the moment a country with relatively low postal prices. In fact, with this system, we can maintain this. It must still be understood that the average cost per household is 1.8 euro per month. It is a relatively low cost which, thanks to this differentiated system, can be maintained. People for whom delivery the next day is important will have to pay a little more. We have found that, for the majority of citizens, the delivery of a letter the next day is not an important element. This is an evolution observed in the expectations of the citizens. Since this is not important, I think it is entirely logical to maintain the current low price by using a differentiated system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u6	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer. I am obviously pleased to hear that you confirm that in the new management contract – of which, I imagine, we will be debating in committee – the five passages a week throughout the territory will be maintained. It's very important. It is essential for us in terms of the quality of public service that we must be able to offer our citizens. About the J+1 and J+3 system, I can actually hear some justifications and arguments. I think it will be important to evaluate it after six months or a year. We will come back to the outcome of this new distribution system, with regard to the workload for staff and the cost to our citizens. You insisted on that, and that is quite normal. We will, of course, be very attentive to the development of the situation in relation to this new system. The assurances you have given regarding the new management contract are important to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u7	Minister, thank you for these answers. You have not answered much of the first part of my questions in relation to the European directive. I wanted to know what room for manoeuvre we had regarding logistics etc. Maybe we can get back to it. I was also asked to turn one of my questions into a written question, which I was happy to do, because it called a number of statistics in response. On Friday, I learned that the government was maintaining the delivery of mail for five days and had opted for a PRIOR and non-PRIOR system. According to the statistics we know, it goes without saying that the population is actually less attached than before to these deadlines, but there is still the question of rural areas and the lack of internet coverage, as you know. This will be the subject of a later question, which will be intimately linked to it. It must objectively receive an answer. People are actually less attached to the fact that their mail is distributed to them every day at a neutral rate if, in return, they benefit from internet coverage. Therefore, the differentiation of geographical areas remains absolutely necessary for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u8	Mr President, a few years ago, at the beginning of your mandate, I asked you a number of questions about the impact of the switch-off plan on mobile telephony and the Internet. The answer was not so uplifting or reassuring, let me quote the answers of that time. "Telecommunication will be severely disrupted or impossible during the shutdown. There is limited autonomy for the mobile networks. Fixed telephony and the Internet will no longer function immediately, except Belgacom's analogue telephony, where the power supply comes from the power station, but this can only happen if the power station is still under power." "The emergency services in the switched-off areas will only be accessible via Belgacom's analogue telephone service for up to four hours and via mobile telephony for a maximum period of one to three hours, depending on the mobile operator and the traffic penalty after switching off the electricity." "In consultation with the sector, BIPT provides the electricity distributors with a list of base stations, asking them to give priority to this when switching on the power to minimise the unreachability of the emergency services. The reply received shows that no action can be taken." This was the state of play four years ago, at the beginning of this legislature. Now, four years later, the situation has actually got worse. In particular, only one nuclear power plant is operational. The power shortage threatens not only in January and February, but possibly earlier. The impact on the means of communication will therefore be felt. What's changed in the meantime? Are the operators better prepared for the shutdown? Is there better consultation between BIPT and electricity distributors to ensure maximum accessibility of emergency services? The European Network and Information Security Agency, Enisa, would develop a methodology for the critical infrastructure of the sector to identify electronic communications. What are the results of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u9	Thank you for this question. The BIPT carried out an impact analysis in 2014 for zones 7 and 8. Since 2014, operators have made the necessary investments to increase the autonomy of certain base stations located in zones 7 and 8, which can be switched off, in order to improve access to 112. In addition, various shutdown exercises have been carried out to improve operator response procedures. In 2017, an exercise was held in Zone 8, which showed that access to 112 was possible. In 2017, additional impact analyses were also carried out on the other zones. The results were communicated to the FPS Economy and the Crisis Centre at the end of 2017. There are about 20 places, spread over two zones, where the reachability of the number 112 falls away over time, as the batteries are not calculated on a three-hour cut-off time. Due to the very low risk of a shortage in winter and due to future changes to switching plans due to European obligations, the Steering Committee, with members Elia, Synergid, the FPS Economy, the Crisis Centre and the Federal Policy Cells of Energy, Home Affairs and Economy, decided that it was not necessary to ask operators to make additional investments to strengthen certain batteries. If it is too late to order additional batteries and install them in time, the FPS Economy is investigating whether certain masts in the identified areas can be delivered as a matter of priority during the switch-off to ensure the accessibility of 112 in those areas as well. As far as critical infrastructure is concerned, BIPT has contributed to the drafting of the Enisa document. The BIPT has based its identification of critical infrastructure in the telecoms sector on the approach described in that document. These critical infrastructures of the operators have emergency facilities, namely fuel generators, which can absorb the interruption of the power grid.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say the risk of this happening is very low. Let us make a nuance of this. When I look at the reports in committee, but also at other reports, I take the view that there is indeed a risk of a reduced supply of electricity in the coming weeks and months. Let's hope not, but that risk is not very low, that risk exists. In order to solve a problem, it is important to carry out the risk analysis correctly. You say that additional investments have been made in zones 7 and 8 and that in 20 other places there can be an effective problem due to the shutdown; let us hope that this is not true. What I cannot accept is that people afterwards explain that they did not know. Four years ago, the risks were clearly identified in this gremium. I note that those risks have still not been addressed today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u11	Question No 27053 by Mr Clarinval is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 27146 by Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u12	Minister, it was announced on 3 October that the emergency services will not now communicate via ASTRID but via the regular mobile network. It was also said at the press conference that we should make an additional investment for the exchange of footage from, for example, bodycams and drones with emergency power stations. In 2018 it seems only logical that such a thing should be possible. However, questions remain about the intentions you expressed at the press conference. My previous question was about switching off the power supply to the regular operators. To what extent is the power supply guaranteed for 100 %, when there is no longer communication via ASTRID? Is security equivalent to ASTRID's? Have the additional investments of the telecom operators to meet the needs of the security services been identified? Are they willing to bear these costs or do these investments have an impact on individuals? The transfer to the private network must be accompanied by a thorough risk analysis and guarantees that the network can survive, for example, in the event of overload or even hacking. What guarantees are there regarding the robustness and safety of the network? The question arises as to whether this is the best solution given the different possibilities given.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u13	Mr Geerts, current tetratechnology is expected to disappear from the market by 2030. After that date it is planned that emergency services will communicate via the then existing mobile networks. If the current ASTRID network runs through mobile network operators, there is much more synergy. In this way, the operator will have access to the latest network technologies with a larger number of masts than if it had to roll out independent networks. Current standards for mobile networks provide sufficient opportunities to adequately support the communication of emergency and emergency services with the necessary priorities. ASTRID will then be able to operate as its own secure virtual network on top of that of the existing three networks, with priority being given to calls and data connections. When auctioning the spectrum for the 5G networks, requirements are imposed on mobile operators for the benefit of emergency services. ASTRID will make arrangements with one or more operators about additional security of service continuity in the event of power interruption, as well as about robustness and safety. In addition, ASTRID can place additional masts where the coverage of current operators is not sufficient. It is stipulated that the investments required by operators for special functionalities and measures for ASTRID will be carried out by ASTRID, so that it does not have an additional impact on the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 27279 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u16	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the auction of telecom licences and a possible fourth player on the telecom market. During the budget negotiations of July 2018, it was announced in the margin that the government had decided to give a fourth telecom player the opportunity to join the telecom market. In March 2021 the licences for the mobile frequencies of 900, 1800 and 2100 megahertz expire and therefore need to be auctioned again for the next 20 years. In addition, three new frequencies will be auctioned, namely 700, 1400 and 3600 megahertz for the 5G network. I know that this requires consultation with the Communities. When deploying a 5G network, you think a part should be reserved for the emergency services. During the press conference you also said that an additional player could lead to a reduction in the telecom bill by 200 euros. You referred to Italy and the Netherlands. However, the telecom operators and the Agoria federation warned about the impact on investment and employment. Those are the facts from the summer. We are now a few months away and I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the status of the dossier on timing and consultation with the Communities on the administrative framework? Is there an effective interest of a fourth player? We read in the newspaper of yes, but for reasons of confidentiality no information could be given about it. Have you consulted with the current operators, who have already announced in the media that a new operator would have an impact on their investments? For example, Proximus had already issued a press release on its impact on its investments and employment? Have you sat around the table with them so that the impact can be estimated? Are the messages true? What is the further timing for auctioning the licences? In the past I asked your predecessor Van Quickenborne questions about a Chinese player who would come to the Belgian market, but afterwards I didn't hear anything about it. You yourself launched the Broadband Belgium initiative a few years ago. What is the state of this, because after the answer to my question in the Chamber I have not heard much of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u17	Mr Geerts, in 2012, BIPT granted a WiMAX licence to a fourth Chinese operator, whose Belgian subsidiary Voyacom was baptized. In 2018, the American group Airspan Voyacom took over. Under the new name Dense Air Belgium, the company will offer services to existing mobile operators to make their network closer. In 2016, B.Lite and Mac Telecom transferred their licence for the 3500 MHz band to Broadband Belgium. In 2017, Broadband Belgium waived its licence. For the new auction, a European player has shown interest in the fourth licence. However, whether the interest is concrete will become apparent when this player submits a candidate file. That'll be mid-2019. It is not evident to determine the long-term impact and impact on the overall level of investment, as different existing studies contradict each other. Some studies say that a fourth player will increase the additional competition resulting from this investment. This was the case, among other things, in France, where the level of investment of the existing players also increased sharply after the arrival of a fourth player. Other studies indicate that global investment by the sector will increase but that investment per operator will decrease slightly. Other studies suggest that in the long term investment will be put under pressure in a market with four operators. What is clear in any case is that the arrival of a fourth player will drastically reduce the prices. We'll all win. I am a little surprised that some Brussels colleagues show that high prices are absolutely no problem. The spectrum dossier has already been presented to the Interministerial Committee on Telecommunications and Radio broadcasting and Television. It will be submitted to the Consultative Committee, to the Council of State and, where appropriate, to the Council of Ministers at second reading. The preliminary draft law will then have to be approved by Parliament and the royal decrees will have to be signed by the King. If the adoption of the regulatory framework is not delayed, the auction is planned for September or October 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u18	Minister, I have one more specific question. Has this been scheduled and discussed in the Consultative Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u19	That is on the agenda for 7 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u20	Question No 27073 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u21	Minister, as I said earlier, according to the IBPT's cover cards, no less than 99.9% of dwellings in Belgium have an Internet connection of at least 1 Mbps. This rate drops to 95.5% for 30 Mbps connections. In June 2016, in response to a question from Ms.Poncelet, you explained that 2,263 housing units in Wallonia did not have access to a one megabit per second connection. My commune, Aywaille, like others, is part of these white areas. Since then, in collaboration with operators and the Walloon Region, some measures have been taken. Proximus tested new technologies for combination of fixed and mobile frequencies. On the mobile side, an agreement was reached between the operators and the Walloon government to reduce white areas. As such, great progress has been made this year. Minister, to return to federal policy, what is the status of the fight against fixed white areas? What about the latest coverage initiatives? Are there any progress in the fight against mobile white areas? Have any measures been taken to promote the coverage of these areas? Can you explain to us the action plan "white areas" for the underserved communes in telecommunications, since there are still 16 out of 39? Has the government released amounts to deploy fibre to these areas? If so, could you give me details of the investments and tell me how and where they were committed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u22	Mrs Matz, the analysis of the 39 communes shows that, despite visible progress, the problem of white areas has not yet been completely solved. Fixed coverage of 30 Mbits increased by an average of 10% between 2017 and 2018. In this way, in the 39 municipalities concerned, it has increased - still on average - from 64 per cent to 74 per cent of households connected to high-speed traffic. In your municipality of Aywaille, it is estimated in particular that 10% of households suffer from a lack of connectivity. The aim of the action plan is to encourage operators to invest in white areas to modernise their network. One of the measures adopted for this purpose is the relaxation of regulation. Last June, the IBPT included it in its analysis of broadband markets. As a result of this relaxation, VOO indicated that it would invest in the next five years to provide services to several tens of thousands of additional households. This year, it upgraded its network to connect just over 10,000 households. In addition, for the past year, Proximus has connected several tens of thousands of households to high-speed via a combination of fixed and mobile networks. This solution, called Tessares, has been successfully tested since 2016 in Frasnes-lez-Anvaing. Note that this type of solution requires good mobile coverage! In this regard, we welcome the agreement between the operators and the Walloon government, which should increase coverage within the areas concerned. With regard to fibre, it is quite difficult for public authorities to act directly on investment costs, most of which consist of civil engineering. However, microwave links can be an interesting alternative to underground fibre optics to connect rural communities. Since 2018, Proximus has successfully deployed this type of promising solution in the municipality of Felenne. In Belgium, however, the annual charges for microwave links are quite high. Therefore, in order to stimulate the use of this type of solution, I will propose to the government in the weeks that have just come to reduce the annual user fees for new microwave links in white areas by 80%. In combination with the reduction in regulation and the expected improvement in mobile coverage, the reduction in annual fees for microwave links should provide an additional incentive for operators to provide broadband to all households still suffering from lack of connectivity by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. I thought the investment plan presented by the government at the end of August/early September included a digital component. Is this what you just mentioned, the reduction of duties, or something else?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u24	No! I think the investment plan brings together the full investments in the sector. Networks are clearly private or mixed investments in the case of Proximus. Consequently, these amounts are taken into account. The reduction in charges that we propose here is not included. This is an incentive that we offer for operators to make more use of microwave links. These can help improve local coverage. It is not included in the investment plan, but it is an element that can help to make the investments, which are discussed in the plan, more interesting for the operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u25	Mr Minister, I have of course taken note of the existence of this incentive and the fact that the investment plan is more about infrastructure. Nevertheless, it is true that this situation is totally incomprehensible to people affected by these white areas. It is impossible for agents, whether local or at other levels of power, to explain to them that they cannot have the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic985x.u27	For people who work from home, it is also an incentive. We're talking a lot about telework, etc. It's still extremely difficult. We can't give them answers. You say these are private investments but we have a mixed tool that is Proximus. We should be able to resolve this problem in more timely fashion. I see that there is still a progression, but we can't explain to people what we can do to help them. Alternative solutions are almost non-existent. We will return tirelessly to this issue because it is a real problem for 26% of households, if I have heard you correctly.
