ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u1	Mr Minister, very recently the draft law on various provisions on civil law and amending the Code of the Court of Justice to promote alternative forms of dispute resolution included a section which transfers competence for the procedure of first name change to civil status. For transgenders in particular, this is also the case in the new articles, but I am informed that there would be some problems in practice at the moment, which could perhaps be resolved by an instruction. In particular, I am informed that lists of women's and men's names are used for the designation of the first name change, based on the number of names in Statbel. In addition, there would be a restriction: names that occur less than five times are not taken into account. That would mean that there is unequal treatment based on gender identity: when a name is given to a baby, the choice is wider than with regard to the names that transpersons can obtain approval for. In the latter case, one could not choose a name that appears less than five times in the statistical tables. Individuals are not obliged to change their first name, nor are they obliged to change their first name. It could therefore be that the list of men's names already includes transwomen who are legal women, but do not apply for a first name change. The opposite also applies: in the list of women's names there are undoubtedly transmen who have a male gender identity, but do not want to change their first name. The trans-legislation itself makes the application of the first name change procedure obsolete in this way. There should be no similarity between the gender expression and the name, but when applying for a first name change, this criterion applies in practice. I have the following questions. Can the application for a first name change be made simultaneously with a possible gender registration change? Why is that, or why not? Is it true that the lists of names exist and are they still used in the sense I have outlined? Will you take steps to undo that practice, as it results in a discriminatory outcome? What criteria will civil servants have to apply when approving a first name change? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, both requests can be made simultaneously. However, since the civil status official is responsible for the gender registration change and because the change of first name falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice, the two adjustments do not take place simultaneously. In fact, a draft law is currently being discussed in the Committee on Justice, in particular the law on various provisions on civil law 1, which transfers jurisdiction to the municipalities with regard to the first name changes. The advantage of this is that the gender registration change and the first name change will be dealt with by the same authority and will therefore be possible at the same time. There are currently no lists or calendars of first names as used before the Law of 15 May 1987 on names and first names in force. Any request for a change of first name, transgender or not, shall check that the first name chosen does not give rise to confusion, in accordance with Article 3, first and second paragraphs of that law. I would remind you that more than 99% of first name change requests are allowed. A refusal is very exceptional. I do not intend to impose specific criteria on civil servants in relation to requests for the first name change of transgenders, as the law on the first name change creates a right for these persons. This point will be repeated in the circular which I will address to civil servants in the context of the above-mentioned draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You refer to the law that was just adopted in the Justice Committee, which allows the gender change registration and the possible change of first name to take place simultaneously in the future. I note that there are no lists. However, I hear you say that the decision of the civil servant would be aimed at avoiding confusion. What do you mean by "avoid confusion" I assume you don't mean that there must be an agreement between the first name and the gender expression? This would seem strange, because a gender change does not require a change in the first name. I shall perhaps ask a new question on that. In any case, it is a good thing that there is no discrimination in allowing a first name change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u4	Minister, in the summer of 2017, you decided to grant longer leave periods to prisoners, provided they meet certain criteria, as regards the evaluation of the extended penitentiary leave. This measure was introduced to control the overpopulation in prisons. I would also refer to my previous oral question, on which you replied, among other things, that an evaluation was carried out in September 2017, but that your staff were finalising a wider evaluation and that you would then decide whether and under what conditions the measure of the extended penitentiary leave would continue for one week in prison and one week's leave. In the meantime, we are a few months ahead and I have the following questions for you. In the meantime, has there been a wide-ranging evaluation of the measure? If so, what was the result? If not, when can we expect that evaluation? Is the measure of extended penitentiary leave still in force? Were the terms changed? Is it possible to receive a report on the evaluation of the measure? Do you think it is necessary to discuss this with Parliament? How many inmates have currently taken the regime of extended penitentiary leave? Can you also indicate how many prisoners violated their conditions, which required their extended penitentiary leave to be withdrawn? My second question concerns Article 10 of the Act on External Legal Status, which explicitly states that victims are to be informed as soon as possible, and in any case within 24 hours, by means of the fastest possible written communication, of the granting of initial penitentiary leave and, where appropriate, of the conditions imposed in their interest. There is no mention of the communication of an exit permit in that article, in other words it is not expressly regulated. However, it is not unthinkable that this should happen. I was approached about this by the victim of a very serious violent crime that stumbled upon the perpetrator when he was using an outing permit. I can imagine that this could be traumatic, as traumatic as when this would happen on penitentiary leave. Mr Minister, is the granting of an exit permit notified to the victims? Why not? It is not explicitly stated in the law, but does it sometimes happen in practice that victims are informed of night-time permits issued? I can imagine that it does happen in the case of very serious crimes. Is there a systematic obligation on the sentenced person to remain in the vicinity of the victims when granting a penitentiary leave or leave permit? If not, why isn't this standard? Who should inform the victims of the granting of these modalities? What is the procedure for notification, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u5	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, the granting of an initial licence is not brought to the attention of the victims. The legislator explicitly did not provide for this, because "as far as the exit permit is concerned, it did not seem necessary or appropriate to inform the victim, given the short duration for which an exit permit is granted. In addition, the exit permit is always granted for a specific purpose." The legislator also considered that "a systematic notification of these decisions could wrongly provoke fears in relation to the victim." This notification of victims is therefore not made in the case of an exit permit, except in very exceptional circumstances, which are, of course, examined on a case-by-case basis. In any event, where there is damage to persons, the convicted person is prohibited from contacting the victims and their families in any way, and the obligation to break contact spontaneously in the event of an accidental encounter is imposed. The decision to grant penitentiary leave is usually communicated to the victims through the Victims' Home Office of the Court as soon as possible after the award decision, in any case within 24 hours and through the fastest possible written means of communication. If victims ask to be notified through their lawyer, this will be done through the lawyer. The decision to grant a penitentiary leave is thus notified in this way. As for your other question, an assessment of the extended penitentiary leave has taken place and the measure is still in progress. During the period evaluated, 611 detainees used the system. On April 18th there were 711. Seventy births were revoked, which is an affair that we also see coming back on classic leave. An important positive fact is that prisoners who benefit from this leave are increasingly using it to prepare for their reintegration. Some already find a job during this leave and in the same period as the measure is in force, we notice an increase in the number of prisoners placed under electronic supervision by criminal courts. Less prisoners have been denied parole. This data is an indication that a wider presence in the society of detainees in the further stages of their detention could help prepare for reintegration. I am, of course, prepared to discuss the substance of this measure in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as your first answer is concerned, I understand that it is difficult to report systematically and in writing to the victims an exit permit, which can indeed not last longer than 16 hours. I am pleased to hear that this is not a blind application of this rule and that, in exceptional circumstances, a specific case can be taken into account so that the rights of the victim can be guaranteed to the maximum. I think that is necessary. As far as extended penitentiary leave is concerned, I can only conclude with you that, in a number of cases, withdrawal has also had to take place without specific control. These are 70 cases on 711, where apparently new facts have emerged. That's almost 10%. I really do not know whether we can take this risk, even though in some cases reintegration must undoubtedly be a practice and the evaluation also shows that this measure is beneficial for reintegration. This is not the time, but I would ask the chairman of the Committee on Justice to discuss this further, possibly on the basis of the evaluation that you apparently have at your disposal. Do we have access to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u8	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u9	Mr President, Minister, this question relates to previous questions on professional secrecy and the possibilities for derogations. In an article in De Tijd of 7 April 2018, entitled "Girl 16 does everything," it is about the fact that youth aid does not find an answer to the problems of teenage pimps. Recently, the public prosecutors recommended that the victims in teenage pimp files should be considered victims of trafficking in human beings. The measure is generally well followed up and has the effect, among other things, that perpetrators can be punished more severely. However, gaps remain. One of the problems raised is that assistance is often still reluctant to break professional secrecy when it comes to victims of teenage pimps leaving an institution. However, professional secrecy could be broken in such cases. It is stated that in general there is a problem of information exchange, in the sense that when a girl leaves an institution in West Flanders, the parquets do not exchange that news. Minister, I have four questions for you. Firstly, are you aware of the problem of information exchange between the parquets? Secondly, if so, what is the problem? Is it because the information does not get from the institution to the parquet or is it the communication between the parquets? Thirdly, to the extent that you can see it from a federal point of view, is the refusal of aid to break professional secrecy at the basis of the inadequate flow of information? Fourthly, what solution do you see in order to facilitate the exchange of information between the public prosecutors and between the public prosecutor and the youth institution in matters such as this, and in the event of enlargement in all cases involving aid to young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, the College of Attorneys-General tells me that there are no problems in the exchange of information between institutions and public prosecutors and in the event of worrying disappearances. On the contrary, experience has shown that the institutions usually make such reports very quickly and that there are often agreements with the police and the police about standardising the reports and that there are no problems with the application of professional secrecy. For the public prosecutors, the matter is dealt with by the circular COL9/2002 of the College of Attorneys General concerning the ministerial directive on the detection of missing persons. In accordance with this Directive, the disappearances of victims of teenage pimps are covered by the criteria of worrying disappearances. The instructions include that an urgent signal of the missing person is made as soon as possible and that the missing persons cell is notified of the missing persons of the federal police. When a missing minor is found in an arrondissement other than that of the disappearance, the police and the police are immediately informed that it is a minor who has fled. Finally, I should like to inform you that there is regular consultation between the Human Trafficking and Youth Networks in this area. In addition, there is also consultation from the FPS Justice on this issue, including the services of the Communities and Child Focus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u12	At the beginning of April, Minister, we were able to read that some police judges denounced the increasingly expensive traffic fines. I quote: 'We should not increase traffic fines but just lower them. Above all, we must implement the penalties and collect the fines. The great hope never pays. They don't have that money. Many of the offenders are unemployed, in debt mediation or have to live on a living wage. What's the point of imposing monster fines? Only the citizens who pay will cough up more. That the government should publish how many fines are actually paid. At the beginning of last month, the amounts of the fines imposed and the fines collected were given more attention in the light of the figures given by your colleague, the Minister for Finance. This showed that criminal justice officers, not only police judges but also correctional judges, imposed more than EUR 1.2 billion in fines in the period 2012-2016. Of these, 46 % had been collected at the beginning of April and 54 % had not yet been collected. Police judges also complained that their judgment is being called into question. In a response, you have stated that you do not wish to abandon the minimum penalty. You also said that 90% of all fines will be paid immediately. After the summer, you hope to relieve the police courts by allowing minor offences to be dealt with automatically by means of a payment order. The FPS Finance can then collect the fine without the intervention of the judge by withholding the amount from, for example, tax refunds, through payroll, or through a bailiff. In your reply of late 2016 to my parliamentary question on fines, you planned the application of the payment order for mid-2017. The reason for my question was that the multiplication factor of all fines imposed by the judge increased from x6 to x8. All fines were also increased by 5% from 1 January 2017. I asked you to focus on a better inning. First of all, what is your response to the statement of the police judges? Do you maintain your position that we could read in the press, or do you have any additional arguments? Secondly, can you explain the percentage of 90% of traffic fines collected? Thirdly, what measures are you taking to ensure that as many traffic fines as possible are paid? What is the status of the order for payment? Fourthly, will the fact that the fines have been increased not be counterproductive in the sense that even fewer people will pay them? Fifthly, what is your opinion on the statement by some police judges that they have too little discretion and are sometimes obliged to impose very severe penalties without having the room to make a specific assessment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u13	Ms. Lahaye-Battheu, the second phase of Crossborder started on 28 March 2018 and will allow for a better view on the payment and the collection of traffic fines. It will enable us to judge whether the current process needs to be adapted. For the first time, we can have an overview of the handling of fines across the board. I am therefore inclined to postpone the debate on the increase or reduction of certain traffic fines until we can draw conclusions based on the full picture. It is also not because certain offenders deliberately or unconsciously leave their fines, so that the amount starts to rise after a while, that the whole system has to be called into question. The vast majority of traffic fines are paid fairly quickly. Most citizens execute the immediate recovery order and their friendly settlement within the prescribed time frame. In addition to a better collection of fines, the Crossborder project aims to improve our knowledge of, among other things, our customers' willingness to pay. From the data available to us today, we have seen an acceleration of payments and increased willingness to pay, since we have worked on more modern payment options and clearer communication to citizens. This applies both to foreigners and to Belgians. Over the past year, my services have done a great deal to improve the collection of traffic fines. For example, a website and a call centre were created and communication to citizens was optimized. Since 28 March, the double shipment has also been abolished and the necessary ICT applications have been made available to the Justice Department to manage traffic fines in a professional but above all efficient way. I am therefore pleased to inform you that the legislation has been amended in the meantime in order to be able to implement the payment order in practice. The ICT applications that have to organise the day-to-day management of payment orders are in full development. Finally, you should not forget that 69.3% of all traffic infringements in Belgium are infringements of excessive speed. The statistics indicate that one in three of the fatal accidents is due to excessive speed. Efforts to improve road safety and to reduce the number of road deaths also mean that appropriate legal action is taken on infringements of the traffic rules. I do not need to remind you that not only the chance of getting caught but also the amount of the fine are important elements that can lead offenders to change their driving behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I note that you leave the door open to debate the level of fines. You want to postpone the debate until after the outcome of the second phase of the Crossborder project. I am glad that there will be another debate, because now, after the cost and contributions to the fund have been paid, traffic fines are often higher than fines imposed by the courts for theft, for example. Moreover, after settlement, the traffic fine imposed by the police judge is even higher than a month's wager, forcing some of the offenders into poverty. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I remain very concerned about the number of ground sleepers in our Belgian prisons. On 7 February, you replied to an oral question: "I am sorry, together with you, that prisoners are currently sleeping on the floor on a mattress in several prisons. In particular, this is the case in the prisons in Antwerp, Bruges, Ghent, Hasselt, Ieper, Marche and Nivelles." On February 7, 125 inmates slept on the ground. On 28 February, you answered my question about ground sleepers that sleeping on a mattress on the ground does not fit in with a humane detention policy. On 28 February, the number of ground sleepers was reduced by 20 and the number was still 105 inmates. I also believe that you have understood from your answer that the ground sleeper problem had to be removed within a few weeks. As far as the Bruges prison is concerned, two sections, with 38 places for prisoners, are still closed for lack of staff. Minister, how many prisoners are currently sleeping on the ground per prison in Belgium? I would like to receive the updated version of the table you submitted to me on 7 February. On 7 March, you replied orally to me that the two departments in Bruges which are currently closed due to lack of staff could open within six weeks. Have these departments been opened up yet? If not, when will they be opened?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, I can tell you that on 27 April last, 8 prisoners were sleeping on the floor on a mattress, namely 4 in the prison in Hasselt and 4 in the prison in Bruges. In the prison in Hasselt additional bunk beds are placed and so the situation will be resolved very quickly. With regard to the prison in Bruges, the staff framework will be fully completed on 1 July, which was a condition for the trade unions to return to service. Consultations have already taken place between the local management and the local trade union representatives to discuss and prepare the reopening. I therefore hope to be able to confirm the reopening soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u17	Minister, I welcome your answer and I can only hope that we will not fail in the situation of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u18	Minister, I have already questioned you twice in the Chamber plenary on a subject that is very close to my heart, the debt industry. In your response to my question at the plenary session of 18 January 2018, you said: "Of course, I agree with you that the problem of debtors with a high level of private debt is a serious problem that we must give all the attention we need. However, as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, we have asked the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs to make an urgent request to a sectoral Ombudsman at the level of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Off the record, officially that will happen in February. If it does not happen, I will present a draft law to that effect with the colleague concerned, because it is important that we have a complaint bank that can help them neutrally in solving their problems for those who are in their rightful position and who are subject to excessive costs." During the plenary session of 1 March 2018, you replicated my question as follows: "You will have heard that I hope that the costs spent on the collection of a debt could be limited to a certain percentage of the total debt. I proposed 40%. We need to increase the goods and revenues that are not subject to impoundment, now they are pets and similar things. In any case, we must have the bailiff's costs even more transparently and without any abbreviation. Mrs Lambrecht, I know your proposals for legislation. I have already said it to you, in response to a previous question. There's three of us now, and there's four of you. In any case, we must try to get a better view of this and take it into account in our reflection which will be thorough, you can count on it." In the meantime, Minister, we are a few months away and I have questions for you. Firstly, you said that in February of this year there would be an official announcement by a sectoral Ombudsman at the level of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Except for my mistake, I haven't seen that announcement anywhere. So when can we expect your bill to do so? Secondly, you yourself stated that the additional debt costs should not exceed the cape of 40% of the principal debt. What measures have you taken since this judgment of 1 March to achieve this objective and what measures are still in the pipeline? Thirdly, you say that the list of unattended goods should be updated and a more transparent statement of the bailiff's costs should be made. Can I also assume that you support my legislative proposals in this respect? Which other of my ten legislative proposals do you still support? Fourthly, earlier this month, Het Laatste Nieuws brought the painful story of the tax administration as a ruthless creditor who does not allow payments that exceed the 12-month deadline. The government is not only one of the most ruthless creditors, it also increases debt costs. Where a judicial recovery procedure is initiated, it shall be accompanied by the service of several documents. The costs associated with each of these services quickly reach around EUR 300, while 75% of these costs are returned to the public authorities to finance justice and therefore do not end up with the bailiff. If we want to reduce the additional costs of debt, we will necessarily have to reduce the burden of public debt on those services. In that case, subpoenas can become cheaper. This will not only reduce the additional costs on debt, but also make the way to the courts cheaper for citizens and thus more accessible. Minister, how do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u19	Mrs Lambrecht, on the Ombudsman, I understand your impatience, and I share it. My information says that, at the request of the FPS Economy, some points to the file still need to be improved. It can then be approved and the installation of an ombudsperson can be carried out. The payment of a partial payment by the debtor and the repayment of the debt partly to the reimbursement of the costs will be part of a broader and integrated design, which will be submitted to the government in the coming weeks. The modernisation of rules on irreconcilable goods was initiated by you in the Committee on Justice this morning. I understand that hearings will be held and that the dossier will be discussed at that time. The transparency of court bailiff fees will be part of the integrated preliminary draft, to which I referred earlier. You and I agree on the principle. We do not yet agree on the technical aspects. That is why we are including it in the preliminary draft. For the answer to your fourth question, I would refer you to the Minister for Finance, who is responsible for that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I knew you would refer to another minister for the answer to the fourth question. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that it is actually about access for citizens to justice and about affordability for all of them. I do not think you can refer to another minister. You are responsible for the access to justice. Since people already have to pay almost EUR 300 if they cannot pay an invoice from the government in time, I dare to ask you again to intervene and to ensure that people no longer have to pay an additional EUR 300 if they want to turn to the judicial machine. Of this amount, 75% is returned to the government. That's not good governance. You have several ministers in the government. I could indeed put my question again to the Minister for Finance. I could contact Minister Van Overtveldt and the Minister of Civil Service. Minister, I am really addressing my fourth question to you, because you are my only point of light to really do something about the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u21	For decades, Minister, interned people were simply locked up in a prison, without appropriate help. There were no adapted care facilities and interns had no perspective, since their measure did not have an end date. These are practices for which Belgium has already been condemned 25 times by the European Court of Human Rights. In a judgment of 6 September 2016, the European Court of Human Rights, in the so-called pilot judgment, condemned Belgium for the way in which interns are treated in Belgian prisons. By ruling in one case and postponing the others, the Court gave Belgium the opportunity to solve the structural problem. In doing so, our country was given the dubious honour of being the subject of a pilot's arrest, which can be described as a historic blame. The deadline was set on 6 December 2018, two years after the judgment became final. The case that led to the judgment of 6 September 2016 concerned a certain W.D., who was found guilty of sexual assault on the honorability of a minor. He did those facts at the age of 19. In 2007, his internment was decided. W.D. Among other things, he suffered an autism spectrum disorder and was not considered responsible for his actions. The European Court of Human Rights found that since then, for more than nine years, he has resided in the psychiatric ward of the prison in Merksplas, without any treatment and without any prospect of re-entry into society. That was a violation of the ban on inhuman treatment, as guaranteed by Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Court acknowledged that, since 2011, the public authorities have made certain efforts to find suitable accommodation, but noted that they had not delivered any results, due to structural problems. In particular, the medical support of interns in the psychiatric ward of the prisons is insufficient and the external placement is often impossible due to a lack of places. The Court also ruled that detention without appropriate assistance and therapy constitutes a violation of Article 5.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Furthermore, a breach of Articles 5.4 and 13 was also found. The Court found that the lack of an effective remedy for interns in Belgium is a structural problem. There is a shortage of staff in the psychiatric departments of the prisons and there is a shortage of places in external institutions. So there is not only a problem within the Justice Department, but also in the Department of Health. The Court did not consider seeking compensation through civil courts to be an effective remedy. This can only lead to financial compensation, but not to an improvement in the situation in the area of detention. For all these reasons, the Belgian State was obliged to improve the situation of interned persons by 6 December 2018 and to align them with the European Convention on Human Rights. Pending that, all similar pending cases against Belgium were suspended. To W.D. The Belgian State had to pay a moral compensation of EUR 16 000. In recent years, many initiatives have been taken to provide interned people with the care to which they are entitled. For example, there were special departments for interns with increased security in the psychiatric hospitals of Bierbeek, Rekem and Zelzate and two high-security forensic psychiatric centers were built and Ghent and Antwerp. Currently 262 people stay in Ghent and 156 in Antwerp. The number of interned in prison has fallen from 1,087 in 2013 to 543. A Masterplan internment provides for two more FPCs to be added in Wallonia and a longstay in Aalst. In the meantime, places have already been released in the psychiatric hospitals. In recent years, measures have also been taken to better deal with internees in prison, for example through the creation of multidisciplinary care equipes. By 6 December 2018, it will be necessary to establish whether these measures have not been too little too late but have solved the structural problem. If that is not the case, our country risks having to cough up a lot of compensation. Minister, I have three questions. First of all, how many interned people are staying in an ordinary prison cell today, deprived of the necessary care? Secondly, how many claims are currently pending? Thirdly, what will you do to ensure that no interned person is still in prison by 6 December 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, there are no internees in ordinary prison cells today. On 17 April 549 interned in Belgian prisons, of which 168 were in psychiatric annex and 376 were in an institution for the protection of society, namely in Turnhout, Merkplas and Paifve. The 5 other persons of the 549 stayed in a medical center for medical reasons. In total, 204 interned persons have submitted an application for compensation either by subpoenas before the civil court or in private. The internment law provides that an interned person may be placed for a maximum period of one month in a psychiatric annex to the prison in the event of suspension of a trial release or electronic surveillance. In the event of provisional arrest, the internment law provides that the interned person may also be taken to the psychiatric ward of the prison, although for a short period of time. I give you this because it is not correct to declare that interned people would never be locked up again. Moreover, according to the law, interned persons can also be placed in a department for the protection of society, such as the three mentioned in Paifve, Turnhout and Merksplas. The Minister of Health will create additional places in the regular circuit for the year 2018, to allow interned people to flow there. Efforts are being made to include these internees for which an external care pathway is not easily found, being those with both behavioural disorders, mental disorders and intellectual disabilities. It is called the cases of comorbidity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u23	Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u24	Mr President, Minister, now that the areas of the so-called caliphate are liberated, the human problem arises as to the fate of the children of the Belgian IS fighters. Once a child is Belgian, the Belgian government is entitled to protection. In principle, one can return voluntarily, but if this is not organised on the ground, the rights of these children may be violated. Federal Attorney, Frédéric Van Leeuw, says that we should not make the suffering of these children worse and that their families should also be considered. The Commissioner for Children's Rights, Bruno Vanobbergen, also supports the call by Unicef and children's rights organisations on the ground to securely escort these children back to Belgium. There is a good chance that these children will disappear under the radar when refugee camps and prisons are opened up. It seems therefore the best thing for long-term safety to bring these children back now, even if the circumstances are not easy. I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the government's attitude towards the organised recovery of children of Belgian nationality from Syria? Secondly, is there an active commitment to bringing children back to Belgium, for example on the basis of a mission that can inventory and determine needs? If so, how does this work? If not, why not? Thirdly, what effort is being made to accompany these children after they return?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u25	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, I am convinced that it is essential to take account of the situation of minors in Syria or Iraq who are or were born in Belgium and for whom Belgian nationality can be established. I am particularly committed to respect for international instruments on children's rights, and I have therefore insisted that the issue be discussed in the National Security Council. The National Security Council has decided that, in principle, return assistance should be granted to minors under 10 years of age, and that this assistance will be decided on a case-by-case basis for minors over 10 years of age. The various services are currently discussing the procedure to be replaced. This does not mean that there will be no return assistance for minors over 10 years of age. In these cases, we must take into account the risks of military training and indoctrination that these children may have undergone, as well as the impact of their return and the measures to be taken. Close cooperation with the Communities is necessary in this context because the succession of children is primarily their responsibility, both in the field of assistance to minors and in the field of youth protection. I am not in a position at the moment to explain more and refer you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his area of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u26	Minister, it is a very important problem. You said that the matter was discussed by the National Security Council, where it was decided to provide absolute assistance in the case of children under 10 years of age. The figures we have show that the majority of minors are children under 10 years of age, most of whom are even less than six years old. So the problem of military training is not really there. This will only apply to a very small proportion of those concerned. But when we say "A," we also have to say "B." If the government says it wants to provide assistance to bring these children to Belgium, it must also do so in an organised way. If one merely says that assistance will be provided and that nothing else will be done, then those children will not be able to be brought to Belgium. I will follow your suggestion and also put a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because I suspect it will be his competence rather than mine. In any case, everyone is looking at the government, everyone is looking at you: Unicef, the child rights commissioner, even the federal prosecutor, the families in Belgium. I hope that the government will make every effort in the coming days and weeks to make progress in your area of competence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, so that the children in Belgium can be taken care of. They're not to blame for what their parents did. These were sometimes terrible things, but children under six or ten years of age cannot be held responsible for the actions of their parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u27	Mr President, today I am accompanied by an intern from the Institute of Political Studies in Paris. Minister, you have recently responded specifically to seizures of mobile phones in prison as well as the new sweating system. On this occasion, you suggested that you again ask yourself about the follow-up given to these seizures. So I'm coming back to you so you can really explain what happens once a gsm is found in a cell. Is the cell being searched further in order to find possible other objects as well as the charging cable? Are all inmates in the cell being interviewed to find out exactly what use the phone was made of? What happens to the phone itself? Is it kept and returned to the inmate upon release, or is it sold, destroyed, offered to any association or other? Lastly, did the prisoners thus taken automatically face sanctions such as the dungeon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u28	Mr Flahaux, in general, during a sweating check, when the device detects the presence of a gsm in a cell, it is absolutely certain that the gsm is there. It is therefore seized. Logically we then analyze whether other objects - USB stick, SIM card, memory card, charger - are present, which involves a thorough search of the cell. Each detection of a gsm gives rise to the start of a disciplinary procedure. The issue of the use of gsm is discussed with inmates during the hearing as part of this disciplinary procedure. If there are indications that the gsm has been used for criminal purposes, the gsm shall be made available to the judicial authorities. While it is very clear that this is not the case, it is retained until the release of the inmate. Penalties are provided for in the Law of Principles. The possession of a gsm is a disciplinary offence of the first category. The detainee found in possession of a gsm can therefore be punished with a general or special disciplinary sanction, as provided for in the said Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. Perhaps I should also have asked you if the attitude was the same in the neighbourhoods where radicalized prisoners were.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u30	Mr. Minister, according to your answer to my written question of 17 January 2017, in 2016 our country had just less than 1,600 deputy counsellors and judges, in particular 1,597, or about 130 less than in 2012. The decline is mainly due to alternates at the level of the courts of appeal and the peace courts. Alternates usually do good work, but often suffer from a lack of statute and decent pay. Problematic are the long-term structural replacements of magistrates, where one enters the system of working magistrate and receives half of the magistrate's bet. The system of deputy judges has long been criticised, among others by the Order of Flemish Balies, which stated in its 2014 memorandum: "The OVB remains strongly opposed to the structural commitment of lawyers as substitute judges. Better use of the available judiciary can solve the legal backlog. The OVB calls for a pool of additional judges to be set up to replace magistrates who are prevented for some reason. There has also been a longer period of criticism from the Supreme Court of Justice, which outlined the problems in its opinions in 2004 and 2011 and proposed possible solutions in terms of training, shortening the duration of the post and evaluation, financial conditions, access to the legislature and age conditions. Last but not least, there is also criticism from the GRECO, the Council of Europe Anti-corruption Working Group, which asked our country already in 2015 for stricter conditions to become a deputy judge, as well as measures to rule out conflicts of interest. Measures had to be taken by the October 2017 deadline and a new report on progress was needed. Mr Minister, first of all, what is the relationship between deputy counsellors and judges versus working magistrates and prosecutors? What is the percentage of lawyers among the alternates? Secondly, how many full-time equivalents are the substitutes equal? Thirdly, in relation to the GRECO, what is the content of the most recent report we have sent the GRECO? How did GRECO judge this report? Was this considered sufficient? Fourthly, what was the amount of remuneration paid to magistrates in the 2016 and 2017 budgets and what was the amount of remuneration paid to alternate magistrates? Fifthly, what measures are still in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u31	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, there are currently 1 531 deputy magistrates and counsellors versus 2 383 effective magistrates. Deputy magistrates have no ordinary duties. They shall be appointed to replace temporarily prevented judges, counsellors or members of the public prosecutor's office. They may be called upon to sit if the occupation is not sufficient to establish the court in accordance with the provisions of the law. In principle, they provide occasional services which are so varied that they cannot be expressed in full-time equivalents. Staff expenditure for magistrates in the judiciary in 2017 was just under EUR 299 million. This includes a total of EUR 1.8 million for the remuneration of deputy magistrates. Following the recommendations made by GRECO on a reform of the conditions for recourse to deputy judges, a number of possible measures were submitted to GRECO, for example in the areas of training, deontology and recruitment. The GRECO welcomes the proposed measures, which should address certain gaps identified in the evaluation report. GRECO calls on Belgium to complete the announced measures with supervision and effective sanctions. In reply to your last question, reference can be made to the discussions on the draft law laying down various provisions on civil law and amending the Civil Code, in particular on the promotion of alternative forms of dispute resolution. That is the parliamentary document No. 2919, more specifically page 688. It shall include incompatibility in Article 298 of the Court's Code, extended to paid mediators, with the exception of alternate judges, for whom incompatibility shall be limited to mediation in cases in which one of the parties is domiciled in the jurisdiction in which the magistrate concerned is appointed. Mr President, thank you, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I heard that a number of measures were proposed in the latest report to the GRECO. The GRECO would have assessed this positively. If I've read it correctly, we've got another "F." The use of alternates is about the day-to-day operation of justice, Minister. It is also about the citizen's trust in justice and the support of the legal profession of magistracy. Today, the latter happens for too long and sometimes too often, causing distortions. I know the problem didn't date yesterday. It's been known a long time. I also know that you have a lot on your plate, but I believe that this is an item that needs to be dealt with urgently. You announce this in your draft law, but I believe that the problem of substitute judges is serious enough to be tackled as a matter of priority so that confidence in justice can be restored and the feeling of some lawyers, who are all too often called up as alternates against often no remuneration, can be helped the world. I will continue to follow this theme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u33	Since Mrs Valerie Van Peel was absent, her question No 25116 was not applicable. The same applies to Question No 25035 by Mrs Daphné Dumery. Question No 25239 by Gilles Vanden Burre is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u34	Minister, a detainee was found dead on Saturday 21 April in his A wing cell in Mons Prison. According to the initial findings, he had an overdose, which is a bit strange in a prison. Minister, as I ask you this question, all the initial investigative duties will have been carried out. Have you received the first conclusions of the medical examiner? Is this an overdose? In this case, what amounts are found in his blood? If so, what type of substance is the cause of this death? I can understand that in the first part, there is the private, personal and investigative aspects, but I remain particularly concerned about the means by which these substances enter prison. What measures are being taken to stop this phenomenon because an overdose in prison is still special? Which prisons are most affected by the illicit consumption of narcotic drugs? What has been the evolution of this phenomenon over the last five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u35	Mr Flahaux, a judicial file was opened concerning this death in Mons prison. However, given that the judicial investigation is still ongoing, we are not in a position to answer this specific case at this time. The most widely used vector for the introduction of narcotics probably remains that of visits, which sometimes take place outside surveillance. Another channel through which narcotics are able to return to institutions is the different ways in which prisoners are sentenced to prison leave and leave. Some prisons are also experiencing drop-off phenomena in the meadows. Suppliers or outside companies entering establishments may also participate in such trafficking. Finally, it cannot be ruled out that some staff members are engaged in trafficking in illicit substances or prohibited objects, despite the risks involved in the discovery of such illegal practices. Among the ways in which this can be addressed, I can mention the general measures of control and detection at the entrance to the prison. In addition, controls using drug detection dogs are organized in collaboration with the police services. Each prison also has a search plan, determining the indications on which detainees can be searched, the cells and common areas to be inspected, or the frequency of such investigations. Of course, the observations of inmates' behaviour play a major role. Those found in possession of psychotropic products are disciplined. In addition, the facts brought before them are reported to the judicial authorities. All prisons are affected by the phenomenon of drug use and it would make no sense to classify them as such. It is widely accepted that one third of prisoners recognize the use of illicit substances in prison. On the other hand, almost two thirds of them report having already consumed an illegal substance during their lifetime. The most commonly consumed products are, in descending order: cannabis, heroin, benzodiazepines, cocaine-like psychostimulants or amphetamines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic885x.u36	Minister, thank you for your thorough and thorough answer. It is true, however, that the phenomenon of this overdose probably led to death. Your latest numbers are quite a question to me. I do not believe that one third of the total population is using drugs. Now, that's the number you're quoting. If you remember correctly, I asked you similar questions about smoking. This had created a controversy in French-speaking Belgium. A radio program, during which I was questioned about this, even took place. On the basis of the statements of a former director of Lantin prison, it was found that, on leaving prison, there were more smokers than at the entrance. It's probably the same for drugs. Normally, prison must be the penalty in itself. If inmates become more smokers and drug addicts, this is a second sentence. I am aware that this is a problem of means, particularly with regard to control. It is not easy, but we need to address this issue. I'm not delusional. When people get out of prison and consume cigarettes, it's not a major evil yet. But if it comes to drugs, they will want to continue to use it. On the one hand, it is illegal and, on the other hand, to consume, we need means. Unfortunately, the means to obtain drugs do not lead to very positive reactions.
