ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic980x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, yourself, Commissioner Thyssen, and a wide range of MEPs and experts have described the judgment of 6 February as groundbreaking. In your opinion paper in Knack on 13 November, you underline the following: "The Crombez Act will shortly be the trash can of the European Court of Justice." You add that this is a question of 'a law which, from the outset, almost all experts in the field, including his own administration, have criticised'.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic980x.u2	Although I consider that to be a remarkable decision vis-à-vis the staff of the administration who, together with the government-appointed counsellors, have drawn up the defence's conclusions in that case and submitted them to the European Court by the end of 2015, because you are actually giving the European Court a kind of release to refer the law to the trash can, I will not comment on that. What interests me is an answer to the question of what exactly is groundbreaking about the ruling against posting fraud and unfair competition. On your website, you state: Fraud is unacceptable and the rules on posting must be followed. It is now clear that anyone who obtains documents in an unlawful manner is also cheating. Thanks to this ruling, the inspection services are given an additional tool to detect, stop and tackle social fraud. This creates a level playing field and healthy fair competition for our companies. In order to tackle international social dumping more quickly, I continue to focus on bilateral agreements and better information exchange." On the one hand, you seem to suggest that the judgment is merely an application of European law, while on the other hand you are talking about its pioneering nature. If it is indeed a groundbreaking judgment, is it not because some Member States, including Belgium during the previous legislature, have started to shake the branches of trees more and more in order to reach such groundbreaking statements? How many procedures for requalification of A1 documents have the inspection services initiated before a Belgian court between 2014 and today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic980x.u3	Thank you for the question, Mrs Kitir. I think that a number of things are deliberately or unconsciously mixed up. For those who are less familiar with the techniques and case law in the field, this confusion is not illogical. For the sake of clarity, the Altun judgment is about the fact that the national court may dismiss fraudulent A1 attestations in a counter-proceedings. We have therefore been right in this respect, and rightly so. In addition, there is the anti-abuse regime of John Crombez, which states that the administrations, institutions and inspection services can put A1 certificates aside after an inspection. We have been wrong about this from the European Court of Justice. That is where the fundamental difference lies. The problems of withdrawing an A1 certificate between administrations may or may not be solved by means of a European dispute procedure. Because we are using this dispute procedure more and more often, solutions will also be found on the ground. The groundbreaking thing for me lies in the reversal of case law. In the past, neither an administration nor an inspection service nor a judge could question the A1 attestations. The Altun judgment is clearly the opposite. If a judge now finds in a contradictory trial that fraud has been committed, the A1 attestations can be annulled. That is an important distinction. That is technical, but it is essential to understand the statements and the discussion. The opinion piece in Knack was a response to a press release from your chairman to make it clear that there is a difference. I therefore find that judgment groundbreaking, because the European case-law allows a judge to withdraw an A1 certificate from the scope of application and thus to enforce the withdrawal of the certificate after judicial review by the judiciary. The national court now has the opportunity to consider this and see how the A1 or E101 declaration can be set aside unilaterally. This is the result of the fact that the Belgian inspection services and the administration in the Altun case had built up a very clear case with very clear arguments, which proved them right at the European Court of Justice with the basic argument fraus omnia corrupt; a corruption mechanism can never take precedence over mutual recognition of a Member State. That is why we have been followed by the European Court of Justice. This is important because, in particular, the RSZ inspection in the context of social dumping cases, if fraud is detected, can do a number of cases relating to A1 attestations, even if it is mainly about larger cases, which will be advocated in court. Secondly, the construction of the judgment is indeed due to the research project of the inspection services. The findings and activities of Bulgarian companies and interviews of the business leaders concerned were also taken into account in this report by a rogatory letter in Bulgaria. It also helps us to conclude bilateral agreements with a number of countries to facilitate such matters. In addition, the initiatives of the Labour Auditorate in this area have been stepped up in recent years. Today, in a debate on transport, the judicial and inspection services found each other to act against heavy social dumping. The very thorough legal and factual defence before the European Court has ensured that the Court has followed us in this. Apart from the Altun case, no other procedures for requalification of A1 certificates were submitted to a Belgian court during that period, also because the Altun judgment had not yet been dropped. It was then assumed that it couldn't be done. It's all right now. So there will undoubtedly be other initiatives in this area. Dialogue and conciliation at European level between Member States will continue. We are therefore also trying to take this path and make use of it. Between June 2015 and March 2018, around 925 files were dealt with through the European conciliation procedure. Of these, 713 files were dealt with in Phase 1, which is a dialogue between inspection services. I will not list the details by country, but I will give them to you. In phase 2, 204 files were dealt with, which is a dialogue between administrations. That's where most of the RSZ is and about a fourth of the RSVZ. Eight dossiers were dealt with in Phase 3, i.e. at the level of the European Commission, between the European administrations. These were four dossiers in Romania, three in Poland and one in the United Kingdom. Of these, 4 files were completed and 4 files are still in progress. The number of A1 certificates withdrawn by this legislature is 3 635. This is higher than the number of files, because a file may contain a number of A1 attestations. If that's what you want, I can give you the survey every year. We have really made the fight against social dumping a priority. In 2017, the RSZ inspection carried out 2 298 social dumping investigations, which identified 1 018 infringements. Of these, 801 files were regularised and 170 minutes and 50 criminal records were prepared. In particular, almost €10 million of RSZ contributions were obtained through the regularisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic980x.u4	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for the comprehensive answer. I would like to receive the detailed figures so I can review them later. It is important that we continue to make the fight against social dumping a priority. You yourself said that it is important that both the inspection services and the work audit services and the various services work together to combat social dumping. I hope you will continue on this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic980x.u5	Question No 25662 by Mrs Lanjri will be converted into a written question. Question No 25773 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau will be converted into a written question. The combined questions No 26086 by Mrs Lanjri and No 26266 by Mrs Fonck are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic980x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, it may be a rather strange question, because it is a question of French legislation, but the consequences of this French legislation are very dramatic for West Flanders. My question concerns the Macron Act and the protection of the French market. The protection and measures against social dumping - which is ultimately commendable, we have the same practice of combating social dumping - have consequences, with administrative obligations, fines and costs. Many West Flemish companies are therefore considering not offering cross-border work traffic between Belgium and France. Are you aware of this problem? What is the status of this file? Are there solutions in place to deal with this French legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic980x.u7	Mr President, I know the law very well. One of my first visits abroad as Secretary of State was to contact the then French Minister of Work, then under the Dutch Government. We talked about it then, and I said that the additional requirements laid down in the Macron Act make it very difficult, de facto, to allow postings to take place and that frontier work is extremely difficult. We have also recalled this question in the context of the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between France and Belgium on the exchange of information, so that we can better detect social fraud. We then put that on the table again. We have said that we want to work together. One of the examples I always give is that minimum wages in Belgium are higher than in France. If we follow the legislation, then we cannot actually do social dumping, because wages are higher for us than for France. In the meantime, we have been able to obtain an improvement in the costs, which has been abolished for 40 euros per certificate from 1 January 2017. So that is a step forward. We have also found that notifications are possible electronically, so no more paperwork is required. However, we will have to go even further. There is also an infringement procedure against the Macron Act and a German variant of it in the European Commission. According to my latest information, a statement by the European Commission on this can be expected in the course of 2019. This is therefore also a procedure which has been going on for a long time and which has now been going on for two to three years. We hope that the European Commission will give its opinion soon. I think she has tried to solve it mainly in the context of the new Thyssen package and the new transport regulation. However, this has not yet been resolved, but the European Commission will have to give a ruling on this. I can also tell you that I and my colleague Mr Peeters are currently negotiating a protocol on frontier work in the agricultural and horticultural sectors. In this sector sometimes people who cross the border very quickly, even have areas on both sides of the border or carry out targeted missions on the other side of the border. Here too, we are trying to organise transparency between the services in these specific cases, so that all these papers are no longer necessary or can in any case be kept to a minimum. In short, I know the aspirations of the various sectors, the transport and agricultural sectors, the green sectors. We are trying to work hard for this and we continue to insist in the discussions with France that there should be a softening of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-17-54-commissie-ic980x.u8	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for sharing our concerns and making efforts. That won't be obvious. It is a struggle of small Belgium against the great equal of the great France, with the intention of convincing that country to do something about the situation. The West-Flemish business community has made enormous efforts to establish partnerships with France, especially the north of France. There's a lot of trade going on in that region. It is a thriving region, with very little unemployment. Then we'll run into this. It's really poignant to see. However, we remain hopeful, and we look forward to Europe's statement and perhaps something can be done about it.
