ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u1	All those who have filed questions are present. The minister is also present, as are other members of the commission. So we can start our work. In order not to lag behind, I propose the following procedure: the members who have tabled questions now ask them, so as to avoid any duplication, since most of the questions will, I think, have been answered. Colleagues, I will not be on top of the intransigent respect for the two-minute time limit to ask your question, but I ask you, however, not to exceed the five-minute time limit for the introduction of this question, knowing that the opportunity is always available to reply, comment and intervene in order to continue the exchange with the Minister. Members who had not tabled a question joined us. Do some people wish to join the departure questions or do they prefer to intervene after the Minister's response?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u2	Madam President, I would indeed like to join the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u3	Madam President, Minister, I have two questions on the agenda, but I had also put a question on 15 August when swine fever came closer and I asked you what you would do. But I am going to put my questions on the agenda, which are additional to that question. If the swine fever breaks out, it must be compensated and emptied. The main concern in this respect is the following. How exactly are we going to do that? We must, of course, provide financial assistance to our farmers, but I have a further concern about the family aspect. It is not nothing if one sees one's stables emptied, when one sees healthy animals, for which one has taken good care, being slaughtered. This can be a significant dent in the morale of those farmers involved. In the end, this will have family consequences. We need to look at how we can support these people not only financially but also familially and morally? Farmers At a crossroads expressed concern at the way farmers will be paid out and the amount they will receive. It is true that there are market prices in agriculture, but these are not always the real prices the farmer gets. The farmer often gets a supplement and just that supplement makes the farm liveable, makes the difference between working with loss or just break-even on the one hand and working with profit on the other. There is therefore a very urgent demand for realistic compensation for these companies. What measures will be taken if contamination occurs? Who did you sit at the table with? What is the real outcome of these consultations? We have already received a short reply in plenary. But perhaps you could briefly repeat what is going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u4	Madam President, as you have wished, I can only respond positively to your request and I will be well below the regulatory time of four times two minutes. Just sum up the questions. Mr Minister, I have already had the opportunity to question you on Wednesday at current affairs, but in a timely manner. I will therefore go back to a number of points, to which I have not received an answer. The context is known: the arrival of this scourge on our territory and a new tragedy for the agricultural world - we are all moved - with in-depth several recurring markers. First of all, I note a background of dubious practices, namely the introduction of banned substances into the hens (fipronil), which was the outdated meat market and the use of social fraud in the Veviba case and today are suspicions of illegal imports of wild boar from the Eastern countries. To this we must add an overall feeling of two opposing worlds: on the one hand, that of proximity, of bio, of short circuits and, on the other hand, that of industry, of intensive farming and of export. Finally, there is a "style of crisis management", as my colleague Senesael had said in his time, of a Matamoresque attitude. On the other hand, there is something that changes the situation and I cannot blame you for it: it is the time for reaction. In the Veviba case, it took 18 months to put an end to problematic health violations. And in this case, the decision to sacrifice healthy pigs was made in just 10 days! A sector that represents 15,000 jobs in the pig sector, with an annual production value of 1.5 billion and, therefore, a huge challenge, since it is an important pillar of our economy. I would like to return to my question on preventive and upstream work, for which I did not get a clear answer last Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u5	I wish I'd given them to you, Mr. Frédéric, but the time...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u6	Yes, yes! In fact, I thank you for giving us a little time for lunch, and I am glad to hear that. Since the arrival of this disease was planned and given the place occupied by the pig industry in the structure of Walloon agriculture, how was this contamination anticipated? For several months now, a task force has been set up under the aegis of the AFSCA, which brings together several federal and regional services. Is there any record of the work of this task force? Has it made any recommendations to the various governments? How have they been implemented, if any? It would be very interesting to know. Indeed, since the discovery of cases of contaminated wild boar, the official thesis is that of a human cause, namely contamination by clothes, a truck or food. However, since the beginning of the crisis, several witnesses, under cover of anonymity, have denounced illegal imports of wild boar from Eastern Europe. The services of the Walloon Region, Department of Nature & Forests (DNF) and the Anti-Brush Unit (UAB) indicate that they have never established a PV for such offences. While rumours of such waste have been circulating for several months or even years, have your services or the AFSCA task force asked the federal police or local police to be particularly vigilant about this type of transport? In the last ten years, have trucks carrying live game been checked on Belgian territory? Where and when, if any, have these controls taken place? What was the destination of the controlled trucks? Belgium has several wild boar farms. How does the AFSCA monitor the health status of the animals there? That was the subject of my first question! Since the discovery of cases of infected wild boar, several countries have blocked imports of Belgian pigs. In this context, what is the estimated economic loss as a result of this embargo? Is there any idea of other countries' intentions on the subject? Since the outbreak of the disease in our territory, how do prices change in the pig sector within and outside the confined area? Is there evidence of price declines in other sectors than pork? That's my second question! My third question concerns the strategy followed to prevent the spread of the disease. Several measures have been taken: the isolation of a perimeter of 63 000 hectares, the prohibition of hunting and feeding and, today, the systematic slaughter of pigs. Minister, I wish you had come back to this radical decision and provided us with a precise explanation of the decision-making process. What is the process that led you to this decision? Who did you consult? What were the alternatives to these provisions? What is the specific factor that determined your choice? On Wednesday, you said that the decision had been taken in close consultation with the European Commission. However, from a legal point of view, there is no doubt that the power to order the slaughter or killing of animals is a sovereign competence, which belongs to the minister. Moreover, the ministerial decree published last night makes good reference to Article 9a of the Act of 24 March 1987 on animal health, which states that: "The Minister shall be authorized, in the event of serious danger of contamination, to take any measures of control, including the slaughter or killing of animals." It is therefore you who have decided on this measure. It was not imposed on you by Europe. Minister, is there anything funny?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u7	Mr. Frédéric, don't be distracted!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u8	I don't let myself be distracted, but I like to know if I said something funny. Until then, I had the feeling that there was nothing funny and that the situation was rather painful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u9	I'll confirm you're not funny.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u10	I'm going on. Since then, we have read several statements. On the one hand, the Boerenbond, the union of the Flemish agro-industry, recalled in a press release on Monday that its pig sector division had already asked last week to eliminate all pigs from the buffer zone. We also read in the press that you have had to deal with urgent requests for compensation from your colleague the Flemish Minister of Agriculture. On the other hand, as I said on Wednesday, Walloon federations were not consulted upstream. The Walloon Federation of Agriculture (FWA) complained about this. The Belgian Meat Federation (FEBEV) has multiplied the questions on compensation. The United Federation of Farmers' and Farmers' Groups (FUGEA) denounced "the total absurdity of the measure". The FUGEA continues to deplore a measure taken "by means of a coin-cutter". Mr Minister, there is therefore an impression, in public opinion, that you have not defended the Walloon pigs. It is clear that consultation with the southern federations took place only after the decision had been taken. The impression is that you have received your orders from the Flemish industry. I indicated it on Wednesday; you denied it, but I reiterate it. That is why I am asking you about the decision-making process. On the other hand, Minister, we feel that you have carried out an impulsive policy, without mastering all the effects it implements. On Sunday evening, you announce the measurement of systematic slaughter, while the ministerial decree is not yet drafted. A period of uncertainty opens up for farmers: they are sometimes told that there is no question of touching their animals while waiting for the killing, sometimes they can slaughter them for their personal consumption, sometimes we are in a state of law and, until the death order is published and entered into force, they can value their animals. I read in the press this morning that Virton's slaughterhouse had been in full swing in recent days. Rarely have we seen such a flow of animals coming out of the farm in the direction of the slaughterhouse! Minister, in this case, have the health risks of contamination been limited or multiplied? How did the Federal Food Chain Security Agency (FCSA) coordinate this? Have you mastered this process? If you tell me that everything happened perfectly in health, so much the better! So could we not have continued a few more days to avoid euthanasia of all these pigs? Beyond these questions, there is also the problem of the repopulation of sacrificed farms. Article 5 of the ministerial decree issued last night states that "it is prohibited to repopulate pig farms located in the infected area". What will become of the breeders concerned? For restocking, your colleague Minister Collin spoke of 18 months: at least six months to eradicate infected wild boar and 12 months of monitoring imposed by Europe. Colleague vote Collin has also suggested in the press that the activity be reoriented in other farming sectors. Are these measures currently on your table? Finally, in general, how do you assess our chances of containing the disease? Who are the interlocutors you are consulting today to define your strategy? Yesterday, in the press, the veterinarians complained of not being heard, while they have expertise. Are you going to fix it? What's the calendar? How will the struggle take place over the long term? Let me conclude with the question of compensation. You wanted to reassure by stating that the compensations would take into account the market price, but also the type of livestock – organic or industrial – and that the costs of expertise will be included in the calculation of the compensations. In fact, the analysis of the Ministerial Order shows that, in terms of compensation, you strictly adhered to the framework set out in the Royal Decree of 19 March 2004. You'll explain it to me. Maybe I misunderstood it, I concede it. If I'm not funny, sometimes I don't understand everything. In this context, Minister, my questions are as follows. The compensation shall be borne by the Budget Fund for Animal Health and Quality, within the limits of the budget article. Can you now give an estimate of the total amount of compensation? It is known that the pig sector strategic reserve of the budget fund for animal health and quality was set at EUR 24 789 000 by decision of the Council of Ministers of 12 December 1996. Since then, she has never been seen again. Do you think today that this amount will be enough to cover all the damage? Article 16 of the Royal Decree of 2004 states: "The value of pigs to be killed shall be determined by an expert according to a table of values approved by the Board of the Fund and with the consent of the Minister." Who is this expert? Has the table of values been closed? Can you explain how it works? Finally, the ministerial decree issued last night only provides for compensation per head of livestock killed. The compensation does not cover the investments that have been made. It does not cover the damage caused by the holding being stopped for at least 18 months. What are you planning then to ensure the survival of the farmers concerned? How will you ensure the sustainability of their operations? Here, Madam Chair, in less than eight minutes, my four questions are grouped together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u11	You spoke eight big minutes, Mr. Frédéric.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u12	We have already had an opportunity to discuss this important issue in plenary. The situation is indeed serious. The sector rightly calls for strong signals on a number of fronts, namely the reduction of the spread of the disease, export and compensation for affected companies. We support that question. You have already announced measures. For example, in order to prevent the spread of the disease, pigs will be disposed of in a certain region. That is a painful, difficult and delicate decision. On the basis of the opinions of the Agrofont, we can conclude that we must support these measures. It is important that the problem does not expand. It is therefore necessary to take strong action. Minister, you have announced that there will be a ministerial decision. I have just heard that the decision was published yesterday. That is indeed a step forward. We are very concerned about exports. Belgian exports of pigmeat must be protected as much as possible. Therefore, the agricultural organisations are asking for a task force, an export cell, to limit the impact on Belgian exports and, where necessary, to provide for additional measures in order to safeguard exports. I would like to know what your view is, Minister. Do you agree to the creation of such an export cell? Have you taken any steps to this end? The export of Belgian pork is very important for the sector. Now countries are threatening to suspend imports of Belgian pork. Some speak of 13 countries. Other sources refer to 19 countries. It is important that the matter is properly monitored. Can you give us an update on the possible suspension of imports of Belgian pigmeat? What measures will you take to avoid this as much as possible? The swine fever is dramatic for all pig farmers throughout the country. It is therefore undoubtedly interesting to contact the countries concerned. Have you taken any steps to this end? One final aspect concerns the fees. I believe that no one can oppose the reimbursement, guidance and follow-up of companies affected both directly and indirectly. In addition to financial support, I urge them to be supported in human terms as well. The consequences are dramatic when pig farmers suddenly see a life's work ruined. They must therefore be accompanied and supported without doubt. I have already put a number of very specific questions in plenary. I'll repeat them. This is specifically about the fees. Will compensation be provided for the animals removed and the operational costs incurred? Will there also be an emptying fee for the farms in the demarcated areas that have been cleared up? Finally, can European support also be expected? Have you got eyes on that yet? What budgets have been set aside for this? Another delicate aspect is the cause of African swine fever. That's what the weirdest stories are about. I will not comment on that, because there are several slopes being cited. However, I would like people to look at what is causing this and how we can avoid it in the future. After all, the outbreak in our country is a tragedy and we need all hands on deck to avoid it in the future. Further dissemination must also be avoided. I will leave it at that, as far as my questions are concerned, so that colleagues also have time to ask questions. In any case, Minister, thank you for your vigorous action. We are satisfied with your good follow-up and we are counting on it to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u13	I heard, Mr Minister, during the plenary session your answers and your reaction to this tragedy. It seems to me that it can be described as a tragedy and I am sure that you yourself are extremely affected by this scourge which is falling on our territory and which once again affects an agricultural sector which has already heavily paid a tribe in other branches, probably. But in this case, the situation is extremely serious. You have taken a decision in consultation and in the opinion of several bodies, a decision weighed to carry out the slaughter of the animals when they are not contaminated, as we know, and that at this stage not a single pig was. Do not take as a criticism from the opposition benches the fact that we would have done otherwise! The decisions you have made are serious and difficult. Take this instead as a reflection: why this decision? What is the advisability of this decision, which can be described as radical? We have all seen this image at the JT of the RTBF of this farmer in tears at the end of his exploitation and no one, I think, can remain insensitive, and I am sure you are not. I think that if you took this decision with your opinion, there was certainly a compelling reason to take it. I do not want to hear that there would be Community interests behind it. I would like to hear the compelling reason for public health. Were there other alternatives? Maybe they exist. In the press, for example, a number of experts have expressed their support for the containment of animals, which would have made it possible to protect and avoid contamination. I have no advice to give you, but the most important, most political message you have to convey is that this decision was made because there were no alternatives and it is not motivated by low political and Community interests. This must be understood not only by political representatives but also by public opinion, which questions itself. The other major issue, for many months for people like me in the countryside on hunting grounds, has been the illegal importation of animals from Eastern countries. Are these legends? Have any checks of your services or through the federal police found illegal transportation from Eastern countries for hunting? These include wild boars. Could they be responsible for the current contamination in our territory? Some farmers are talking about it; some hunters are half-worded. Is that proven? We need to talk about it. It's an essential element. My third point concerns the logistics of slaughter. Have we already identified the proportion of pigs that will be euthanized or slaughtered? The press is already relaying the fact that slaughterhouses are running at full speed. What's the status of the contacts? Some apparently agreed to take over part of the slaughter. Are you considering requisitioning some of them? The question relating to the appropriateness of slaughter relates to fair compensation. You argued in plenary that organic or classical farming is not entitled to the same compensation. There are also all the investments undertaken for these farms. Will compensation take into account these investments? Can you confirm that farmers will be compensated at one time, without having to wait for the 50% compensation paid by the European Commission? Waiting times are sometimes long, as you know. What is the status of the contacts with Kris Peeters regarding the economic unemployment of these herders? How long will they be entitled to this economic unemployment? How will the amount of allowances be determined? As far as the containment area itself is concerned, it is 67,000 hectares. Nevertheless, infected carcasses were detected in a circumscribed area. Would it not be possible to define a more restricted area within the area where restocking is prohibited so that fewer farms are affected? To avoid any risk of recontamination, have any specific measures been taken in coordination with the relevant ministers? This risk must be minimized and the transport of goods or the posting of workers is dangerous. As far as contacts with the distribution sector are concerned, some giants in this sector, such as Carrefour or Intermarché, have chosen to braid pork meat. This logic is purely commercial since there is no risk to human health and is likely to aggravate the situation of the entire livestock sector already heavily affected. Have any contacts been made with the distribution sector, in particular Comeos? What will be done with the meat from the 4,000 pigs that will be slaughtered? We know that this meat is fit for consumption, it is not infected. What to do with it? We cannot flood the market, the prices would be affected. The destruction of these goods also raises the ethical question of the extreme poverty of a large number of people. Have we thought about food banks, a whole range of other organizations, or solidarity initiatives that could welcome this meat for consumption? Finally, what about the controls on pigmeat imported from countries where plague occurs? How to reassure the consumer? Thank you for taking the time this morning to answer our questions in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u14	Madam President, thank you for my brief and specific questions. As Mr Dierick said, the situation is serious, but we would like to show the Minister our appreciation for the swift and firm approach he has taken to this crisis. I have two specific questions. Firstly, last Wednesday a meeting took place with the main stakeholders in this sector. It was striking that the transport sector was not at the table. Was there a specific reason for this? If so, what was the reason? The damage to the transport sector and to trade in general must be limited. Today there is a ban on the collection of pigs from different locations. Pigs from a holding must be loaded in an empty vehicle which must be driven from the pig farm linea recta to the destination, which has a huge impact on the sector. Secondly, we have heard that a number of slaughterhouses would be temporarily stalled because the supply of pigs is decreasing due to reduced exports. In addition, most slaughterhouses fear a decline in their activity in the near future. That is why the RVA applied for economic unemployment for their employees, but now it appears that the RVA is refusing these applications. Is there a reason for this refusal? It seems logical to me that you should address this as a point of interest to your colleague Mr Peeters, who is responsible for employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u15	As far as I'm concerned, I'll go into a few questions. First, a question about "the front". For a long time, AFSCA has been instructing veterinarians and hunters to adopt precautionary behaviours. It has therefore anticipated and for a long time it has been known that this virus is circulating and that the risks are present. I would like to know what was the assessment of the success of the follow-up to these measures. The AFSCA did its job, but how it was followed, respected. Do we already know how to look at or evaluate this? In the case of importations of pigs, in cooperation with customs, police, etc., does the AFSCA have the ability to see, assess, monitor or control imports of wild boar - which are not farmed pigs. I believe, however, that she must have expertise in this area. I would like to know how we can control or guard against such things. Veterinarians, who have been sensitized by AFSCA for a long time, show up today by saying that they have been working for ten years to try to avoid contamination and protect livestock etc. and that they have not been consulted in the implementation of the measures you have just taken, including slaughter, while they have expertise to put on the table. I'd like to know why they weren't partners and if they're going to be partners from now on. Among the assumptions of contamination are the importation of wild boars and there is this human factor - either by importing meat or in other ways - which, on the other hand, is permanent and still present. When you carry healthy pigs from one place to another and cross the contaminated area, there is also a risk of contamination somewhere. Like when there was a football match in Virton (it was yesterday or the day before yesterday) with 4,700 people among whom supporters of the Ghent team - Ghent won - who partyed and some of whom I think, on their way home, had to stop along the way and go on the shoulder in the infected area. I therefore think that the human factor is permanently present. How can we ensure control of people travelling in this area? As for the farms where the Ghent supporters are going to return, have they not been potentially exposed? If we start from this principle, the areas and farms concerned are likely to increase sharply. How can this dimension be integrated into the monitoring of things? How is it that the elimination of wild boars takes as much time compared to the elimination of pigs? It is obviously easier, the latter are locked up, while the former are still circulating. We know that the contaminated wild boars are in the triangle of the roads above Virton. There are other disposal techniques than hunting with dogs. There is a way to eliminate wild boars so that they don't scatter. I would also be interested to have your explanation on this. Of course, I spoke in plenary on slaughter. It is still striking that a ministerial decree has been announced since the beginning and that it took several days for the breeders to know that they could kill for their personal consumption. The deadline was then extended until last night. Some breeders were given the opportunity to shoot for their personal consumption, and then with permission to sell on-site in a short circuit. Meat is also stored in a refrigerator. The carcasses of future slaughters will no longer be put to consumption, if I have understood the requirements correctly. I think there is really a great disarray, a difficulty in understanding the evolution of things. With regard to the compensation that will result, the organic farmers have told me that their lineage is completely ravaged. There's nothing left. They have to do it all over again. Not all breeding sows have been recorded as such. Compensation is therefore likely to be lower than the actual value. I am told that it takes two years from the moment we discover swine fever to the moment when we can start the activity again and it takes another twelve months to get a pig. So it takes three years before we can sell organic meat again. Meanwhile, organic pork will be imported from outside, as is already the case because we do not produce enough in relation to demand. As much as we are rightly concerned about the difficulty of exporting, so much more attention must be paid to local production for local, Belgian, quality meat consumption so as not to be dependent on imports which risk, in the long term, killing our trade. Minister, how is this taken into account? What will be the compensation of the breeders in view of the losses they suffer? I would like more information than you were able to give in plenary. Minister, I give you the floor. I will then give the floor to those members who wish to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u16	Madam President, on the basis of the information available to me today, my answer will probably be cross-cutting. I will make incises concerning the more detailed and precise questions that parliamentarians have asked. I thank the parliamentarians who stressed the importance of the speed of the reaction we have been working with. But I do not want, as some of you have been able to do, to ignore the human catastrophe that this represents for a number of farmers. We're talking about social and economic shocks. I've had many breeders from the infected area on the phone. I've met some of them. Mrs Matz, I think you alluded to Mr Dubois whom I met. When such a decision is made, it's about making support contacts at the human level – that's what we tried to do. Mr. Dubois is in shock. Nevertheless, it supports this measure. As he said on the RTBF plateau on Wednesday, he believes that this is the only possible way to save the pig industry in our country. These people are experiencing dramatic moments. We have made sure that we are at their side, not just on a technical level. The work carried out in the province of Luxembourg by the local control unit of the AFSCA is a constant accompaniment to transmit information and answer questions but also to humanly support these people. That is why, Mr Frédéric, I regret that, in a situation like this, you are giving yourself a few low-level political games which, in my opinion, do not have their place in what we are going through today in the head of these farmers but also in that of the whole pig sector. It's a moral shock for these people. I think that we must try to raise the political debate to the point where we can respond in the greatest dignity possible to these difficulties. It is my responsibility, as a federal minister, to deal with the health issue. It is not my job to work economically for the future – the Regions take care of it – or to investigate import fraud. An investigating judge has been appointed and I hope that all the clarity can be made. Whether there has been import fraud or road transport is at the root of the problem, I hope that the truth can be updated. In any case, it is clear that it is the man who is guilty of bringing the swine fever virus to Belgium. It's obvious. The investigation will determine how. It was a matter of taking action very quickly. Mr. Frédéric, you're asking me if we couldn't have given you a few more days. No, every day that passes is an additional risk to the pig industry in our country, exposing it to the threat of contamination. That is why we have taken this step with complacency, so quickly, after the consultations that I will indicate in response to your questions on the decision-making process. This extremely difficult decision was taken in reason, exchange, on the basis of scientific analyses. It's probably one of the toughest decisions I've had to make since I got involved in politics. We have drawn on the advice of experts who have been working with the European Commission for years and who have been able to follow up on other cases of swine fever in Europe. Nine countries were affected. These experts were able to see the effects of the measures taken in those countries. We are implementing a scheme comparable to what has been done in the Czech Republic. The countries that have followed this path and the advice of the European Commission have been able to stop the spread of African swine fever. It is useful for me to review all the measures taken by the AFSCA. Indeed, we knew that we would be affected, but we did not know when that would happen. We've been ready for several months. A task force had been set up with the AFSCA, the Regions and all the actors involved. That's what allowed us to be so reactive. The work went beyond the preparation of this collaboration. There has been awareness-raising work for consumers who may return with food products from foreign countries affected by African swine fever. Posters were posted at the airports. Contacts were made with the Mobility FPS to raise awareness at the transport level. Informational posters were glued along motorways and in motorway parking lots. Specific training was organized by the Walloon Region at the level of ULC (local control units) and officers of the Department of Nature and Forestry (DNF). This, moreover, helped to detect the problem so quickly. DNF agents were sensitized and trained about swine fever and were able to see on the corpses the symptoms of swine fever in the area. Purchases of specific equipment and disinfection equipment, clothing and products were made. The laboratories were ready to work on the analyses confirming or not the cases of swine fever. Control work was carried out in the area by the AFSCA. This area of infection has been determined on the basis of European standards. Following the identification of a number of outbreaks of carcase-related infections, this area has been identified. Today's concern stems from the fact that the new cases seen the home, which was quite central to the infected area, is widening and in some cases even bordering the current infected area. It was therefore on the basis of European standards that the Region was able to determine precisely the perimeter of the infected area. With the AFSCA, we were able to take steps to recall, control biosecurity measures. These must of course have been installed in the area, but must also be installed elsewhere. I want to stress that the contacts made by ULC agents have been individualised with all operators in the area. I want to highlight the quality of their work and their mobilization. With regard to the measures taken at the level of the Walloon region, I am not the Walloon Minister and cannot speak for him. But it should be stressed that collaboration with the Region is optimal. I don't remember seeing regional and federal ministers working together so effectively. In a year, habits have changed. We can only congratulate ourselves on that. We need closeness to the decisions we make and to the exchange of information, consultation or consultation. What is true about the excellent cooperation with Minister Collin is also true with the Flemish Minister, with whom contact is also permanent and with which all channels are open. To be able to work in this way, by putting the political aspects aside, is an added value in managing a crisis that must see us perfectly brought together. Although this is a regional decision, I still want to support Minister Collin's positions on wild boar. I'm not the minister responsible for wildlife. Everyone knows that since the 1980s this matter has been regionalised. My father was already Minister of Hunting and Wildlife in the 1980s. Everyone knows that, I hope. It is therefore not up to the federal government to decide to slaughter the wild boars. If today the wild boars are not shot down, it is because according to the permanent contacts between the Region and the European Commission, if we cut them down now, we would do worse than better. In Poland, they fired the wild boar too quickly, which led to a disaster, since the wild boar spread beyond the first defined infected areas. It spread the virus. Today, the Region determines, with even greater precision, the infected area. Their intention is to make arrangements as soon as possible for these wild boars to be slaughtered. This was decided in a very close consultation with the experts of the European Commission and the AFSCA officials. In this context, consultations were held very quickly after the discovery of the phenomenon in our country. On the basis of previous meetings with the AFSCA, we have been able to isolate this path with the support of the European Commission. In addition to formal support, the Commission also intends to finance 50 per cent of health compensation, which we will return to. I'm not improvising myself scientific or expert. When it comes to politics, we must rely on the best experts, on their expertise, on the findings they have been able to draw on the experience of other countries. Indeed, we are proceeding in a manner comparable to what was done in the Czech Republic. On the basis of these exchanges, the decision had to be taken and once it had been taken, I informed my regional colleagues and had contacts with a number of agricultural representatives before making this information public. Why so fast? Because we have to go fast. As I said, we don't have time to wait. Every day that passes is a threat and an additional risk. If we hadn't acted so quickly, the same would have told us the opposite as they say today, that we should have acted more quickly. It was on the basis of the opinions of the experts that we decided to act so quickly. There is obviously a health aspect. Today's problem concerns about 4,000 pigs. If we do not put all the chances on our side to avoid the spread, tomorrow the problem will arise, in a more catastrophic way on the human, social and economic level, at the scale of a country whose population on the territory amounts to more than six million pigs. We need to be able to measure this. It would be a health disaster if the entire pig industry were affected. As several colleagues have said, there would be a heavy impact on employment: 15 000 direct jobs. We are not even talking about indirect jobs here. Economically, too, the shock would be terrible. It is in this sense that we follow the advice given to us at European level and this decision has been taken. There is a rather sloppy element, Mr Frédéric, forgive me for the term, but I find that, in a situation like this, it is almost disgusting to say that this decision would have been taken on a Community basis. It is also a perfect stalemate on 551 farms in Wallonia where pig farmers must also be protected as well as their sector. Yes, there are more pigs reared in Flanders, yes there are 4000 farms, but I hope that farmers in Wallonia will not see your statements presented publicly. The contacts we have in this context are quite clear: they support this measure. They live it very badly but they support it because they know that this measure has been weighed, reasoned, analysed and concerted. I would like to recall that the Agro-Front is composed of the ABS and the Boerenbond, Mr Frédéric, but also of the Walloon Federation of Agriculture which I received at my cabinet on Wednesday. It was the whole of Agro-Front that supported this measure, Mr Frédéric, including the Walloon Federation of Agriculture. It is all the recognized unions, Mr. Frédéric, who support - while living it badly - this measure, in the same way as the Interdepartmental Conference which is composed of Joke Schauvliege and Minister Collin and Minister Fremault. The reality is that! It seems to me that on this issue we should avoid political games and sleeve effects. The situation today is far too serious. I will not go back to your remarks about veterinarians. We are in contact with them and they also support this measure. I hear working in the most perfect proximity to them. A meeting has also been scheduled in my office as far as they are concerned. The decision was necessary not only from a health perspective but also from an economic perspective. Our pig sector is focused on exports, with a degree of self-sufficiency of more than 252 %. Thus, the establishment of a fireplace of African swine fever is also very worrying for the holdings in the pig sector that export. Yesterday 13 countries, including China, suspended their imports of Belgian pork. Those decisions don't come as a surprise. They result from the automatic application of bilateral trade agreements with those countries. These agreements lay down the automatic introduction of the measure once our country is affected by African swine fever, despite the fact that our pig sector remains completely healthy. In addition, yesterday we were informed that India and Ukraine have decided on a unilateral embargo. As a direct result, pig farmers have unsaleable animals, particularly in the infected zone. It was therefore also necessary to take draconian measures to avoid a transfer of the epidemic of boars from the infected zone to domestic pigs. If that last hypothesis were to become a reality, the crisis could take much longer and be much worse with even more consequences for exports. If we want to regain the status of 'free from swine fever' and a reliable reputation in the eyes of other countries and also of consumers, that would take at least two years. It is a question, Mr. Frédéric, of assessing the cost. I can already inform you that for the total exports of Belgian pigs to the countries I mentioned, the first thirteen for which we already had information in the trade protocol plus India and Ukraine, the impact was 60,000 tonnes in 2017, representing 7.5% of Belgian pig exports for this year. This figure can be explained by the fact that the vast majority of exports of Belgian pigmeat, in particular 93%, go to other Member States of the European Union. European legislation prevents the Member States of the European Union from unilaterally imposing a sanitary embargo on intra-Community trade as long as the pig sector remains free from African swine fever. Fortunately, that is the case. As far as third countries are concerned, I work with our embassies and customs attachés abroad and they regularly inform us about the situation of the embargo. I would also point out that messages are being sent through our diplomatic channels to reassure third countries and to try to get exports back on track as soon as possible. The BFSA is also committed to informing and reassuring third countries about the fact that the Belgian pig sector is free of African swine fever. Some clarifications regarding the Ministerial Order. I explained the development. In the field, all contacts are made with the local authorities, the governor, the herders. Many meetings were held yesterday with the herders in order to organise the execution of the decree. All the mayors of the area were also brought together yesterday with AFSCA to prepare the modalities of this operation. They are responsible for its application for holdings holding less than 10 pigs. To this end, each mayor will have to designate a veterinarian to prepare an inventory of the pigs to be euthanized, while mentioning their categorization. On holdings with at least 10 pigs, the estimate will be made by an expert. The number of animals present, the production categories and the average weight will be taken into account. I will go back to that in detail under the compensation component. All operations must be completed by Tuesday night at the latest. That is for the elements of implementation on the ground! The aim is to make provision for health compensation. As federal minister, I am responsible for the health compensation component. But in economic terms, this matter is the responsibility of the Region. And I certify that she is working very concretely on the analysis of the routes of support to the breeders in this area, since the decree provides for the depopulation of the area. We will have to be completely assured of the total eradication of the virus before giving the farms the opportunity to repopulate the area. On the basis of the scientific communications transmitted to us, it is a virus that remains in the environment for a very long time. This virus contaminates a number of products consumed by the boar affected via saliva or urine. We cannot therefore hope that there will be a repopulation of the area before 18 months. It's huge. This information was provided to me by Minister Collin. I fully support the Region in the effort it will have to make in this context. I believe that this should not be his sole responsibility. We have therefore made the European Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Hogan, aware together. I was able to meet him personally on Monday at the European Council of Agriculture Ministers in Vienna to raise his awareness. Through Minister Collin, I know that an appointment has been set with Mr Hogan quickly enough to see to what extent the European Commission can help the Walloon Region and especially its herders for the future, for the economic support to be given. As regards compensation - and I would like to thank the work of DG 4 which has been very fast - we want above all to see health compensation paid as quickly as possible. We commit to activate the refund as quickly as possible as soon as the breeder has completed his file. To do this, the ULC (AFSCA) will also be a close support for the preparation of the file. Compared to the overall budget, there are still a number of elements to be refined. As soon as I have a figure from DG 4 and my administration in this context, I will pass it on so that you can have it. I am still waiting for a more precise analysis before communicating the figure envisaged. As I have told you, the European Commission supports the 50 % health measure. This is important not only in terms of solidarity but also because the budget fund for animal health and quality is fed by farmers and private operators. So that's the money from the sector. Being able to count on support of 50% saves part of the Fund's budget. Mrs Matz, we will not wait until we receive the European subsidy for farmers to receive 100% compensation. The Animal Health Fund will advance the European side. We have also wanted – and I would like to highlight the quality of the work of the Fund and DG4 in this context – to have health compensation which takes account of a number of specific characteristics of livestock farms. Mr Frédéric, there is no statutory provision for a number of differences, for example between the bio and the conventional, in respect of this compensation. However, the difference can be made between organic and conventional farms, as the Fund agreed on the basis of DG4 proposals in this respect. This means that organic farming will be more compensated than traditional farming. We also want compensation to be based on a market price that is not today's. Today, it is 86 cents per kilo. Of course, it is a matter of taking a reference that is not that of the market today, since there is a fall in the price. In assessing compensation, we will therefore rely on the price in force five weeks before the start of the crisis. So we'll be around 1 euro per kilo. You talked about the technical aspect. We wanted the expert fees not to be borne by the farmer but by the Animal Health Fund. The expertise will therefore be carried out by representatives of DG4, supported by a number of other actors. We also wanted to make sure that the food purchased by these farmers and not consumed by the animals could also be reimbursed. The costs of slaughter are naturally borne by the AFSCA. We had to be able to support farmers in the area very concretely and very quickly. Some of them won't be active. Others will continue their operations if the pig is not their only holding. But in any case, I have asked the social funds of the self-employed to treat as a matter of priority the applications received by these farmers from their social fund for the deferral or exemption of social contributions. I therefore ask them to contact their caisse in order to consider, if they so wish, the treatment of the postponement or exemption within a sufficiently short period of time, so that they can at least have this relief. It is not huge, but it is already an additional support. There are few employees in the area, but there are still some. I have contacted my colleague Mr Kris Peeters in order to be able to activate economic unemployment for wage-earners in the light of the situation of force majeure. I have his agreement, even if it still needs to be formalized. This will allow employees to see that this measure is activated. I think it's important. Madam President, I have tried to answer as many questions as possible. I'll check here again if there's anything I've forgotten. With respect to controls, the AFSCA is responsible for game when it comes to making meat. It should be recalled that the importation of game for other purposes, such as those mentioned in the media, is illegal. This is reflected in regional legislation. AFSCA also participates in certain customs controls. Why do we act like we do? We are not the first European country to face African swine fever and where pig farms have their animals eliminated. Other countries have done so as a preventive measure. We are in a European dynamic. We're talking about containment. However, the objective here is to achieve the health vacuum, to empty the infected area of the suiids host of the virus. According to the experts, it is thus, by operating the health vacuum in the area, that we give ourselves the most chance – because it is not certain that, thanks to this measure, we will have no other problem – to see a non-propagation of the virus. It is to be hoped that, beyond the slaughter of pigs, with the assistance of the Region, it will be possible to carry out the slaughter of wild boars as soon as possible, in accordance with the more precise definition of the infected area and with the cooperation of European experts. In any case, if the wild boars were shot today, it would be worse than better. But as long as the wild boars are here, the threat is still running. We will pay the allowance once, before the end of the year. The faster the files are set up, the faster we can compensate. If the breeders go to the Local Control Unit (ULC) to be supported in the constitution of the file, it can go very quickly. This has been confirmed to me by the heads of the fund and DG4. Someone talked about the way the distribution works today. I'll have contact with Comeos, the Trade and Services Federation, this afternoon. I find it shameful the attitude of some of the players in the large distribution sector, Mrs Matz. Today some people act differently: Delhaize, for example, made a communication that this company wanted, in times like this, to work with the breeders based on the right price. Other signs, on the other hand, rob the pig. I repeat this publicly and say it to Comeos: I believe that at this time this attitude does not breathe responsibility or solidarity. We are entitled to expect more inspired attitudes in the head of our distribution. I confirm that I will have contact with Comeos in this context. Ladies and gentlemen, if you agree and if, like me, you are shocked by the attitude of the great distribution, I invite you to say so, to make it known and not to hesitate to name those who have a positive attitude towards those who have one that I call without hesitation shameful. I think I've been around.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u17	Let us give the floor to the members of the committee. If there is anything missing, the members will not fail to stress it. We shall resume, following the order of the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for your comprehensive reply, and for the range of measures and consultations with all possible bodies. I agree with you that we must do everything we can to prevent the spread of the disease and to limit further economic damage. I'm glad there's been an investigation into the cause of the swine fever. I am also pleased with your last remark, as I have already said in plenary, that it is scandalous that certain sectors would take advantage of the situation to push the price down and push the pig farmers even more into the swamp. We absolutely must condemn that. I would like to insist on an early payment, if necessary in disks. You state yourself that that raft can happen at once. This is necessary if we want the companies concerned to survive. That is why we need help in drawing up the files so that we do not lose ourselves in the administrative mill. People who suffer from misery already have enough to deal with. I have one small comment to make. Exemption from social security contributions means that they are exempt. Delay, on the other hand, works like a boomerang, because the social contributions due sooner or later return to the people's plate. I'm a little afraid of that. Moreover, there is little use of the possibility of exemption. It would be good to investigate why and what we can do about it. However, that is a concern for later. First, we must eliminate swine fever and ensure that our farmers can survive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u19	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the minister for the comprehensiveness of his answer. We found in this speech a number of answers to our questions, but not all of them. In our situation, there are priorities and emergencies, and I can understand that. I will therefore come back to the elements for which I would not have been able to find an answer. I think there is a misunderstanding, minister, in your perception of what I have expressed. I stressed the speed of the intervention, and I did not criticise it. I said you took ten days to react. I do not see how this should be viewed as a criticism on my part. You talked about "low-lying politicians." All right. I don't see where they live, and I wanted to make it clear. As regards the commutation of the case, you yourself said that, in order to give you an opinion as a minister, you had to rely on advice from scientists. As for me, in order to do my work as a parliamentarian, I have to question you, and you find that I assault you or bother you. I am still only doing my work as a parliamentarian, and I can only rely on the information available to me. In the press, you say that the Walloon federations are all in agreement and that they all support. Okay, but I couldn't do anything but say what they said and repeated for a whole week. They said that it was abusive, excessive, too fast, and that they had not been invited to a consultation until Wednesday. I didn't see anything else in the gazettes. If you find that I am commuting the debate simply by highlighting this fact or by asking you about it, it is an overstatement. The same applies to veterinarians. I'm not a veterinarian either. I'm a modest teacher. I just read that the veterinarians said two things. They agreed with the measure, which I read and understood. This merely confirmed the decision taken. And they said that they had not been asked for their opinion when they had expertise. It is quite normal for us to wonder about this, unless you think otherwise. As far as the preventive aspect is concerned, I have obtained more precise answers which satisfy me. [[They relate to the work carried out by the AFSCA Task Force on preliminary information.]] You alluded to it. I still keep in one corner of my head that if ever this hypothesis of the transfer of wild boars from Eastern countries to our territories was to be confirmed, I would like to see a joint action carried out with the services of the interior. It is entrusted to a judge, as you said. These services are responsible for controlling road traffic and may be able to intervene effectively to this end. I didn't say it was a miracle solution, but in any case, it would seem to me to be the piece missing from the device. You've clarified the work of the AFSCA. For my information, I would be interested to see what recommendations have been made clearly over time. As far as compensation is concerned, you provide clear answers. Of course, I have no doubt about your determination, but we are too accustomed, (all politicians, all generations combined, because we allude to "before a year, after a year"), to hear "we're going to do this". And finally, we realize on the ground, that there is not much concrete. What scares me is when you announced that there was a file to fill in. Many people have experienced disasters in that country. My commune, more than 20 years ago, experienced an explosion with dead people at the key. We were told at the time that we would be compensated, but I assure you that when we talk about a file to be filled in, it worries. Also, I really invite you and I think that the local administrations concerned should be able to furnish staff alongside the decentralized AFSCA, in a pro-active way, to help people complete these files, and that they are not systematically subject to sub-questions, to "step 1, type 2, type 3" when they call and finally, to say, "We're going to be compensated". In fact, it is now that farmers need these financial means, especially since they are told that we will take into account a number of factors: we will take into account the price (not only the current price, but the price in force 5 weeks ago) of the type of livestock (bio or not), but the one whose almost essential activity is based on the raising of pork has reason to worry by saying: "What am I going to live for in the next 18 months or more?" In this regard, I really draw your attention, Minister. I have no doubt about your intention. But I've heard too many "it's gonna be okay," "you'll see." It is even daring for you to declare that the case will be settled by the end of December. We have a real interest in mobilizing to stand with the people who are concerned and who are experiencing a tragedy today. Parliamentary initiatives have already been taken and texts have been tabled in this regard. But I can only share – and we offer services to relay the message you have expressed about large distribution. That's lamentable! It is lamentable: while some play solidarity, others play purely profit by ignoring the disaster and the immense distress in which one of the links in our country's food production chain is located. We will also be side by side with all the political groups who will publicly denounce it. And if we can bring our stone to the building, we will do so with determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u20	Minister, most of the questions have all received a clear answer, for which I am grateful. I am also pleased that there will be an investigation into the cause, which is also important to know. As far as compensation is concerned, it is very important that they are paid out quickly, because people really do need it, and that they are paid out in full. You have given sound answers to this too. Indeed, people already have a lot of concerns, so it will also be necessary to provide appropriate guidance to submit the claims files. We must try to avoid the red tape, because these people are already struggling enough and we must help them. I also call for good information and awareness so that they are well aware of what is possible. I specifically asked if an export cell would be set up. You did not reply in any concrete way or in no way, but you indicated what steps you have already taken to ensure that exports are monitored as closely as possible. You have already contacted the various embassies to remove the unrest and to make it very clear that there is still a lot of good pork in Belgium and that we can continue to export and promote it because it perfectly complies with all the safety regulations. I'm sure that's important. However, I would urge you to monitor and monitor exports very closely and to continue to convince people that we still have very high quality pork and that there is nothing to do with it so that we can convince other countries to continue buying it. I hope that you will follow up further and make the necessary efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u21	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for taking the time to answer the questions. If some have not received an answer, it is because the evolution of the file does not yet allow it. However, there is one to which you have not responded, minister. Fortunately, you have responded to the one concerning large distribution. I had put it down, because it hits me, as much as you and others. I have just heard colleagues bewilder this situation. There are actually two groups. I had also heard of Delhaize's action, in a different sense. But another question followed that one. As far as the destination of meat is concerned, is there no possibility of doing something about it? Of course, there is no question of reinjecting it into the market. It would bring down prices, and that is not what we want. It'd be double trouble. I consider that the action of supermarkets is already the double penalty. But would it be possible to dedicate it to works, to food banks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u22	Madam, before the Order came into force, we took care to make local arrangements for the Virton slaughterhouse to be exceptionally open. We communicated, at the local level, explaining that until the Order came into force – and it could not enter into force faster – the usual rules were applicable. This allowed meat to be valued, in particular at the level of small farms and small farms, either for commercial purposes or for personal consumption. But the order, as it is made, and as we must take it in such a context, implies that meat, from the entry into force of the order, cannot be consumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u23	Minister, thank you for this answer, which is damaging to the needs of a number of people. I regret that this cannot be the case. We will return to these elements in a short time but, for the time being, I have received answers to all of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. I understand that economic unemployment will be introduced. It remains important that this applies to very specific companies. As we all know, a crisis is often a matter of perception. This would allow slaughterhouses to fear a decline in their activity in the near future. It is precisely for this reason that I am counting on you to follow this issue further and, if necessary, to press for a negative impact on the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u25	I have heard the Minister's answers and will highlight the remarkable work of ULC Libramont, which was present from the beginning until yesterday, at the meeting we held, for six hours, with the governor, with the mayors and the operators, with the obeyists, as we call them. Individual contact was made each time. They did a good job. But there is one element missing in this landscape and I reminded Minister Collin's representative: what is circulating on social networks is the misunderstanding of the organized and rapid slaughter of pigs and the fact that the wild boars are not being taken care of. There is a lack of precise information on the strategy put in place, on the advice of European experts, as the Minister said; the strategy has proved its worth, particularly in the Czech Republic. It is necessary to explain in a didactic way the period of six months, the reason why we cannot shoot or feed, the fact that - I am not a hunter - but when we do not disturb the wild boars, they remain on an area of two to three kilometers while when we excite them, they can travel up to 30 kilometers. The intention is to define precisely the perimeter to be closed, but not necessarily. The explanation of the strategy should be communicated, otherwise it goes in every direction and anything is said. The less we know, the more we talk about it. Information is the missing element. With respect to compensation: the minister spoke of federal compensation. Indeed, the Region is currently in budget discussion and this is one of its priorities, with the state of the woods. It is clear that there will be very precise compensation at the economic level. The operators present yesterday asked a series of questions, in particular concerning the loss, in the coming months and perhaps the 18 months of inactivity, of the situation of the employees, and contact was made with Minister Peeters in this respect and also about the fact that farmers slaughtered pigs quickly for their personal consumption, which they put in refrigerators and cold rooms, etc. These pigs being in the state where they were, they therefore lost the economic loss on these pigs too. All of this will have to be assessed. The Region's response is very clear and precise. The words were spoken in the presence of the governor and the mayor. For those who do not fulfill their commitments, this will barder. I feel like everything's going to be fine. The operators present and the obeyists present after are of total goodwill and complete understanding. There are a few illuminated ones that get a little excited, but they're always the same, whatever the material. But those who are responsible and aware of the sector, even if they are affected by personal trauma, have appreciated the way things are put in place and the responses that are given. We know the slaughter is going to start tonight. Everything is going to be set up with the police to make it happen in good conditions. As far as farms of less than ten heads are concerned, all the mayors know what they have to do. We have a list of the operators. There's a dozen left to contact. We'll do the right thing. Frankly, we can see that it was prepared. The work has been remarkable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u26	Mr. Piedboeuf, thank you. I would like to join the thanks expressed for the replies. I agree with the negative assessment of the attitude of part of the large distribution. But it's always the same. Before the holidays, you indicated your intention to contact them to convince them to sell local products. The logic of large distribution and that of respect for the producer and fair price are incompatible, as we can see once again. According to my information, the AFSCA has actually passed through all farms. I guess they've raised the number of animals. I stress this because it is important to assess compensation. If I take the example of organic farming, sows that create the lines they have formed are not always registered. If this is not taken into account, the compensation may be only 300 instead of 1000 euros. I hope that the analysis carried out by the AFSCA can also be made available to farmers when they have to complete their compensation files. I agree with the wish to see prompt compensation before the end of the year. But it's going to take so long that we're going to have to put in place a mechanism that will keep us going. Remains concerned about our ability to control movements in the area to prevent it from growing. I heard the containment logic advocated for wild boars in the most exposed area. We'll let them die and then we'll go get the corpses. We're not hunting so they don't disperse. But we know that the wild boars are disturbed, even more than by fire, by all the movements that take place in their territory. How can we organize ourselves to control the human movements that take place in this area? From a health point of view, you must be able to observe. Are farms controlled for African swine fever systematically outside the area? The DNF circulates in the forests, but what about these farms? It is known that individuals (tourists, transporters, etc.) – I mentioned earlier the example of the football fans – travel in the area, walk on landings and thus risk carrying the virus to areas far from the forests. It's not just forests and wild boars. That is why I ask you to have a permanent examination of the presence of the virus, not only via the Walloon Region or the Flemish Region in forest or hunting areas but in the environment in general, for health reasons. I hope that compensation will be calculated taking into account the work that this represents. It is my responsibility that the price of organic pork, short circuit, etc. is 3.5 euros per kilo and not 1 euro. If we start from this and from the value of things, we need EUR 1 million and not the EUR 500 000 that have been quoted at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u27	I've never quoted figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u28	No, I am referring here to the figures that were cited in the discussions, meetings and reflections. I simply draw attention to the height of the interventions that will have to be undertaken. They are essentially small producers who, once again, because they want to make quality, are victims of contamination or exposure to external elements for which they are not responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u29	I would like to add one element. It was pointed out yesterday, with the governor, who is a former lawyer. The cause of the damage is the political decision that has been taken. It is therefore clear that the consequences of this fact must be assumed from the moment when the operative event is known. We all agree on this. As for the assessment, some operators asked if they could report their accounts. It's beautiful to say that it's worth so much; you still have to be able to prove it. The answer was yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u30	You're looking at a few things that I can answer you for. I do not mention figures, because the parameters that will be included in the expertise are multiple. It would be imprudent to do so, given the fact that the bio and the conventional are treated differently. We've got a pig census. This is done by the AFSCA. An estimate of the replacement cost is being made. The idea of health compensation is to compensate the farmer at market prices. This is how compensation works. The calculation is not done by the AFSCA, even if the AFSCA conducts a census. He is an expert who works with the Animal Health Fund, and with DG4, who, on the occasion of slaughter, will visit the site to carry out the expertise and evaluation. I would like to provide more information on another element. It is clear that measures are also taken outside the area. Controls are carried out by AFSCA to ensure that biosecurity measures are taken, particularly with respect to open-air farming, which poses more risks than industrial farming, where pigs can be more easily contained. In addition, you should be aware that livestock mortality rates are also reported to AFSCA. When something abnormal happens, the AFSCA can see it very quickly and the veterinarian of the holding has an obligation to transmit to the AFSCA information related to these exceptional causes of death. The risk of detection is obviously taken into account in our operations and regulations in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-28-54-commissie-ic968x.u31	As no one is asking for the floor, we can close our business.
