ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 25979 question is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u2	Minister, at the plenary session on May 17, 2018, I shared with you my greatest concern about the organization by ENGIE of the insolvency of Electrabel, whose first concrete trace we had just seen was the payment of a dividend in kind of more than 1.6 billion difficult to explain in terms of the balance sheet and the results of the company. The other visible trace of the organisation of this insolvency is the fact that the mobility of the disposal plan of 15 billion assets decided by ENGIE was achieved via Electrabel. The transformation of assets into cash makes it easier to transfer to the parent company, so one can fear the worst in relatively short time. In response to my oral question, you announced that you had given Synatom a period of eight days to demonstrate that Electrabel offered sufficient guarantees to meet its borrower obligations and its legal obligations as a debtor of nuclear provisions related to the application of the "polluter pays" principle. My fears were reinforced by the reading of the newspaper L'Echo of 18 May, which confirms that there was indeed a complete counting plan of Electrabel - the Bianca plan - allowing ENGIE to completely protect itself from the Electrabel risk and from the inevitable upward revision of the provisions for the management of the dismantling of nuclear power plants and nuclear waste, an increase announced as substantial by you in plenary session on 17 May. All this is to be placed in a context for which the year 2017 ends in red for ENGIE. Indeed, the company had to draw 735 million euros from the reserve to clear in particular an accounting loss of 290 million euros. This is the third consecutive deficit year and I do not yet mention what is being prepared for next year in view of the numerous reactor closures. This time I come back to you about the reply sent by Synatom to your May 17 letter. During our previous exchange of June 6 on this important subject, you indicated to us that, apart from the positive response to the governance measure relating to independent directors, you did not find, in this letter, any reply or element of response indicating that additional actions are taken by Synatom. Above all, you informed us of Synatom's response to the Committee on Nuclear Supplies for information and advice. Continuing our constructive dialogue on the subject, I would like to know the opinion as submitted by the CPN and receive a copy of it. I would also like you to be able to share with us the conclusions and recommendations that you retain, the actions that this will take at your level so as not to remain with Synatom's unsatisfactory response. How are you going to look for these guarantees that you asked Synatom and behind this subsidiary, to Electrabel and ENGIE and that they did not give you in the reply dated May 24th? I would also like you to tell us what conclusions and recommendations you have and what actions this analysis of the CPN is going to take at your level to prevent us from remaining on Synatom's unsatisfactory response. I would like to take this opportunity to return to another element of the debate on which I have not received an answer in our previous discussions. Has ENGIE offered Belgium to enter capital, as you say, or has it not proposed, as Mr Montfroy claims? I would also like to know what progress has been made in the development of Bill CPN. We will discuss the more or less secret discussions you have with ENGIE later, but it seems that they are asking for this bill to be discarded. You have committed yourself to table it here in Parliament. News is increasing my concerns. What are the main thrusts of the proposals that you have put forward or are going to include in this bill? Finally, thank you for giving us all the useful information about the other operations affecting Electrobel's business scope. Synatom's letter of 24 May 2018 refers to this. What operations are involved? How and at what height do they impact the scope of Electrabel's activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u3	Mr President, I understand your question of follow-up. However, with regard to your other questions, I have not yet received a response from the CNP to my request for advice. Subject to the elements that will be there, I would remind you that my priority, in terms of actions, remains the draft bill proposed by the CNP and on which we are working. I'm not going to repeat myself, but the context is changing. The situation is no longer the same as in 2003. Experience has been gained and this law, as I have already said, deserves modernization 15 years after its entry into force. It is therefore generally appropriate that the powers and means of the NPC be strengthened. I have noted, when you told me in the committee on 6 June, that I can count on your support for this. When you're talking about the May 18th newspaper L'Echo, according to which there would indeed be a complete listing plan for Electrabel - the Bianca plan - I have already had the opportunity to tell you that this plan is old, that it has changed its name and that it is evolving in a completely different way. This is no longer a plan, since it joins the negotiations that were discussed in the press yesterday, if I am not mistaken, which are taking place and which constitute exchanges between the representatives of the Prime Minister's office, the representatives of my cabinet and those of ENGIE, and this, always within the framework of the Belgian State's requirement to see the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies realized. In this context, we are presenting ourselves with a text and they are evolving and coming with proposals that I cannot talk to you about because I am not negotiating here in committee, especially since these negotiations, which are exchanges of views, have not yet reached a conclusion that we could bring to the government in IKW and therefore subsequently. As for your questions about other transactions affecting the scope of Electrabel SA's business (this is what is discussed in Synatom's letter), these seem to relate to the EUR 15 billion asset sales plan between 2016 and 2018, which ENGIE announced in early 2016 together with a reinvestment plan for the same amount and a cost reduction plan whose overall objective was to refocus on assets not subject to changes in raw materials, energy services and low CO2 emissions. If I remember correctly, this was the subject of several of your previous questions, notably on 18 April 2017 in a question about the situation of ENGIE in which you told me that "there are delays in the implementation of its plan for the disposal of assets and investment." You also mentioned this in your inquiry i264 discussed in committee on June 6th: "(...) the fact that half of ENGIE's plan of divestment of 15 billion assets was carried out via Electrabel." So it's not new to you or to us. More specifically, for these other transactions and given that I asked him the question, Synatom specifically told me that they were transactions involving the divestiture of Electrabel's assets, since 2016, amounting to EUR 10.6 billion relating to the sale of US assets, the divestiture of coal-fired power plants in Asia, Active Merchant in the United Kingdom and Poland, the divestiture of residual holdings in ORES, which also included the divestiture of Electrabel France's securities, i.e. of SHEM and CNR to ENGIE SA in the form of dividends in kind. That is the state of affairs today. This brings me to the global issue of a structural nature, which relates to the question of whether all these movements will allow us to secure the attainment of the objective, the existence, the sufficiency and the availability of nuclear supplies within the framework of a dismantling which you know will span a very large number of years with, I repeat, the concern in my mind that the powers of the CPN will be strengthened, which in my view will be the body that will be the body that will corrupt all this manoeuvre for future generations. The ongoing discussions aim to ensure that the Belgian State achieves the objective it has set itself, namely to have the guarantee of these three founding elements of the 2003 Act. This may take several forms that are not necessarily contradictory, except in the case of open conflict. In this case, if this conflict is irreducible, the Belgian State will table a text on the benches of Parliament, which is being prepared and which is reinforced throughout these exchanges as ENGIE's position evolves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u4	Minister, thank you for these elements of the answer that I will take the time to analyze. I note that you have not yet received a response from the CPN.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u5	That is what my staff member indicated in the text of my reply. I think he's very well informed. So I can trust him, but we're still going to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u6	You had received from Synatom...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u7	I sent a letter back. I received a new response from Synatom.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u8	And you asked the CPN for advice on Synatom's response. That's what I was asking for. But, unless you're wrong, you haven't received it yet. So I'll come back to you in the fall to ask you about the CPN's opinion on Synatom's response. Indeed, at this stage, I should not remind you of the firmness and hardness of your analysis of the first answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u9	I'm still very firm. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u10	I dare hope so because the stakes are extremely important, and no matter the name of the operation, be it Bianca or another name.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u11	It's not called Bianca anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u12	That's what I'm saying. I don't care what the name is. What matters is the content of the operation. I hear you're under negotiation, that's the term you used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u13	I'd say it's constructive, it's exchanges. It's a kind of negotiation, where everyone talks about what they want. We are not yet in a discussion about a common object that is being further developed. Rather, we are in the process of approaching.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u14	Working on this issue for the last few years, I insist that you stick to the form of a piece of legislation. We know that ENGIE Electrabel is experiencing a very poor legislative framework. However, the Commission on Nuclear Supplies (CPN), the National Organization for Radioactive Waste and Enriched Fissile Material (ONDRAF) or anyone else, say that only the law can guarantee certain elements. And again here, we read that it would only be the convention. You're talking about proposals in their head. I am still hanging on – and it is in this sense that the CNP's contribution is important – to the text of the law, which you announced for a few weeks in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u15	I am by nature firmly attached to a realization of what the Belgian State needs in this context through a piece of legislation. But legally, there are things that need to be dealt with differently, alongside a piece of legislation. That's why I was telling you that it can take many forms. But there must be legislation. That's my desire.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u16	Do you have any idea the calendar?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u17	It's very difficult to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u18	It'll be before the end of the year, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u19	Honestly, I can't give you a calendar idea. It is desirable, even if the level of complexity in this case is very high, to reach a solution as soon as possible. But I can't tell you exactly when.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u20	All right. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are entering an election year for the communal level and that the sequence of elections will not help to define the timetable. Not cumulating, I'll always be available for this job. I hope that you will be in time with regard to the timing of the convention and with regard to the fact that this law must be passed under this legislature. Otherwise, we risk that ENGIE has restructured everything without guarantees at Belgian level. I draw your attention to the financial and economic movements that are taking place within ENGIE, beyond the list of sales that you mentioned in your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u21	Mr. Nollet, my firm has been working on this case for weeks. We're working hard on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u22	Tell them I encourage them and I support them so that they finish relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u23	I'll give them your encouragement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 26003 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u25	Mr President, Minister, for many years there has been talk of the North Seas ring and the North Seas Offshore Grid Initiative, linking several offshore wind farms with each other in order to exchange electricity between the North Sea countries. It is not entirely clear whether much progress has been made by these countries. Such a project could bring considerable benefits in terms of exchange of electricity, but also in terms of exchange of flexibility. For example, Norwegian hydroelectric power plants could provide flexibility for our country and our neighbouring countries. Vattenfall and TenneT announce that they are working on WindConnector, which could implement this project on a smaller scale by linking two offshore stations together. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the state of play of the North Seas Countries' Offshore Grid Initiative? What steps have you taken to achieve results in this respect? Secondly, how do you evaluate the WindConnector's project? Do you see opportunities there to create similar projects in parallel through bilateral links between offshore parks, which could in turn bring closer to the realization of the offshore grid?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u26	Madam Minister, I have a few additional questions to ask Mr Wollants about the new call for tenders for new wind farms. Firstly, we have known for a long time that this is being done. The slides at the Energy Pact said that before the summer recess, there would be a "pre-draft law" principle paper on the procurement procedure for the new wind farms after 2020. I understand that your colleague, Secretary of State De Backer, is drafting that memorandum of principle, but it is no longer clear to me who has the ultimate competence. My first question is therefore whether the direction of this note has been transferred entirely to your colleague, Mr De Backer. He is, of course, competent for the North Sea, but you are competent for Energy. Are there any arrangements on that? Who are we to call upon in the future? Secondly, I understand that the note is almost ready. What is the planned timing for the launch of the tender? Thirdly, how many gigawatts of wind does the note provide for the new zone? Earlier, Secretary of State De Backer mentioned 1.6 GW, while we still need a minimum of 1.8 GW for the proposed 4 GW by 2030, which is mentioned in the Energy Pact. Fourthly, by when is it planned in the note that the construction of the first park in the new zone will start? When should all the parks be realized? Fifth, where are we on Elia's federal development plan? When will that be published? In what year does Elia expect to be ready with the reception capacity for this new offshore zone? How do you direct Elijah in the development of his plan? What levers does the government use to accelerate developments, if necessary, as we will need them more quickly? Sixth, are you talking to Elijah about the connection capacity of the new zone yourself, or is it also Secretary of State De Backer who is doing so? Seventhly, what preparatory works and studies previously carried out by the developers will the administration now take on? Will they draw on the expertise of the sector or does it have that expertise in its own right?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u27	Mr Wollants, on 3 December 2010, a memorandum of understanding was signed by ten countries and the European Energy Commissioner. Those ten countries (Belgium, Denmark, Germany, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, the United Kingdom and Sweden) have undertaken to develop an offshore network in the North Sea that will ensure future security of supply of electricity and the necessary onshore reconnections. For the first time, the NSCOGI has made a network modeling for the North Sea for 2030, which was used as a basis for the North Seas Grid Study. This study is one of the largest studies undertaken so far to address the technologies available today and the expected technological developments. In addition, NSCOGI provided two discussion papers on cost sharing and market regulation. Ad hoc cooperation on planning and licensing procedures was strengthened and best practices were exchanged. On 6 June 2016, the countries concerned and the European Commission signed a renewed political declaration building on the NSCOGI, the North Seas Energy Cooperation. The work programme set out in Annex 1 to the Political Declaration shall run for three years from the summer of 2016 to the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u28	Four work areas have been defined: maritime spatial planning, the development and regulation of offshore networks and other offshore infrastructure, support mechanisms and financing of offshore wind projects and, finally, standards and technical rules in the offshore wind sector. Belgium chaired the initiative until September 2017. The Netherlands will chair until September 2018, followed by Denmark until September 2019. In May 2017, it was decided to study a number of clusters intensively and to develop concretely. In addition to the long-term projects, such as the Dogger Bank, including the WindConnector, the German Curve and the development in the Irish Sea, the cluster of Belgium, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom is of great importance, because there is already a lot of offshore wind production in that zone and therefore cooperation can be achieved in the short term. TenneT and Vattenfall conducted a technical feasibility study on a possible high-voltage cable connection, designated by TenneT and Vattenfall as the WindConnector, between the planned offshore station in the IJmuiden Ver wind area and the Vattenfall offshore station in the UK waters. The aim is to increase the efficient use of transport infrastructure in order to trade more electricity between countries. The study will be discussed in NSAC Working Group 2 to see how it can be used to further develop cluster cooperation between Belgium, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. In addition to the energy administration, Elia and the CREG are involved. Mrs Temmerman, I quote the decision of the Council of Ministers of 27 October 2017: In view of the current European framework, the government will adapt the regulatory framework for possible additional wind farms to be built post-2020 in order to no longer operate according to a concession system, but via a system of tender. Chairperson: Karine Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u29	There is also the decision of 27 April 2018, from which I quote again: "The Minister of Energy and the Secretary of State for the North Sea will submit a memorandum of principle before 20 July 2018 which will enable a call for tenders for the possible construction of new wind farms after 2020." The Minister of Energy and the Secretary of State for the North Sea will therefore submit a memorandum of principle by 20 July 2018 allowing a call for tenders for the construction of new offshore wind farms after 2020 in new areas to be defined by the Marine Spatial Plan 2020-2026. The format of this note was entrusted to a working group consisting of my cabinet, the De Backer cabinet, representatives of the General Energy Directorate, the CREG, Elia, the General Environment Management Board and the Scientific Management Unit of the North Sea Mathematical Model, under the coordination of the two Cabinets. Several meetings were held under the coordination of the two firms. Exploratory contacts with the Dutch administration, whose success in tendering has already borne fruit, as well as contacts with wind federations and with some academics have taken place. It is important to add that the competences between "Energy" and "North Sea" are relatively clear in the government agreement, since the Secretary of State for the North Sea is competent in the North Sea with regard to the environment and the marine environment, while I am competent in energy, including to the North Sea. Our cooperation has always been fruitful and, for this reason, the Council of Ministers has entrusted us with the drafting of this note. In fact, energy skills in the North Sea are coming back into my hands. It is obvious that the development of an effective trending mechanism can, through the organisation of a competitive approach, link in a much stronger way the relationships between the "Northern Sea" and "Energy" competences. But we eliminated these elements of competition for joint work to set support for the last three parks in the first area significantly lower. We naturally continue this work for the future parks and the trending we reserve for them. On the basis of the note I was talking about at the moment, different policy choices will have to be submitted to the decision of the Council of Ministers. In particular, choices must be made in terms of the legal framework, the development of the offshore and onshore electricity grid, the timing of the establishment of tendering mechanisms, the division of responsibilities and studies between the State and the participants in the trending. These are "Energy" competences. It is therefore too early at this stage to answer your questions accurately. In terms of installed capacity, the Energy Pact actually refers to a total of 4 GW for the first and second zones. The 221 km2 provided for the second zone, determined by the Secretary of State, can achieve such installed capacity. However, let us not be mistaken, we are of course aiming for a useful objective: to maximise the production of renewable energy in this area, at the lowest cost to the consumer. But, I would remind you, studies still have to be carried out and we now have only one defined area in the sea. It's up to us to make the best use of it. The new development plan for the transmission network for the period 2020-2030 is currently under preparation, in accordance with the provisions of Article 13 of the Law of 29 April 1999 and the Royal Decree of 20 December 2007. If all goes well, that plan will be submitted to me for validation at the beginning of 2019, after the advice of the CREG and the Secretary of State for the North Sea was obtained, after an environmental impact analysis has taken place and after a public survey was organised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u30	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I look forward to further evolution in that North Sea Energy Inc story, because I think there are certainly opportunities there for a better exchange of power and for a better development. After all, we all know that the transport of electricity via the North Sea is not an easy matter. The development of that next zone will be on a critical path there. The cable that was laid for Stevin is completely taken. That capacity has been used up, so there has to be additional capacity. I will read the answers you gave to Mrs Temmerman very carefully, because I have heard a number of unusual matters about competence and others. We know that in the previous legislature there was a very strange discussion about the creation of that second zone. The then Secretary of State for Energy wanted a second zone, while the Minister responsible for the North Sea said that there would be no second zone and that he would not include one in his Marine Plan. That made for a ping-pong game. I think we are out of this legislature, but during the previous legislature it was an amalgamation of all kinds of things. I am looking at how things are developing, but I am wary of using the same strategy as last time, namely as much megawatts per square kilometre as possible, because we know that we will then be in a situation where we will have to pay for this megawatt very expensively. One of the problems facing us is that our parks are much more compact than in the Netherlands or Denmark. We must also pay attention to this. One can compare it with parks in the neighbouring countries that would be built for the time being without subsidies if the conditions were there, but not if one has to push too much into one zone, which means that more support is needed. I am very curious about the outcome of that discussion, but everything is still at an early stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u31	Madam Minister, in addition to Mr Wollants, I would like to say that not everything is comparable. The subsurface in the other countries and even in the Netherlands is different from the subsurface on our side of the North Sea. Madam Minister, there are a lot of questions that you have not answered, but I suppose you do not have the answer because a number of studies are still in progress. An additional question is whether the principle paper will be available before 20 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u32	We're going to ask the question. I am not aware of the degree of progress of this note of principle that we must table before 21 July, because of all the work that I have to deal with at this time. I don't know how it is written, but the work is under way. We'll question and answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u33	We will try to respect speaking times, as is the practice in other committees, to move forward on the issues. I am proceeding in this way in the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u34	Madam President, Minister, my question is specifically about RWE's offer. The press says that the Clauscentrale, which is on the other side of the Dutch border, wishes to be eligible to deliver the estimated capacity. According to the press, your reaction was that on our side, too, gas plants want to participate in the mechanism you are preparing. We know that the European Commission very often stresses the importance of technology neutrality and the possibility of involving crossborder capacity. In fact, you pointed in the same direction in the plenary session of 25 April, where you indicated that all technologies contributing would be taken into account, including demand management, storage capacity and interconnections. In this context, I would like to ask the following questions. Will CRM give priority to domestic capacity? You're talking mainly about gas power stations. Does this mean that only this technology will be considered in that mechanism? To what extent have any discussions with the European Commission led to the inclusion of an arrangement for the participation of foreign capacity in the design of capacity mechanism? To what extent is technology neutrality monitored in these talks or on the basis of them? Insofar as recent events have not overtaken this question, when will the preliminary draft on the capacity mechanism be discussed at the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u35	Madam President, Madam Minister, in order for it to go quickly, I shall drop my introduction. My question also deals with the integration of foreign capacity into the Belgian network, more specifically by the Dutch power station in Maasbracht with about 1 300 megawatts. Madam Minister, as Mr Wollants said, domestic capacity can also be mobilised. The government agreement stipulates that the opportunity must be examined to integrate foreign capacity into the Belgian network. Has this opportunity been investigated yet? If so, what is the result? Can you explain whether the foreign power stations that can be connected to our network will also be allowed to make use of the capacity fee? Why is that, or why not? Have you consulted with the owner of this plant? If so, when and what was agreed? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u36	Madam President, Minister, the power station, just across our border, was completely modernised in 2012. In 2014 she was shut down because, at that time, she was not profitable. We all know that gas plants will be needed to cope with the loss of power caused by the nuclear exit. Could this plant also be eligible? How do you feel about RWE's demand to integrate foreign capacity into the Belgian electricity network? Will other foreign entities also be able to participate in the supply of electricity on the Belgian market or will you somehow limit yourself to the Belgian market even though I do not know how you would do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u37	Madam President, the basic principles of a technology-neutral and market-wide CRM system state that all technologies must be able to participate in the system on an equal footing. This is valid for both domestic and foreign capacity. In other words, if a plant from abroad wants to participate in a CRM, it will have to demonstrate its equivalent contribution to the Belgian security of supply compared to its capacity within the national borders. Moreover, it is also necessary for the foreign power plant to operate in a sufficiently stable legal framework. A capacity connected to the Belgian control zone, the Elia network, via a direct line, will of course make a much greater contribution to the Belgian network compared to a capacity abroad that is not connected to a direct line. In any case, the project will have to compete with the other projects that will participate in the CRM auctions. If the project is cost-efficient, sufficiently contributes to security of supply and has an adequate legal framework, it will be successfully incorporated into the Belgian CRM. We are aware of the potential contribution of the RWE plant to security of supply. Indeed, RWE had submitted an offer for repowering and connection to the Belgian network of Claus C in 2014, already, as you know, under the previous legislative term, in the framework of the call for tenders aimed at guaranteeing the adequacy of production capacity in Belgium. In the 2014 opinion of the Directorate-General for Energy, it was stated that "the RWE offer competed with existing projects where CAPEX is simply a connection in the case of cents (Claus Maasbracht) and where support is limited to OPEX, while for other plants the whole CAPEX is taken into account". My administration has contacts with RWE to identify any adjustments needed to offer the project an equivalent participation in the CRM system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u38	Thank you for your answer. It is important that the bar be levelled, but also that foreign capacity can be called upon if necessary, if there are at least equivalent guarantees. That is the most important aspect. We are also looking forward to the preliminary draft law which will undoubtedly be published one of the following days, as we had already hoped for more information on 31 May. I'm a patient man sometimes, so we'll be patient for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u39	I agree with what my colleague has said, but I am rarely a patient woman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u40	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and, of course, like all colleagues, I am waiting for the follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u41	Question No 26273 by Mrs Dierick is deleted. Mr. Nollet asked us to wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u42	Madam Secretary, the federal energy strategy of 30 March contains six axes, with strict timing. One of these axes is the introduction of an energy standard. The government agreement also stipulates that the government will issue an energy standard. This standard, which depends on the consumption profile and energy intensity, must ensure that the different components of energy costs in Belgium are no higher than those in our neighbouring countries. This must preserve the competitiveness of our businesses and the purchasing power of our families. According to the energy strategy, particular attention will be paid to gas and electricity costs for energy-intensive industries. You were entrusted with the elaboration of the energy standard and a preliminary draft law by 20 July 2018. That's pretty soon, hence my questions. How does the energy standard work? The government agreement states that the development of the energy standard must take place as far as possible in cooperation with the Länder. How are they involved in that process? What consultation has already taken place on this subject? Can you explain the further timing to introduce the energy standard? I assume that we will, of course, meet the deadline of 20 July. According to the federal energy strategy, the evolution of energy prices and tariffs will be monitored by FORBEG. The CREG has indicated that it will launch a joint monitoring and benchmarking study together with its regional counterparts. Who's gonna do that study? What is the current state of affairs? What's the further timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u43	Madam Minister, I will not, of course, repeat Mrs Dierick's excellent introduction. I'll come straight to my questions. What's the status? What guidelines do you intend to use, particularly with regard to the particular focus on the energy-intensive consumption profile? How do you see the correction mechanism contained in the federal government agreement being part of the preliminary draft energy standard? We can measure, but if we do not adapt, it will not do us much good.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u44	Minister, on March 30, the government reiterated its commitment to establishing an energy standard. You told us you'd come before the summer. So, Minister, what tangible initiatives have you taken in this direction? What are your plans in the coming months? Finally, can you assure us that this energy standard will not result in a reduction in aid in the form of social tariffs or an increase in the bill of residential consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u45	Madam President, first of all, I would like to point out that the October 2014 government agreement set itself the objective of establishing an energy standard, in cooperation - as far as possible - with the federated entities. The purpose of this energy standard based on the consumption profile and energy intensity is to ensure that the different components of the energy cost are not higher than those in our neighbouring countries. This protects the competitiveness of businesses and the purchasing power of families. This standard will apply to the different components. Indeed, it cannot be expected that the decrease of one component will be reversed by the increase of another component. Particular attention will be paid to the gas and electricity costs of the industry with an energy-intensive consumption profile. As far as deadlines are concerned, I have to table a text by 20 July. Another one was presented this week in IKW. Work on drawing up an energy standard is under way. Without revealing its content, the project defines electro-intensivity by referring to the European definition. The project directs CREG to carry out an annual study comparing, by category of customers, the final price of energy in Belgium compared to neighbouring countries. These must be representative, i.e. present similar or comparable elements in relation to the Belgian situation. As previously indicated, CREG has made contacts with its regional counterparts with a view to preparing a joint monitoring and benchmarking study carried out within the informal regulatory consultation body, FORBEG. On the basis of the comparison and if a price handicap is identified, the CREG will be responsible for issuing recommendations to address it. In order not to undermine regional jurisdiction, these recommendations will only cover elements of the price that fall within federal jurisdiction: federal amenities, taxes, taxes and surcharges, primarily offshore overload and federal contribution. This is why this case is highly related to that of offshore degression. Furthermore, in the context of the annual study prepared by CREG in order to identify a possible disadvantage of electricity prices compared to neighbouring countries, with regard to transport tariffs, the regulator should be given the power to modify immediately the rules for allocating the costs of the system operator, taking into account the tariff methodology, precisely with a view to filling the identified handicap. The purpose of the project is to insert an additional tariff guideline to be followed by CREG as part of its tariff methodology. The challenge is to determine who should benefit from the effects sought by the introduction of an energy standard. The benefit granted to some inevitably affects others. The government agreement set the framework by stating that the competitiveness of our businesses and the purchasing power of households should be preserved, as well as the state budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. However, I would like to warn you very strongly not to push through the link you make with the European definition of energy intensity. There is a very good reason why the government agreement does not refer to energy-intensive companies as referred to in the European definition but to an energy-intensive consumption profile. The reason is that we have a lot of SMEs that have an energy-intensive consumption profile but do not necessarily go over the European threshold. If the intention is to look only at these energy-intensive companies according to the European threshold, let us sit down with these two companies. That is not the intention, however. If energy is an important aspect for the production or the creation of added value, then it has to be valorised. I therefore believe that there is a need for a great many things other than simply looking at this European definition. Otherwise, we might get stuck. I cannot, of course, anticipate what is yet to come, but this will be an important aspect for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u47	Madam Secretary, I fully agree with that. I look forward to the draft law; 20 July will be there soon, so I hope we will receive it soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u48	Minister, I hear that the IKWs are in progress, but given the reactions of both the N-VA and the CD&V in committee, I think the agreement is still far away. In fact, they already disagree with the definition you just gave us. On the other hand, you said that the benefits given to one were going to be passed on to the other, the residential customers. We will not accept an increase in residential customers' bills. You have already increased VAT to 21%. We will pay close attention to this project, which is not likely to pass to the government until July 21, 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect the speaking times, so that we can move forward. Mr Nollet, your question No 26427 becomes unique, since Mrs Dierick dissociates her question No 26275 and Mr de Lamotte is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u50	Madam Minister, when I asked you about the status of the future capacity compensation mechanism (CRM) on 23 May, you said that "the aim is to discuss it before the end of this month in the Council of Ministers and then to discuss it with the European Commission". You also stated that "currently IKWs are being organized to discuss the draft which will be submitted to the Council of Ministers shortly. The aim is to be able to visit the European Commission in June." I therefore come back to you very logically to know whether the text was adopted in May in the Council of Ministers and whether you were able to go to the Commission in June. I would also like to know what is apparent from your discussions with the Commission on this subject. Can you tell me the next steps in the file and their timing? Finally, does the newspaper Le Soir of July 2 say true when it says: "While the guideline is largely outdated, the Council of Ministers has still not approved any preliminary draft decree."?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u51	Madam Chair, CRM principles will be based on a system of reliability options. Indeed, PwC's study concluded that this is the most appropriate system for Belgium. I already said it. In addition, similar systems have been approved by the European Union, Italy and Ireland. In addition, the system will be technologically neutral, since it must be technologically neutral, and will therefore not only be open to gas-fired power stations. You know that the implementation of CRM is a long process and that we plan to go through it one step after the other. The system we want to put in place is based on examples from abroad where such implementation took several years. We believe, however, that things could go faster in Belgium, given that the examples from abroad can be used as a source of inspiration and that the European Commission already has a great deal of experience in analysing and evaluating such cases. In the event of delays in the full implementation of the CRM, a specific auctioning possibility is even foreseen to ensure that there will be sufficient controllable and reliable capacity in the Belgian electricity network at the appropriate time. This option will only serve as an emergency measure and will only be a first step in the development of a more comprehensive CRM. This principle will be included in the preliminary draft law to be submitted to the Council of Ministers and then to the European Commission. I can tell you that an IKW meeting was still taking place today – I hope it will be the last because it is the 13th – on this highly complex issue. I should therefore be able to table this draft on the table of the Council of Ministers this week, I hope. Much progress in this work has been achieved through the preparation of the file for its presentation to the government. The aim is to submit it for a first reading and to communicate it to the European Commission. As regards the auction schedule, two auctions will be held. One will take place four years in advance (T-4) and one year in advance (T-1). A first auction at T-4 will probably have to be organised before 2021 for the effective application of the mechanism in T year, i.e. in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u52	Madam Minister, there is an urgent need on this issue for the credibility of the entire assembly, including the release of nuclear power. You committed yourself here, but also at a press conference, that the text should be adopted by the government in May. It is July, and this text is not adopted. You still have to go to the European Commission. It was scheduled for June, as you said in your previous answer. It is July, and this is not yet done. I hear you'll submit it this week, and we're at the 13th IKW. I hope that you will not be caught up in the agenda of those who take advantage of these postponements in order not to comply with the nuclear exit agenda. I fear that, given your delays, we will be out of time for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u53	It won't be a month or so. Between June and early July, there is only a few days of difference. I asked for questioning who was entitled to know if the IKWs that were taking place today were finished. I've just been certified I'll be in DAB on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u54	Nevertheless, we are lagging behind because the holidays will take place in July and August. I'll ask you again when we get back to school to see if this case has progressed sufficiently, even though it was delayed when the ignition started.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u55	Minister, on May 4, 2018, you wrote to ONDRAF asking them to send you a final and reworked version of the document entitled "National Policy for the Long-Term Management of High Activity and Long-Term Radioactive Waste". I would like to know the ONDRAF's response and receive, as in previous stages, a copy of the response and its appendices. I would also like to know if the file has already been forwarded to the AFCN. In addition, what are the next steps and what is the planned timetable for these steps? During our exchange on 23 May, I asked you whether you were going, as you should, to carry out an environmental impact assessment of the draft national policy on the management of radioactive waste. I also asked you when and in what form the public consultation on this project will be organised. You told me that you were waiting for the ONDRAF's response and its proposals before you took your turn in concrete terms, while insisting that on principle you were very supportive of anything that could strengthen a broad societal base. I hope that since then the Board of Directors of ONDRAF has had time to position itself. I would therefore like to know the ONDRAF's proposals both on the organisation of the environmental impact assessment of the draft national policy on radioactive waste management and on the modalities and timing of the public consultation on this project. But in fact, I would like to know more about what you have decided on these proposals or what you will propose to the decision. For let us never forget that in this matter, if the ONDRAF proposes, you have it and therefore decide at the level of the government! What is your proposal regarding the organisation of the environmental impact assessment of the draft national policy on radioactive waste management? What is your proposal regarding the modalities and timing of the public consultation on this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u56	Mr. Nollet, I'm going to disappoint you. As I have already indicated in our answer to your merged questions (No 24779 and No 25580) at the Committee on 23 May, the Minister of Economy, Mr Kris Peeters, and myself, wrote a letter to the ONDRAF in which we addressed three elements: firstly, a request to ONDRAF to transmit to us, in terms of pagination, a final and publishable version of its document in order to be able to use it and to be sure that it was the final document; secondly, a request to sum up the proposal of more than 170 pages in the form of its royal decree together with its draft report to the King to enable us to take the subsequent actions that are appropriate; and thirdly, a response to the ONDRAF's request for certain actions and missions. For the details, and my reply to the subsequent actions, I refer you to my reply of 23 May, where I have already detailed in detail in detail what was happening. The only thing I miss today is the ONDRAF response. As soon as we have it, we will have more precise elements that will allow us to go further in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u57	Minister, you didn't give the ONDRAF a deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u58	To the best of my knowledge, we do not give a deadline in these letters. In any case, such complex matters require many technical adjustments and then we have to wait for the board meeting. We know that we will receive the answer in the following months. I can try to give them a deadline, but I am not convinced of the effectiveness of such a request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u59	If I understand your answer correctly, it's just a layout and a report to the King.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u60	No! More than just a layout, I ask for a summary of the proposal of more than 170 pages in the form of a draft royal decree, accompanied by the draft report to the King.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u61	You had already had a draft royal decree in the previous version. You just removed two elements. For me, this can be done quickly. I don't understand where it's stuck on that part! Furthermore, with regard to public consultation and impact assessment, you say that you want to decide when ONDRAF has responded. But, in any case, on the public consultation side, the legal study, which we discussed at the previous meeting, stated that it was necessary to do so. There's no more turning around the pot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u62	I've already answered you about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u64	The minister told me that she was quite in favour, not only of popular consultation...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u65	Yes! I haven't changed my mind!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u66	I want to empty this agenda. Otherwise you will be reconvened by July 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u67	Not only were you in favour of organizing a new environmental impact and impact assessment, you also had no choice on the public consultation component. I do not understand why the ONDRAF is procrastination on these fronts, except to consider that we have all the time, because the problem will be postponed to the next legislature. If that is the case, it is a political choice that belongs to you. I wonder if that's not what's going on. At what level? I don't know! In any case, I would like you to inform us about your objective and your timetable. No time limit has been set, whereas this is only a summary to be transmitted and two minor amendments to the Royal Order. That's why I find it strange that I haven't received an answer yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u68	Mr Nollet, the minister will not answer you, because she has already done so. You know this is not an exchange of views. Have you finished your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u69	Madam Chair, I was not asking a question; that was my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u70	Excuse me, I thought you were asking another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u71	No, that was a statement from me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u72	We didn't understand it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u73	When you read the transcript, you will see that there is no question mark.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u74	I will. We won't put a question mark.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u75	Thanks to the services!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u76	In this way, they are informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u77	Madam Minister, in our previous discussion on this subject, you indicated to me that it was in June that ONDRAF would adopt its baseline scenario to estimate the cost of geological storage of Category B and C wastes and to define the fee for the five-year period 2018-2023. Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to know the amounts now envisaged by ONDRAF in place of the $3.2 billion retained in 2012. What is the amount under the best of scenarios? What is the amount under the worst-case scenario? What are the final amounts? I would like to know what assumptions have been made to establish this cost, starting from the four relevant amendments required by the PSAN in its May 2016 letter to the CPN. This involved taking into account several host rocks, other than the low-induding clay. What other rocks have been considered? The consideration of several depths. What are the different depths taken into account? We know that the AFCN, in its 2016 letter, recalled that the assumptions usually considered internationally are greater than 400 m. AFCN cited Switzerland, which envisages depths of up to 900 m. Can you tell me whether an estimate of the cost of a depth of 600 m has been quantified, and how high it is? Taking into account a larger number of storage access routes. How many access routes were proposed in the previous version? How many access routes are now being considered? Consider a much larger footprint with more galleries. How many galleries were available in the previous version? How many galleries are now being considered? What was the proposed print? What is the print now proposed? What is the timetable now? Has the construction authorization schedule been changed? Has the storage closure schedule been changed? Has the storage schedule for the last waste C been changed? It is known that this update of costs is considered by all actors as the last intervention in useful time, given the cessation of nuclear production in 2025. Can you tell me whether the pricing that will result from this cost update will, as usual, be for a five-year period or whether it will cover the entire period until 2025? There would only be two years left. Might as well cover the whole period at once. Will it be five or seven years? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u78	Mr President, your question relates to the estimates of the costs of geological storage for Category B and Category C waste made by ONDRAF. This question goes back to some of the elements already discussed at the previous meeting of the same committee. First, as a result of my request, I met with ONDRAF in early June 2018 to discuss the status of their scenario and cost estimates, which should lead to the setting of a new fee rate for royalties from 1 January 2019. As you have already said, this is a key element in the sense that this pricing element is necessary to enable ONDRAF to carry out its tasks, but it is also indirectly an important input data as part of the nuclear re-evaluation exercise to take place in 2019. As you pointed out in your inquiry No. 260, to which I replied on 6 June last, the President of the CPN said that he needed the necessary information from ONDRAF. Indeed, it seems important for the CPN that the ONDRAF prepare financial assessments that are no longer based solely on a scientific approach, but that these financial assessments are based on scenarios that are technically feasible or based on available, therefore realistic, techniques, and that these scenarios are more operational or industrializable. Implicitly, the CPN is asking nothing other than what the European Commission already indicated in 2010 in the guide attached to its Recommendation 2006/851/Euratom. During this presentation, ONDRAF informed me, in broad terms, of the overall context and progress of its work, indicating that the dossier would be submitted to its Board of Directors on 29 June, and that it wished to provide for a more limited period of two years for 2019 and 2020, for the next period. They also told me that, for costing B and C, the sensitivity of costing to depth was ultimately less important than originally expected. They told me that a more operational or industrial approach had been taken into account. This responds to your concern about the total footprint and a larger number of access routes. They stated that costing remained a fiscal and estimated exercise, and that it should be based on realistic and feasible assumptions, for which it was necessary that information to quantify estimates be available. I took the opportunity to recall the NPC's request for an adequate response. On the basis of this presentation to my firm, and given that some questions remained and that some additional information appeared necessary, my firm formalized a series of questions, which were put to ONDRAF at the end of June. Among these questions, I think in particular - because I know the importance of this question for you - to further support the sensitivity of costing to depth, or to understand the approach put in place by ONDRAF regarding the assumptions "risks and opportunities" or to confirm to me that a more operational approach had been put in place, as requested by the CPN. Finally, I have formally asked ONDRAF to contact the CPN as soon as the costs and tariffs have been formalized and to transmit the appropriate information to the CPN and Synatom - within its competence as a provisioning company - so that the actions necessary for their prudential control can be implemented in a timely manner and that Synatom can adequately ensure the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies on the basis of these new data. Since this request was made last week, I have obviously not yet received a response from ONDRAF. The file was put on the agenda of the ONDRAF Board of Directors on 29 June. The latter validated the general terms of the reference scenario, only became aware at this stage of the dossier of methods, assumptions and estimates of this cost and mandated the Director General to calculate the fees for the period 2019-2020 and to submit these calculations for approval by the Board of Directors in September. At that time, I hope to have even more precise information to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u79	Minister, you say that the Board of Directors addressed the issue of cost at its meeting on June 29. How much is this cost for now? What figures have been mentioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u80	I can't tell you. I don't know them by heart. I'm going to interview my firm. I don't want to make a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u81	I'm not asking you to improvise. I am not asking you for the exact figures since we will have them in September, but an order of magnitude. If your firm could give me the information later, it would suit me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u82	We'll do it like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u83	Thank you. For the rest, I must not remind you that the deadline is very precise. The new rates are to be fixed on 1 January 2019. The postponement to September is not necessarily a good sign, even if I do not know how to analyse it, for lack of details on the elements I have mentioned here. I take the opportunity to point out two things. On the one hand, Madam Minister, please require that you be provided with at least the worst case number (worst box). Let us not limit ourselves to passing on to you the most interesting cost scenario! You must have in front of you, for your decision, the various possible assumptions. Then you'll decide. That's what I'm asking you and that's what you should ask the ONDRAF. On the other hand, the fact of restricting the period over two years challenges me. This is a challenge to me because, in all the previous reports of the ONDRAF and the CNP, as well as in your own words, it is said that this is the last period for which one can be useful in order to impose, in the financial sense of the term, an increase in fees to ENGIE and Electrabel, because it is known that production will be closed in 2025. It is the timetable that has been set. It's the government's schedule. Giving two years, when we know that ENGIE is in the process of completely restructuring, may lead to fears that there will be no increase over the next two years, that it will come later or that there will be no increase due to competition. Meanwhile, ENGIE's legal structure has changed completely. Who then finds himself again with difficulties? It is the Belgian citizen who will have to contribute. Minister, pay close attention to this. I see this two-year question with great reserve. Minister, I would also like to stress that you must impose that they pass on the worst-case scenario to you. They don't pose a problem to me, but you have to be informed in the political choice of the scenario that you will retain. At the very least, you have to have that information about the worst. This logic in which one is for the moment always working at least cost and then having to increase prices must be reversed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u84	Mr. Nollet, close!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u85	Minister, I would like to remind you of your own words: "Prices are going to explode because we expect a sharp increase."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u86	Madam President, I fully understand your readiness to respect the timing. I would point out that, in order to be able to respect it, I have transformed several oral questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u87	I'm trying to make sure we respect the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u88	You're right. I would just point out that I also complied with the Rules of Procedure by turning certain questions into written questions. Minister, at our June 6 talks, you were informing us that the government was going to take a position on the allocation of the Energy Transition Fund. I therefore come back to you as a first step with my previous questions. I would like you to provide us with a list of the projects selected, the promoters of these projects and the amounts allocated to each of them. I would also like you to be able to present in detail each project selected in axis 2 of the call for projects: beyond the title of the project, what exactly is it intended for, what are the project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's project's To these well-known questions, I would like to add the following question: what comments made by you in committee or in plenary during the discussions on the creation of this Fund informed us that this Fund - whose resources must be allocated to the energy transition, in the future - could also be used for 'waste treatment applications'? Should I remind you that you presented the Fund as follows on page 17 of document 54/1046/003: "Next, the Minister points out that the 1° of the proposed amendment provides that the resources to be allocated to the Energy Transition Fund under project can be used for measures to encourage and support research and development in "innovative projects" in the field of energy within the competence of the Federal State. The Minister denies that these means will be used to encourage and support nuclear energy. These are new methods of energy production, such as tidal energy production or energy storage projects." Could you explain to us how waste treatment projects are "new methods of energy production", to use word for word the verbatim of your presentation, in the presence of Mrs Lalieux, our president today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u89	Mr Nollet, first of all, the collaborator who manages the file has fallen off a scale. He's lying on his bed of suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u90	He wanted to pick cherries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u91	No, he wanted to remove ivy on a wall. His action unbalanced him. I'm not really laughing, 'cause he's pretty bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u92	It's kind of like our communal secretary, who also fell off a ladder – but because he was picking cherries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u93	Mr Nollet, therefore, I can only answer by reading the few lines he has written to me, as for each of your questions. I recognize myself that this is largely insufficient. I hope to be able to pass this issue on to the Council of Ministers on Friday, but we need to know the list before we can discuss it. I would therefore like to come back before 21 July to answer all your questions. For what you say about my answers in committee - where I was very active, just like you - I have a lot of comments to make. As I have taken up all the statements of each other and my own, I can assure you that we will have a good time together next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u94	Minister, I understand and convey all my friendships and wishes for a speedy recovery to your suffering collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u95	I'll tell him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u96	Having said that, I seize the leap in your commitment to come back before July 21. It's the right way to work. This could take place in parallel with the plenary meetings of the last week. Since, in principle, no legislation can be examined in committee, we may be able to hold a meeting with oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u97	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u98	I hope we will find a moment to organize one, because I do not want all these questions to remain unanswered during the holidays. Mrs. Lalieux was there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u99	No, no, don't worry: you'll get answers long, wide and across.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u100	It will be necessary to discuss with the secretariat and the Presidency what date prior to 21 July could be agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u101	That is a constructive proposal! Even if the Secretary reminds me that the President is not really in favour of asking questions in parallel with the plenary session, we will inform him of your agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u102	It is not a piece of legislation – which would be much more problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u103	No, no, of course not. In any case, I shall report to him the present discussion. In this way, we can meet on a Tuesday or a Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u104	Mr Nollet, you have kindly turned your questions No 26413, No 26414, No 26415, No 26416, No 26417 and No 26418 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u105	Because I was promised to answer for tomorrow, at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u106	Mr Nollet, I see that Mrs Opine's collaborator. You will receive them, therefore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u107	Madam Minister, on 23 May last I asked you in committee about the composition of the Monitoring Committee of the Energy Pact. In particular, I wanted to know: "What is its composition? Who will preside over him? We are talking about the presence of employers and industry. Which employers are these? What about workers and environmental associations? Which industries are these? Are they industries that consume or produce energy? What will be the place of those who produce exclusively renewable energy?" You responded to this request, which was also expressed the same morning by a representative of the employees on the Consultative Council of the CREG. Your speech ended with one: "I will record it and report it during our work." I come back to you to know what you have done with this request and to know the composition which, according to your answer, should be drawn up "in order to capture in a coordinated way the opinions of several institutions and stakeholders". I assume that, like me, you consider that in terms of energy these stakeholders are not limited to representatives of the administration alone and to representatives of industry and FEB, but they also include representatives of workers, small consumers' associations and environmental associations. So I come back with exactly the same questions as two months ago to find out where you are on this issue and what you proposed to the government in terms of composition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u108	Minister, I will join this question, but with much more fear than Mr Nollet has just said. The daily Le Soir was able to consult the draft bill establishing a federal energy committee. It is a text that you are wearing and that is currently under discussion in IKW – I imagine. According to the same newspaper, this committee will be responsible for monitoring the state of the country's security of supply, the impact on the climate of our energy mix, compliance with the Paris Agreements, the evolution of final energy prices with particular attention to the competitiveness of companies and the purchasing power of households. According to the newspaper, the composition of this new committee would be totally unbalanced. Section 5 of the draft bill provides that the committee shall consist of a chair, assisted by a vice-chair, three representatives of the federal government, one representative from each Region who decides to be represented, two representatives from industry and two representatives from the FEB. In other words, there will be two representatives of the FEB and two representatives of the industry who openly campaign against the closure of the entire nuclear park in 2025. But what is really problematic in our view is that no representation of trade unions, small consumers (residential, independent), very small businesses, SMEs, environmental associations is provided for in the draft legislation. Minister, what is your exact proposal? Is the newspaper Le Soir's announcement of this composition correct? How do you justify that four seats are given to FEB and FEBELIEC without giving equivalent representation to trade unions, consumer organisations, e.g. through the Belgian Association for Research and Expertise of Consumer Organisations, AB-Reoc? Why is there no provision for representation of environmental associations? Finally, how will this committee link its work with other bodies with close missions, such as the General Council of CREG and the CONCERE cooperation group of the federal and regional governments in the field of energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u109	Madam President, on April 20, 2018, the federal government decided to develop a monitoring and correction mechanism as provided for in the government agreement. The following elements will be monitored: the climate impact, with the assistance of the National Energy-Climate Commission, the evolution of energy prices and tariffs by FORBEG, security of supply by Elia, CREG and the administration (DG Energy). The safety of nuclear facilities is ensured by the AFCN. A federal Energy Committee is set up to ensure the achievement of the above objectives. It is composed, as you pointed out, of representatives from the federal government, the Regions, employers and industry. The project specifically provides that the Federal Energy Committee may seek the advice of experts and any other body or association active in the energy sector. The range is wide and unrestricted. As regards the consultation of the stakeholders, I would remind you that in the course of the work that led to the drafting of the Energy Pact, we had given the opportunity to some 100 energy players to express themselves and to participate between 3 May and 30 June in the feeding of this reflection. Then, we extended this opportunity to a very large number of citizens through a consultation open to all, using an online form on a dedicated site. This was the way, in 2017, to reach as quickly and effectively as possible a large number of people. With respect to the presence of employers and industries on the federal committee, I would like to point out that the government agreement is intended to preserve the competitiveness of our businesses, and that this decision has been made by the government in relation to this element. The Pact is a clear and long-term vision. This is an initiative – the Monitoring Committee – of the federal government, which is part of the implementation of this government agreement. Therefore, the presence of employers and industry respects the spirit and letter of this agreement. It is false to suggest that the defence of residential consumers is not assured, since the government agreement also provides for the preservation of household purchasing power. Federal officials will be responsible for meeting this requirement. I stress that the federal Energy Committee will send its reports to ministers as well as to Parliament. Democratic control will therefore be exercised directly by Parliament, which will hold the government accountable. Similarly, it is not true to claim that environmental interests would not be represented, since the National Energy-Climate Commission will prepare reports allowing the Committee to make recommendations. These CNC reports will verify compliance with the Paris Agreements. As regards the evolution of energy prices and tariffs, they will be ensured by consultation with FORBEG. For security of supply issues, which are not directly related to the presence or otherwise of those you would like to see on this committee, I therefore turn to the presence of Elias, CREG and DG Energy Administration in the context of security of supply. The text is currently being worked on at the IKW level. Since today's IKW also dealt with this issue, I hope that I will also be able to present this text to the Council of Ministers on Friday after Thursday's DAB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u110	Minister, this federal Energy Committee is becoming a real joke. It's a farce of very bad taste. How can you imagine that it is this committee that verifies the proper holding of the nuclear release and its timetable, while you are composed exclusively of people who are in favour of the extension. That doesn't make any sense! Of course I cannot accept that! I asked you ahead of the decision and you showed some kind of openness, saying: "That's true. I have also received other applications from workers, environmental associations, etc." There is not a single word of explanation that justifies why you have retained in this committee, beyond your administration of course, only people who are in favour of extending nuclear power. Not everyone else finds themselves there, but they have so much interest in checking that everything is well in place. Minister, you make the choice to take on the fact that we are working so that this committee can, at the appropriate time, as it pleases, continue to campaign for the extension of nuclear power. You're only putting lobbyists there who are campaigning in this direction. Such a policy is not balanced and inappropriate. As the text is not adopted in government, I hope you will amend it. You must at least balance the composition of this committee. This arrangement is not correct, even companies could tell you, some of which are nuclear and/or renewable energy producers. What is their place in this framework? We don't know. Environmental associations, in addition to consumer protection, are out of play. This view of the stakeholders is not balanced. You have chosen members of the committee to support the extension of nuclear power. This arrangement is completely unbalanced. We didn't expect you to make such a choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u111	Madam Minister, my remarks will be in line with those of my colleague. The N-VA didn't want the Energy Pact. We see how it locks it through this federal Energy Committee. When you say that the stakeholders were consulted, the FEB and FEBELIEC were also consulted, but they still have priority around the table. You point out that, in the government agreement, one point concerns the competitiveness of companies and that, for this reason, they are found around the table. But these are not all companies. In addition, in your government agreement, the purchasing power of citizens is dealt with. Yet these are not around the table. The same applies to respect for the environment and representatives of environmental associations. This composition is totally unbalanced. We didn't expect that kind of arrangement. But we know what the N-VA expected: to explain that we will not leave nuclear power in 2025. You're doing everything you can to achieve that goal. I hope that there will be no agreement and that this draft as drafted will not pass until 21 July. This is the first time that I have claimed that an energy issue does not go through until July 21. In fact, you will realize that this is totally unacceptable for the sector and for the image in relation to the true exit of the so-called nuclear, but which will never be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u112	Minister, L'Echo of this July 3rd reports on "discreet negotiations and at the top" on nuclear supplies that would bring around the table, in addition to representatives of your cabinet and the Prime Minister's office, the leaders of ENGIE and Electrabel but also old dinosaurs of the Etienne Davignon type – so much appreciated by the N-VA – and already present during the negotiations on the extension of the Doel 1 and 2 power plants, at the explicit request of Mr Wollants. Do you confirm the presence of these people and the meetings I have just mentioned? What exactly are these contacts about? What does ENGIE propose? To work by the tripartite convention rather than by the law, as L'Echo affirms? Do you confirm that ENGIE is also making proposals in terms of discount rates that could no longer be revised downwards? Did these discussions, at one point, focus on the amounts to be provided? Why is the Commission on Nuclear Supplies (CPN) out of the game and completely excluded from discussions when it is the official body responsible for nuclear supplies? And most importantly, why are the CNP's text and proposals not on Parliament's table when you have committed yourself to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u113	Madam President, Madam Minister, it has already been outlined, but according to De Tijd you, the Prime Minister and ENGIE are negotiating the facilities within Synatom. Reference is also made to the agreement in the context of the extension of the nuclear units Objective 1 and 2 in order to adapt the conditions of that nuclear savings fund. We know the story by now. Especially in the light of recent reports on the assets of ENGIE and the dividend paid, this deserves the attention of both the government and Parliament. As the legal end-of-life of a certain number of power stations approaches, it seems important to be able to strengthen the grip on these reserves. In doing so, consideration could be given to systematically allocating more of these funds directly to Synatom, with a maximum of 75% currently to be lent to the core operators. One possible way of thinking could be to reduce this percentage in the coming years. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the specific purpose of the negotiations? Secondly, what mandate did the Council of Ministers give you to conduct these negotiations? Thirdly, how do you see the feedback to the government and Parliament organised? Fourthly, how do you view the reduction of the maximum outstanding loans from the core operators? Fifth, since the 1.6 billion dividend operation, has the creditworthiness of the core operators been re-evaluated, as provided for in Article 14 of the Synatom Act? If so, what was the result? Sixthly, to what extent do the loans to Elia, ORES and Sibelga, which you mentioned in your reply to my written question on this subject, still run? What size are these loans? Following on from what Mr Nollet said in his introduction, why was I not invited to that meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u114	Madam President, Minister, we are all aware that the fees for decommissioning nuclear power plants today will not be sufficient to dismantle all nuclear power plants after the nuclear exit. As colleagues said, we read in L'Echo and in De Tijd that, at the request of ENGIE, there are discreet negotiations with you and the Prime Minister on Synatom. That raises a few questions. A number of questions have already been asked by colleagues, but I would like to repeat them. Can you explain more about the talks you and the Prime Minister are having with the ENGIE summit? Will the terms of the convention be tightened up or will you kneel down again for the French energy giant? You could remind ENGIE of its obligations by drafting a bill instead of a convention. Will there be this bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u115	Minister, are you in favour of establishing controls and guarantees for the loans granted by Synatom to Electrabel? Are you in favour of the fact that the Commission des réservations nucléaires (CPN) is informed prior to any change in the shareholding of Electrabel? Are you in favour of giving the CPN a power of injunction on Synatom? What are the arguments put forward by ENGIE Electrabel? What was the content of the meeting with the Prime Minister? And what's the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a historical reminder should be made. Discussions were initiated with the CPN, which received representatives of the ENGIE Electrabel Group. This seems to me quite normal since the CPN has been involved from the beginning and continues to work with us. I had asked the NPC to produce legislation to strengthen its powers under the 2003 Act. As I have already said, and I repeat, this law is overtaken by developments and needs to be reformed. The representatives of ENGIE Electrabel expressed their views on the bill at the CNP and asked to meet with the members of the government responsible for energy. It was in this context that I and the Prime Minister's office met with ENGIE representatives on several occasions. From the outset, we have set the goal that future generations do not have to pay for the costs of dismantling and downstream of the fuel cycle. As they had already done with the NPC, ENGIE representatives commented on the bill. In summary, they are satisfied with the 2003 legislation, which is not surprising. They obviously raise one or the other fear with regard to the strengthening of the CNP's powers. One thing is still obvious: wanting to strengthen the powers of a committee whose work is going to spread over years, through developments that will still take place in the years to come, is nothing extraordinary, is nothing problematic, especially if one has in front of either someone who provides the guarantee. Indeed, if this is provided, there is no reason for fear and there is no reason for the head of the body established by law to act on the basis of the strengthened means that would have been given to him. In my view, these are more discussions and exchanges than negotiations themselves. Indeed, as I said earlier, in response to an inquiry by Mr Nollet, in reality, we are not even stabilized on a text on which the protagonists would have requirements and which, after having obtained an agreement - no matter what! - to be presented to the government. This is an exchange and this exchange does not involve the revision of discount rates or amounts to be provided. It is simply an exchange that is taking place about this text, and that we are also moving forward with the aim of preventing the legislation that we are imagining from being subjected to remedies that would stop its effect. It is in this context that we believe that the discussions are very beneficial in order to give legal form to the text that we want to bring out. I give an example. The CPN is an administrative body. It will have to take decisions in this context throughout the process that will lead it to work to accompany the decommissioning cycle of nuclear power plants. This administrative authority must issue decisions which it must state in fact and in law. This requires expertise, staff resources, financial resources, etc. As you know, it is currently composed of five members who are, of course, eminent members, but who, for the time being, have quite limited resources and are, in any case, relatively logistically deprived. A short time ago, I - and you know - provided the NPC with an important supplementary budget so that it could work on these issues. This is what it has done by issuing, through a public contract with a law firm, the text that provokes reactions that are the subject of these exchanges. It will therefore still be necessary to put in place means to ensure that the NPC has everything it needs to be able to take the possible decisions according to the legal framework and to be able to motivate them in order to avoid appeals. Mr Wollants, you are asking me what I would think if Synatom's maximum loan to Electrabel were to decrease. If it's the CPN who decides it, I'd only think of it as good. The NPC is the independent body established by law that makes its decisions. It is his responsibility to ensure the prudential control of Synatom, which is in charge of the management of the appropriate provisions, i.e. the existence, sufficiency and availability of these provisions. If we give an instrument to the Nuclear Supplies Commission, we must make sure that it knows how to handle it. Nothing would be more damaging than decisions of the CNP that are set aside on appeal, for lack of adequate or appropriate reasons. We are therefore thinking about barring it from the powers necessary to be able to exercise its powers properly, without it costing the State and the citizen because it is up to the provisioning company and, behind it, the operator to assume. In the future, according to the operating rules you know, there will be an IKW when the texts are stabilized – this is not the case – and when the formalities such as the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate and others are completed. I have asked the Committee on Nuclear Supplies about ENGIE Electrabel's remarks and I look forward to his return. The government continues its work and when it has taken a position, it will send the text to the Council of State before presenting it to you. As far as the more specific technical questions are concerned, as you will find in my answer to your written question No 399 of 14 December 2016, the credit rating of Electrobel was estimated by Moody's at an A3 level since 2011. I also told you that in February 2016, credit rating was lowered to a Baa1 level, with a stable trend. That is what I also confirmed to Mr Nollet in my reply to his inquiry, i264, to which I replied at the Committee on the Economy on 6 June. According to information from Synatom, a new credit rating was issued by Moody's on June 27, 2018, confirming the credit rating of Electrabel at Baa1, with a stable trend. Also in my answer to your written question No. 399, I also said that the nuclear supply company Synatom, also lends funds to Elia, ORES and Sibelga, a loan to Eandis having expired at the end of 2013. Synatom still lends the following amounts: EUR 453 million to Elia, EUR 40 million to ORES and EUR 21 million to Sibelga. Synatom's investments are of several kinds. The portion of the provisions that may be loaned to nuclear operators and placed by the company constitutes 75%. The remaining 25 per cent are placed in loans to legal entities other than nuclear operators. Investments are made in assets outside nuclear operators, with sufficient diversification and distribution of investments, in order to minimize risks. The rule that Synatom retains cash at any time to finance the expenses of the next three years of operation must be respected. In this last category of investments, as you recall, Synatom invests mainly in a sicav in which two specific compartments have been created for the management of nuclear reserve funds: one for funds from Electrobel, the other for funds from EDF-Luminus. According to Synatom's information, this sicav, whose share of sovereign or corporate bonds is cash and is at least 40%, invests directly in open equity and bond funds, which are marketed by Amundi, AXA, State Street, Fortis and Schroder companies, as well as through specific mandates assigned to Amundi, Pimco and Allianz companies, which have been given a discretionary mandate to invest in high-quality investment grade bonds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u117	Minister, you have not answered two of my questions. Will ENGIE put forward proposals for discount rates that could no longer be revised downwards? Are these discussions also about the amounts to be provided? I will make my reply after having received an answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u118	Mr Nollet, I will ask the question, because I am not attending these meetings. In fact, my collaborator who is participating in it tells me that these discussions did not involve revisions to discount rates or amounts to be provided. That said, the shade you're introducing is important. So I'm going to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u119	Thank you, Minister. As with my other question, I will therefore receive your answer via your collaborator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u121	It is nevertheless particular to see a piece of legislation prepared by the CPN be discussed with the main actor who will be concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u122	He's the only one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u123	Minister, let Mr. Nollet continue with his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u124	Yeah, but it's interesting. He's the only one. However, it is particular to note that the actor covered by the law will negotiate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u125	No, no, it's just an exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u126	In any case, we can consult the text, even if we will see the changes that will have been made to it as a result of the NPC's proposal. I consider this to be a perfect illustration of how our country's energy policy is carried out: state or quasi-state actors – such as CPN, AFCN or ONDRAF – submit proposals; then, Electrabel seizes the text and proposes its own, before the government simply endorses it. That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u127	No, I can't agree with you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u128	You do not have to agree, Madam Minister, because this is a reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u129	It's like Doel 1 and 2. That is why I have tried to get to know this file upstream enough, so that I can intervene on the merits. Clearly, however, other dossiers are being replicated. I therefore remain very dubious about the outcome of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u130	Madam Minister, I remember, of course, what was in the written question you answered. I asked one detailed question about Synatom's technique in order to understand and assess that system properly. We need to see the situation wider than what you are referring to, namely adjusting that 75% on the basis of the creditworthiness of the core operator. That is the procedure to which you refer, in which that standard can be reduced in order to comply with the fact that lower creditworthiness could entail risk derivatives. The law also provides that there may be other solutions to this, such as the provision of personal guarantees and the like. That must indeed be done by this procedure and approved by the Council of Ministers. However, I am talking about a very different matter, about something that was not immediately included in the 2003 law: how does one deal with a story in which these things slowly reach the end of their life? Is it justified, for example, to keep that 75% until the very last year and then say that the 75% should be paid in or that it should go back to Synatom, or should it be possible to reduce it slowly so that it does not happen from one year to the next? If the percentage is to be kept at the same level for too long and loans are to be reclaimed at some point because they are needed in the story, then this can create a particular challenge and a shock effect. That's my concern. That's why I wanted to give that thinking track to see if there's any possibility of taking it down in an orderly way. That is not necessarily merely a decision of the nuclear facility body, but rather a policy decision, which is why I have put that question to you. No doubt, as in many cases, we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u131	Madam Secretary, your answer is extremely disturbing. As the President and Mr Wollants said about something else, we will certainly come back to this. I hope that we will not be faced with very great surprises when you come forward with draft legislation on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-04-54-commissie-ic940x.u132	I will close by saying that these negotiations with ENGIE Electrabel, which do not stop, are relatively worrying. We will see the results, hoping that future generations will not pay the cost of dismantling the plants.
