ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u1	Hello. We have a lot of questions on the agenda. I suggest you work with flexibility. Question No 25741 by Mr Delannois is transformed into a written question. We turn to Mr Delannois' other question, which is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u2	Minister, the hearing officers are responsible for the proper conduct of a hearing. In concrete terms, they are the first in court to ensure that all documents are ready before the magistrates arrive. In addition, they have a role to play in welcoming and guiding litigants and junior lawyers, which is very useful and reassuring for the president of the court. The function of hearing officer is special because it requires the fact of being retired in order to be able to be exercised. It also offers working conditions which pose certain difficulties. First, the daily working time is often limited and therefore requires the bailiff to move to the hearing place to carry out a very short mission which can be around two hours. However, the legislation, by virtue of Article 21 of the Labour Act of 16 March 1971, provides that the duration of each benefit may not be less than three hours unless exceptions are made. Second, the bailiff is forced to work a maximum of 22 hours per month and 264 hours per year. This constraint pushes the Ministry of Justice to restrict as much as possible the number of hours to be worked by the usher who must therefore demonstrate a very high productivity in order to carry out the fullness of his mission in the time allotted to him. At the same time, the magistrates want the number of hours to be worked by the bailiff to be increased in order to ensure that the hearing is conducted in the best possible conditions. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Does the function of hearing officer have a clear and precise status? If so, what is it? Is it part of the exceptions provided for in the Royal Decree of 18 June 1990 determining derogations from the minimum limit on the duration of workers' benefits? If the maximum hours to be worked were exceeded, would the payment of benefits be ensured? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u3	In reply to your first two questions, it should be made clear that the provisions of the Law of 16 March 1971 on working and rest time for workers, and in particular Articles 19 to 29, which specifically concern working hours, are not applicable to workers in the public sector, of which the bailiffs occupied by the State are part. The working time of employees in the public sector, both statutory and contractual, is in fact governed by the Act of 14 December 2000 laying down certain aspects of the organisation of working time in the public sector. However, such legislation does not fall within my jurisdiction but rather within the purview of my colleague the Minister of Defence responsible for the Public Service. I therefore recommend that you contact him for this purpose. It also follows from the above that the Royal Decree of 18 June 1990, made in implementation of Article 21 of the Labour Law, can no longer apply to the case of the hearing officer occupied by the State. As to whether the payment of the benefits of a hearing officer is ensured in case of exceeding the maximum hours to be worked, this also falls within the scope of the labour regulations specifically applicable to the public sector, in which the law of 14 December 2000 appears. Again, I recommend that you contact the Minister of Defence in charge of the Public Service to obtain an answer to your question. Unfortunately, skills are not interchangeable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u4	Thank you, Minister. I have recognized your flexibility from the beginning, but it is a little less clear in your answer. I'm going to speak to the Minister of Defence. Could you tell me who will be the Minister of Defence in charge of the Public Service in the coming weeks? It would also help me to know who I have to ask my question! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u5	Mr Minister, my first question dates back to 12 June, before the Summer Agreement. However, I would like to ask this question, because I assume you have also prepared the answer. This question fits in with the so-called efficacy agreement. In a letter to the Group of Ten, you called on the social partners to activate the large number of inactive people in the labour market by means of an employment agreement. It is well known that the number of vacancies is historically high. The unemployment rate is low for the first time in decades, while the number of inactive people who have no job or are not looking for a job is very high at 1.7 million. On 30 May, the Prime Minister presented a proposal for a pact in the fight against the bottleneck professions during the consultation committee of the governments of that country. Minister, what specific advice and guidelines did you give to the social partners? Has the government attached conditions to the implementation of a wage agreement in this respect? To what extent are your advices and guidelines similar to the Prime Minister's mentioned pact? My second question, combined with this, concerns the agreements with the Regions on the measures to activate 50+. As early as spring, I asked you an oral question on these measures. In the meantime, an opinion was obtained from the National Labour Council in response to the question of what measures the NAR proposes to encourage 50+ to remain in work. In addition, proposals were asked to allow job seekers or inactive over 50 to take up the job and to encourage employers to hire and retain them. The government sounded the so-called labor deal. Minister, what is the content of the NAR's opinion on the activation of the 50-plussers? What measures have been developed, including in the employment deal, to promote the activation policies of over 50 people in consultation with the Regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u6	Ms. Galant is absent and Mr. Hedebouw withdrew her two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u7	Minister, the Conseil Supérieur de l'Emploi (CSE) presented its 2018 report on the state of the labour market in our country. Despite an employment rate of 68.5%, Belgium's performance remains below that of its neighbours. The SSC is clear: the Europe 2020 target is now out of reach for our country. At present, the SSC indicates that the situation is of particular concern for young people, over 50 years of age, women, non-European nationals and low-skilled people. This labour market reality is expected to worsen with the expected slowdown in growth and the challenge of ageing. In an attempt to respond to these tensions, you and the SSC propose various measures: to increase the follow-up of jobseekers, to promote tax provisions aimed at increasing the gap between low wages and unemployment benefits, to provide financial and tax incentives to encourage employers to train their workers over 50 years of age, or to speed up collective redundancies. My questions are as follows, minister. You seem to want to set up more incentives, including financial and tax incentives, to encourage job seekers and older workers to return to work. Can you detail them? What do you expect for the 20-24 year olds who are in a particularly critical situation? How do you intend to involve employers better? You claim that you are against a limitation of unemployment benefits over time; is that the government's position? Should we expect reform in this area in the near future? Belgium has experienced several waves of collective redundancies, particularly in large-scale distribution; the SSC recommends speeding up procedures in this area. Can you tell us your position on this? That was my first question. Let me turn to my second question. It focuses more on the scientific opinion on the reform of the degression of unemployment. We have all read the opinion of the 16 academic experts who dismantled the reform of unemployment benefits decided this summer by the government. According to them, the degression of benefits is ineffective in terms of job search. They point to the fact that it has "the primary purpose of the benefit system, namely to provide insurance against loss of income". To that, you replied that you would not change course and that the reform would be carried out. Therefore, despite the opinion of these 16 experts, who demonstrate that the reform is ineffective, you persist in this liberal ideology of continuous weakening of social security and therefore of solidarity among all Belgians. Social security is a major achievement that enables our citizens to be better protected from crises. This system must be strengthened and defended and not used for budgetary purposes, as the government has been doing since the beginning of this legislature. In this regard, can you explain objectively how your reform will enable job seekers to find a job more quickly? What is the estimated budgetary impact of this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u8	Mr President, although not all Members are present, I will give the full answer. As you know, we concluded a federal and interfederal labour deal last summer. As far as the federal labour deal is concerned, I can inform you that a working party will discuss draft royal decrees and laws next Thursday. That's already in one newspaper or another, which wasn't meant to be, but okay. Someone apparently forwarded the texts not only to the members of the IKW, but also to a journalist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u10	No, no one is to blame, certainly not you, Mr Van der Donkt, because you have not yet received the texts. At least that's what I'm assuming. As far as the interfederal labour deal is concerned, the Prime Minister's cabinet is currently in charge of the work. I can tell you that in September we met the regional ministers for work and specifically discussed those themes for which there is a shared competence in the interfederal labour deal. It concerns the community service, SWT, the list of bottleneck professions and interregional mobility. A follow-up meeting is scheduled for November. In the meantime, a topic of the Federal Employment Deal has been widely disseminated in the press and concerns the degressiveness of unemployment benefits. Mr Daerden, I will therefore answer your questions. In an opinion article published in the newspaper De Tijd on September 25, 2018 under a revealing title "Langer werkloos, meer uitkering? Ernstig blijven", Stijn Baert, Professor of Labour Economics at the Universities of Ghent and Antwerp, reacted to the proposal of a group of economists that unemployment benefits should be increased in the light of the increase in the duration of unemployment. It is hardly conceivable that an unemployed person should be encouraged to find work if his or her allowances were to increase over time. The unemployed person would, in a way, be rewarded for remaining unemployed. That cannot be our goal. In addition, there is a reason why the amount of benefits is higher during the initial phase of unemployment. Indeed, this amount allows the worker faced with the bad luck of a dismissal, to take the time to find a job that corresponds to his skills and experience, with a limited loss of wages. If the benefits were lower, the unemployed would be forced, out of necessity, to accept a job for which they would be overqualified. Given the high need for skilled personnel that we currently have, such a mismatch in our labour market is truly detrimental. I could still mention many advantages related to the granting of higher allowances at the beginning of the unemployment period, but I will limit myself to one other important point. In times of economic recession, our social security system acts as a strong buffer to limit the loss of income, while maintaining the habit of household consumption. This has a moderating effect and it is no coincidence that the banking crisis has hit Belgium less severely than other countries. At present, we are still working on a concrete proposal to adapt the degressiveness of unemployment benefits. I am not yet in a position to disclose the details, but it is in any case agreed in the summer agreement that the benefits will be increased during the first six months, that the degression will be intensified and that the lump sum unemployment benefits for the third period will be maintained at their current level. In addition, the aim is to simplify the system and strengthen the link with training. It is important to note that the reform is not intended to achieve budgetary savings but is aimed at better use of available resources and an increase in the activity rate. Then I come to the question of the employer's response, asked by a colleague who is not present at the moment. Belgium has a highly developed labour legislation requiring companies to comply with sanctions. Companies may invest more in training for their employees, but an important measure has already been taken in the law of 5 March 2017 on workable and manoeuvrable work. It sets an average target of five days of training per full-time employee per year. The measure is implemented by collective agreements within the Joint Committees, by an individual training account or, in the absence thereof, by an individual right to training. The employment deal also included that the sectors should provide an overview of the training effort they are making, in particular, but not only in the context of the bottleneck professions. As far as the wage scales are concerned, before the start of the sectoral negotiations, I asked the social mediators to put the adjustment of the seniority scales on the agenda, particularly in those sectors where the pay gap is greatest on the basis of seniority. I have repeated this question in the context of the implementation of the recent Summer Agreement. The employment objective is central to this, but it is also possible to study it from the point of view of discrimination. This call for social consultation is not so much about replacing seniority pay by performance-oriented pay, but about how the rising labour costs of an older worker are proportional to productivity by systems of seniority pay, and thus a brake or threshold for the employment or reemployment of such workers and for the performance of these undertakings. On the basis of a renewed analysis of my administration, it appears that the seniority-related tension in the sectoral minimum wage scales within one and the same job category for workers is on average less than 7% and for servants less than 33%. These are percentages for 2018. So our demand for equal opportunities is an invitation to a thorough preparation with all the social partners. The study currently being carried out by the Central Council for Industry can provide a basis for dealing with this problem objectively and without prejudice. Then there is another question about raising the entry age for runways. I must contradict Mr Hedebouw's theorem. I'll leave it at that. As regards the collective redundancies procedure - the question put by Mr Daerden - I can tell you that, in general, it is clear from the statistics drawn up by my administration on restructuring that the length of the information and consultation procedure in the event of collective redundancies is not a problem. These statistics are available on the Employment FPS website. For example, the average closing time for the information and consultation procedure during the period from January to December 2017 was 90 days. The median duration was 80 days. These figures indicate that it does not seem useful, contrary to the recommendations of some, to set a maximum regulatory term for the duration of this information and consultation procedure. The establishment of a maximum term could even have a negative effect on compliance with the information and consultation procedure. As you know, this procedure is based on the mutual trust of workers' and employers' representatives. It is in the interests of each of the parties to ensure that this procedure is carried out correctly. In the event of a time limit, it is feared that the time limit will expire before the actual information, consultation or search for ways of mitigating the consequences of collective redundancies can be made available. In addition, in the event of a time limit being fixed, it will be necessary to determine what the penalty will be in the event of an exceedance of that time limit. Will the procedure be deemed to have been carried out in practice or not? Therefore, it may be considered that the imposition of a time limit affects compliance with information and consultation obligations, while the absence of a term ensures compliance with these obligations. In the meantime, we also asked the CNT about the revision of the Renault law and the CNT gave the question to the Group of Ten. That brings me to Mr Van der Donkt's question on the activation of the 50-plussers. Yesterday we received the advice on runways, but I have not yet been able to read it. As you know, within the federal labour deal, we have already approved the easing of the royal decision on soft runways. Mr De Block has asked for a separate opinion from the NAR on this matter. As soon as I read the advice received yesterday, I can deliver it to you. I understand from the initial reports that the social partners are against this, but we have already approved the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u11	Thank you, Minister. Some elements of reaction, particularly in relation to the aspect of degression. I welcome your intention to increase the initial allowance, placing the job seeker in the best conditions to return to an occupation. When you say "so that he can take the time", I think it is never the job seeker's objective to "take the time" but rather to seize a "good opportunity". But I am not sure that a period of six months is sufficient in this respect. I am also pleased to hear you say that it is important to have strong social security, a solid bulwark, to use your expression, and that this has had a dampening effect on the consequences of the crisis. On the other hand, when you find it impossible to maintain a large allowance, which is false to what the experts say, and when you do not "reward" the unemployed person who would remain unemployed, I obviously cannot agree with this type of comment because I have the feeling that a job seeker – with few exceptions – does not ask to remain so. So it is not "rewarded" by simply staying unemployed! The vast majority of the unemployed are in fact asking only to be able to reintegrate into working life. This allocation therefore has nothing of a "reward" as such. In relation to collective redundancies, I mean that you are not in favour of setting a deadline. I can join you on this point, because I believe that there should be room for negotiation, good information, good discussion, and that limiting the deadline would not be ideal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u12	Mr Minister, my question concerns the abuse of au pairs. The government agreement states that we would fight this abuse in consultation with the Regions. An au pair young person is a young person who is temporarily admitted to a host family and who, in exchange for light domestic work, can expand his language skills of the host country and his general cultural knowledge by participating in the family life of the host family. The Royal Decree applicable to au pairs states that they may be granted a work permit and a work permit B. For the record, an au pair younger is not just someone who is employed. It's not a nanny, it's not a babysitter or a domestic servant. The spirit of the au pair system is that cultural education and linguistic enrichment prevail. The employment aspect is there, but it is very limited. Specific conditions are therefore imposed to prevent or prevent abuse. For example, an au pair may do light domestic work, but this must be limited to a maximum of four hours a day and must not exceed 20 hours a week. In addition, the host family should grant supervisory officials access to the home in order to allow for possible inspections. Now, recently, a study by the Flemish Labour Inspectorate showed that 72% of host families with au pairs are breaking the rules. This is also apparent from many testimonies by au pairs themselves. In many cases, the aspect of employment still prevails on cultural education and exchange. For some abusers, the au pair system becomes a channel for legal labour migration, which was never intended. Moreover, what we see now is just the tip of the iceberg. This study is only about an evaluation of the non-European au pairs, since the European au pairs should not even register. In this way it is impossible to see the abuse of European au pairs, although of course there is. Fortunately, an opinion has been issued recently. The Flemish Labour Inspectorate asked for an opinion from the Flemish Parliament via the SERV on the system of au pairs. The SERV has issued a number of recommendations. Firstly, they propose that all au pairs, both European and non-European, should be obliged to make a declaration to Dimona. This is how transparency is achieved. This gives an overview of the number of European and non-European au pairs. Of course, there must be rules here too. For example, the maximum number of hours allowed to work will remain unchanged, i.e. up to 20 hours. The SERV also recommends the creation of a contract of employment with the same wage and working conditions as for domestic residents, in order to better protect the au pair. A third recommendation is to provide for mediation by placing an au pair in a host family through a temporary agency. It is possible to verify compliance with the conditions of legal recognition and that the rights of the au pair are not infringed. It is also an additional advantage for the host family, because they have less red tape. In addition to the advice of the SERV, there is also a recent advice from the Court of Auditors. In this opinion, the Court of Auditors makes two proposals. They recommend the creation of an employment status for au pairs. In addition, they also call for a clear framework for EU au pairs, which is not currently the case, with respect to strict rules on permitted work, remuneration, the cultural component that should be mandatory and penalties for abuses to be established after checks. What is your opinion on SERV's recommendations to combat abuses in au pairs? Do these three proposals from the Service seem to you to be feasible slopes? What do you think of the Court of Auditors' proposal to develop an employment statute for au pairs? That, too, is something that falls within your competence. Does that look like a viable piste to you? What do you think that statute should look like? What do you think of the Court of Auditors' proposal to create a clear framework for EU au pairs? That was also a proposal from the SERV. They say that through Dimona we will also see the au pairs from the EU. Perhaps there will be as many, if not more, abuses there. However, that remains under the radar because they do not have to register at all. What about the consultation with your colleagues from the Länder on the amendment of the au pair statute and the other measures you would take to prevent abuse? What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, a stay as an au pair means that a young person from a foreign country or part of the country temporarily lives with a host family with the aim of getting to know the language and culture of the country of residence through integration into that family. The host family is supposed to involve the au pair in the social activities which form part of family life. In principle, domestic work, if any, is at most a means of achieving the desired integration into the family. The proposal of the SERV and the Court of Auditors to develop an employment statute for au pairs, for example, by allowing them to sign a contract of employment or by having them placed with a family through a temporary employment agency, has the effect that the legislator can now already consider au pairs employees. This automatically means that the employment aspect would become the main objective of the stay as an au pair. A contract of employment is, after all, an agreement to have work done in a relationship of subjugation against payment of a wage. The question should therefore be asked as to whether the conclusion of a contract of employment for au pairs is the appropriate solution to deal with existing abuses. This track means that the legislator assumes that social and cultural integration is no longer central to employment in the host family, in other words that the employment of the host family is no longer merely a means but an end in itself. In principle, it is possible to develop the status of au pair outside the framework of an employment contract. For the purposes of applying the rules of employment protection law, such as the Labour Law, it is not important whether a person is employed on the basis of a contract of employment, as those rules apply in principle to anyone who carries out work under the authority of another person, even if that is done outside the framework of a contract of employment. The question then arises as to what level of policy should be responsible for drawing up such a statute. If one considers that the main aspect of the stay as an au pair lies in the employment of the host family, then the federal level is responsible for drawing up such a statute. However, it should be noted that such an approach would run counter to the current way in which work as an au pair is defined in the European Directive 2019/801, clearly identifying the labour aspect as secondary. The directive refers to family inclusion with the aim of improving the language skills and knowledge of the Member State in question in exchange for light domestic work and care of the children. If, on the other hand, one considers that the main aspect of a stay as an au pair lies in sociocultural integration, then, of course, the competence of the Communities comes into the picture. In any case, even without any statute, I believe that it is already possible today to tackle the existing abuses through coordinated checks by the Flemish and Federal Labour Inspectorate, in so far as they can rely on admission to residence. If, as a result of an investigation carried out by the inspection services, it appears that a stay as an au pair actually amounts to hidden employment in the black, the labour inspectorate may requalify the au pair contract as an ordinary contract of employment, which automatically entails the application of all the rules of labour law. On 8 November 2017, I wrote to the Prime Ministers of the three Communities regarding the statute of au pair. The discussions in the context of the transposition of the Singlemit Directive into the Consultation Committee had shown that there was still uncertainty as to the competence of au pairs. The question was raised as to whether the respective governments intended to take an initiative on the statute for au pairs. Prime Minister Demotte of the French-speaking Community and Minister Weykmans of the Government of the German-speaking Community replied that they did not consider themselves competent to regulate the status of au pair. Unfortunately, we have not yet received an answer from the Flemish Government. As a result of your question, I will ask the question again to those whose answers we have not yet received. If I have also received an answer from the Flemish Government and if that corresponds to other answers, or at least to the answer from Prime Minister Demotte, then we will take the necessary action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u14	Minister, I would like to stress that the SERV has made it very clear that employment is not central. In my opinion, we must continue to defend the view that employment is certainly not the main objective. The SERV therefore states that we must ensure that the current maximum number of hours, twenty hours a week, is not exceeded. There must be no misunderstanding about that. Therefore, if you have a contract, you are not necessarily an employee. As an example, I mention students who perform a student job. Those students may work under a contract, but they're still students. Whoever works at a baker or butcher also has a contract, but is not suddenly an employee. So I think it is perfectly possible to conclude a contract for au pairs for the part of the job without becoming employees. A second point I would like to raise again is that there remains a problem, above all, for unregistered European au pairs. The SERV proposes to arrange things through Dimona, which certainly seems to me to be a good track and which is certainly possible once we have entered into contracts. In this way it can also be checked how many hours of work are being worked and whether the number of working hours remains limited, just as with job students. If you do not opt for the Dimona declaration, I think that another registration system should be found, which will also show the European au pairs. A registration also allows inspection. At the moment, however, inspection is not possible, because we do not even know exactly where European au pairs are, since they are not registered. I note that some regions are apparently not interested in it, hide behind it that it is not their competence or even answer it. However, the problem remains very large, since 72% of host families are breaking the rules and au pairs are used as nannys, as low-cost servants or as domestic servants. That's not the point. I'm sure I can count on you to deal with that abuse. We can then possibly do it as the SERV proposes. Those are not frivolous proposals. One can perfectly create a contract without suddenly becoming employees. I will soon ask you a question about the state of affairs, after you have received an answer from the Flemish Government, among other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u15	Mr Minister, it is reported that there is a Bulgarian health care company operating in the elderly care market in this country that would not pay its employees half of the Belgian minimum wage. This is a Belgian bvba with nine Bulgarian healthcare companies, with their headquarters in Bulgaria. One of those Bulgarian healthcare companies would have run into a problem in 2016. Our inspection services would then have found that the labour rights and social rights of workers employed in that country were violated, inter alia by underpayment, non-compliance with working hours and rest periods, and so on. Not only the carers would be treated unfairly, but also the customers. These companies call on a Belgian bvba but eventually sign a direct agreement with one of the Bulgarian subsidiaries. They will then send the care aid to Belgium for a period of six months. In addition, customers would be responsible for living and living, Internet access and plane tickets, while the company would withhold the same costs from the official wages of the carers. There is also no guarantee that the caregivers have received the necessary training to carry out care work. In response to a previous question on this issue, the Flemish Minister, Jo Vandeurzen, stated on 30 May in the Flemish Parliament that you would contact the Bulgarian government on this issue. Minister, I would like to receive an answer from you to the following questions. Firstly, is it true that already in 2016 a Bulgarian healthcare company linked to a Belgian healthcare company was the subject of an investigation of the social inspection? If you answer in the affirmative, what offences have been established? Secondly, are you aware of this care carousel from Bulgaria? Have you already instructed your inspection services to carry out a thorough investigation? Thirdly, did you, as the Minister responsible for consumer protection, also have an investigation into whether customers, as consumers, have not been deceived or mistreated? Fourthly, what measures have you taken, if any, to prevent such possible abuses in the future? Fifth and finally, what is the outcome of the consultations you had with the competent Bulgarian minister? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u16	My question is very similar and concerns the same SPRL. What is the status of discussions with the Bulgarian authorities? Has a solution been found to effectively sanction this undertaking? Are other companies of the same type active in Belgium and are you discussing this with other foreign authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u17	Colleagues, it is true that the Federal Labour Inspectorate of the SPF ETCS (Employment, Labour and Social Concertation) has already opened investigations against the companies mentioned in the press. However, these investigations have already been carried out. In 2011, an investigation was opened against the Bulgarian company Borin. On this occasion, a report was drawn up for non-payment of Belgian minimum wages and overtime. For these offences, it was decided to impose an administrative fine. The company is no longer active in Belgium. This company was succeeded by a Bulgarian company Care4You. These studies resulted in a pv of 2013 and a pv of 2015. In the first case, an administrative fine was imposed again. In the second case, it came to a judgment of the Antwerp correction court in 2016. This also involved infringements of Belgian minimum wages, overtime, obstructing supervision, illegal deduction of wages and working on Sundays and public holidays. This company disappeared from Belgium after formatting the PV's. A number of companies have already received three CVs, but no decision has yet been taken on this matter. In the meantime, the last company active in the sector is also under investigation. In the meantime, the case has already been forwarded to the judicial authorities in Antwerp. These investigations were carried out in consultation with the Flemish inspection and the social inspection for possible infringements of the Posting of Workers Regulations. The Economic Inspectorate did not receive any signals on this matter nor did it carry out any investigations. At Flemish level, the Health Inspectorate established the qualifications of the persons concerned in application of the Decree on care and assistance. In addition, it came to a fine that was paid. A second higher fine was not paid. This is currently the subject of legal proceedings. Respect for Belgian working conditions and remuneration in the context of the free movement of services is an important point in my agenda and yours too, I think. Belgium has always been a leader at European level with regard to the principle of equal pay for equal work, and it will remain so. In order to ensure this respect, the inspection services were strengthened during this legislature by 104 social inspectors. In the meantime, I have also had telephone contact with my Bulgarian colleague, who assured me the full cooperation of the Bulgarian inspection services. All the questions that our inspection services provided to Bulgaria have been answered correctly and fully. While our inspection services had sufficient elements to initiate new legal proceedings, it has now become apparent that the individuals involved have changed their business model. They no longer work only with posted Bulgarian workers but assist the same Bulgarian workers and their clients to register as workers for the elderly in need of care and present themselves as intermediaries of both sides. Working conditions and working hours do not seem to change at present. Our Inspection is examining how to deal with this new form of social dumping. In any case, persons who require care must be informed that, by registering as employers, they are subject to legal proceedings for non-compliance with various aspects of social legislation. Our inspection service has informed in writing several social secretariats to which Bulgarian intermediaries are addressed to settle the registration as an employer and as a worker. Thus, these social secretariats can do what is necessary to prevent people from exposing themselves without knowledge of the cause or non-compliance with the rules of Belgian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is indeed important that this dossier is followed very closely, not only in the context of social dumping but also in order to protect the weakest in our society, the elderly. Thank you for the meticulous follow-up. I hope that this will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u19	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Of course, I fully agree with you on the principle of equal pay for equal work. I insist that you follow this issue closely and have a firm attitude because these dumping practices are completely unacceptable, especially, as my colleague has just said, in this area of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u20	Question No 25854 by Mr. Van Quickenborne is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u21	Mrs. Cassart is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u22	Mr President, Minister, at the Social Affairs Committee meeting on 25 April I already questioned you about the adaptation to European standards of legislation on the recovery of sick days during holidays. You replied that the contacts between your cabinet and the European Commission have been intensified since 2016 to ensure, on the one hand, that Belgian legislation is correctly interpreted and perceived by the European authorities and, on the other hand, to see whether or not our current legislation complies with the European directive. You specified that a letter from the NAR went to the European Commission to see a number of outstanding questions answered. The European Commission's response would be very soon. I submitted my question on 21 June at your policy level and will be discussed in the NAR. You then, in April, ended your speech by saying: 'I hope, together with you, that the social partners will be very much in favour of the next few weeks, even better: in the coming days, but it will be a matter of finding a solution in the coming weeks, so that Belgian legislation is adapted and will be in conformity with European legislation and case law. If there is no agreement between the two sides of industry, and if there is no agreement between the two sides of industry, I will instruct my administration to draw up a proposal which will be in accordance with European legislation and case law. This will allow workers who fall ill during their holidays to take leave at a later date. Hopefully we can land in the next few weeks. If there is no landing, I will now announce that I will take an initiative myself and talk to the government about it." Mr Minister, at the meeting on 25 April, I promised you that I would follow this dossier closely, and that is why I am putting the following questions to you today. Have the social partners landed, and if so, what is the outcome? If the social partners have not landed, what initiative have you already taken? Have there been any relevant findings from the European Commission's above-mentioned response? If you can give me a copy of that answer, I am very grateful. How will a control mechanism be developed to prevent any abuses in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u23	Mr Van der Donkt, it is good that you keep your promise. Negotiations on the adaptation of Belgian legislation on annual leave to the case law of the European Court of Justice are at a final stage. In this context, the social partners first submitted a number of interpretation questions to the European Commission in order to provide an accurate picture of the way in which Belgian legislation can be adapted in a legally correct manner. The social partners received a reply in May. On several substantive points, the Commission was very clear. At a new meeting with the European Commission on 18 September, the possible bottlenecks were discussed and on this basis the administration drew up a new draft KB. In other words, the following adjustments will be made to the Royal Decree of 30 March 1967. Firstly, the sick days that fall during the worker's holiday period will be converted into sick days. Secondly, the employee is given 15 months, counting from the end of the holiday year, to record the lost days. Thirdly, the worker is given unlimited time, counting from the end of the holiday year, to take up the lost days in the event of maternity or paternity rest, as provided for in Article 39 of the Work Act of 16 March 1971. Fourthly, the days which the worker cannot take on holiday due to sickness and maternity or paternity rest, as provided for in Article 39 of the Work Act of 16 March 1971, during the holiday, will be settled in December. This statement shall have the character of a prepayment. We keep the agreement here in the National Labour Council. A further working group meeting of the social partners in the National Labour Council is scheduled for 28 November. This will focus on the possible budgetary impact on health insurance if workers who become ill during their planned holiday receive a sickness benefit. The possibilities for monitoring by the employer and the RIZIV will also be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The promise that I will continue to follow up on this dossier, I repeat. We will probably discuss this subject again in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u25	Minister, while discussions had stalled since early May, management and employee representatives from Brussels Airlines reached an agreement in early August. Management has been open to improving the driver's personal/life balance. Finally, you were able to receive both parties to your firm. At this stage, the parties agreed to grant an additional period ending on 30 November on the basis of what I was able to read in the press on the issue of seasonal crews and remuneration. Can you tell us what the discussions were at your meeting with the management of Brussels Airlines and the workers' representatives? The deadline of 30 November is mentioned in order to finalize an agreement. Can you confirm that? Are you able to inform us of the progress of discussions between management and employee representatives at this stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday morning of 23 May, the management of Brussels Airlines was received by the Employment Policy Unit in my office. On the afternoon of that same day, an interview was held with the three permanent union secretaries. One of the concerns of pilots and, by extension, of cabin personnel with Brussels Airlines concerns the request to take into account, when raising the pension age in the general pension scheme, the specific pension scheme for aircrew which had been abolished a few years ago. More concretely, they demand that the consequences be mitigated. In the meantime, an agreement has been reached to resolve this issue at the sectoral level through SCP 315.02 for airlines. On 15 June, a technical note was approved by representatives of employers and workers. Subsequently, a joint delegation from this SCP was received to the office of the competent Minister Bacquelaine where the note and the professional specificity of the aircrew in the context of their pension issues were specified. At the company level, negotiations have been under way since June, spread over various areas. Partial agreements have even already been concluded, including on the said "Work Life Balance" and the working hours regime. We can add that the withdrawal of notice of strike was a positive point for the climate of negotiations, that important steps have been taken and that negotiations are on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u27	Thank you for this information, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u28	Minister, last February, you presented the application created by the ONEM which allows the worker to know how many months of career interruption, time credits or thematic leave it can take. It is a particularly useful tool that allows for greater clarity and transparency for the worker, and we welcome it. When presenting the application, you provided figures. These figures show that the proportion of citizens taking a career break differs from region to region. Indeed, in 2017, 72% of workers who had taken a career break were Flemish, 22%, Walloons and 5%, Brussels. At the time you said that an investigation would be launched to find out the reasons for this differential. Can you provide us with the results of this survey?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u29	Dear colleague, during the presentation of the Break@Work app, ONEM presented the different types of people who used a career break in 2017 (time credit and thematic leave). The statistics of the ONEM confirm that the Flemish Region accounts for 73%, the Walloon Region for 22% and the Brussels-Capital Region for 5% of the beneficiaries. The annual report of the ONEM published in March 2018 has also taken over the profile of recipients on career breaks or on time credit. In 2017, more than seven out of ten beneficiaries came from the Flemish Region. In addition, a large majority are women (66.8 per cent). Older workers are much more represented than younger workers. More than half of recipients are over 50, while only 5.2% are under 30 years of age. It is apparent from the consultation with the ONEM that the latter can produce statistical data, but not the analysis or study that would explain why Walloon or Brussels workers choose less for a career break or a credit-time. The FPS and the ONEM were asked to examine how these major differences could be explained. As soon as the data on this subject are available, I will certainly pass them on to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u30	Thank you, Minister. Don't you have any idea the timing? When will the information be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u31	As soon as possible, Mr. Daerden.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u32	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u33	Mr President, a Spanish court has ruled that the partnership between Deliveroo and his employees is indeed an employment relationship, even though Deliveroo denies it. When converting the partnerships into a self-employed agreement at the beginning of this year, you announced a coordinated investigation between the inspection services, Justice and Police. In previous questions about its results, you said that this was crossed by the initiative of the Ghent and Brussels labour auditors, who had also ordered an investigation, and that you were therefore powerless to do so. Can research orders from labour auditors complete investigations of the inspection, on their own initiative or at the request of the Minister, initiated earlier? What's the progress on the tests? When will we, and especially the employees, finally be clear about the nature of the employment relationship of these employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u34	Mr President, I have already questioned you on several occasions about the employment situation at the company of Deliveroo. Since 5 February all couriers work under a self-employed statute sui generis. In May, Deliveroo announced that she was offering a new insurance package for her couriers. At the beginning of October, we learned that hundreds of couriers were called as witnesses by the Justice Department. I have the following questions for you. What is the content of the new Deliveroo insurance package? What are the social consequences of the recognition as a digital platform for couriers? Are they building up social rights despite the fact that they do not pay social contributions? Are the results of the ongoing investigations of the labour inspector, police forces and inspection services already available? If so, what is its content? If not, when are they expected? In the meantime, is there any clarity? Are these couriers now self-employed on the basis of a freelance sui generis model, where they are no longer paid per hour but per delivery, or are they employees? Student labour has recently been reformed and expanded to 475 hours a year. To what extent is student labour compatible with the piecework set out by Deliveroo? I look forward to your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand your impatience. Because I share it. I would very much like to make strong progress on this dossier, if only to answer your questions. The judicial investigation concerning the status of the couriers of the company Deliveroo is coordinated by the Brussels Labour Auditorate. It has already given rise to numerous investigative acts and is still in full swing. They're still interrogating all those people. Apparently, this takes a lot of time. I wonder why this has to take so much time. In accordance with the confidentiality of judicial information and the separation of powers, I cannot do much about it, except to wait and see how this goes and hope that it will be completed quickly. In Belgium, the assessment of whether an employment relationship is carried out on the basis of a contract of employment or on the basis of a contract of adoption should be carried out within the framework of the Programme Act of 27 December 2006. This law on employment relations lays down the principle that the parties freely choose the nature of their employment relationship. This may therefore be cooperation on the basis of a contract of employment for employees or a contract for the adoption of self-employed workers. The effective implementation of the agreement must be consistent with this chosen nature. The law provides for four general criteria which allow an assessment to be made of the existence or absence of an authority relationship. In two decisions of 23 February 2018 and 9 March 2018, the French-speaking section of the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of Employment Relations, applying this Act, considered that, in respect of two employees to whom the company Deliveroo intended to impose the self-employed status, there was not an independent partnership but a contract of employment. These two decisions apply only to the two applicants in their concrete employment relationship with Deliveroo and to the social security institutions in the present case. These two decisions do not include any legal binding on all Deliveroo delivery companies. Colleagues, I can only hope with you that we can conclude the interviews fairly quickly and then I can finally get to work on the outcome. This is a rather frustrating file for me, too. However, I can only wait for the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u36	Mr Minister, we have already heard this answer and it is the same. In fact, you are not supposed to conduct the investigation yourself. Fortunately, there is a separation of powers in our country. On the other hand, it takes quite a long time. I hope you will use your position to insist that the investigation be carried out quickly and that it be given the necessary priority. The longer people are in uncertainty, the worse the situation is. We will follow up on the situation and hopefully we will get a little more clarity soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your efforts and for following up on this dossier. We very much appreciate this. We will continue to follow up on this, beyond party boundaries and opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u38	Minister, since the question is quite long, I will try to summarize it. A European agreement has been concluded in connection with the Directive on posted workers. I am pleased to see a number of advances in this agreement and to learn that the new scheme aims to guarantee the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place of work. However, although there are several positive points to be made, I would like to address some areas of shadow that remain. First of all, the text logically distinguishes the remuneration of accommodation, transport and food allowances. These can no longer be regarded as elements of wages. However, they are paid on the basis of the packages established in the country of dispatch. I doubt that a Polish worker (or another national) who works by secondment on a Belgian yard can, under such conditions, shelter and feed properly. Secondly, I also note that the European Commission's initial proposal targeted subcontracting chains. These have disappeared from the final text and could lead to disparities on the same site. Thirdly, I wonder about the limitation to 18 months (12 + 6) of the duration of the secondment: what is the average duration of a secondment in Belgium and Belgian detachments abroad? Fourthly, what are the effective measures against false detachments and other "box companies"? Fifthly, how do you judge the powers of the future European Labour Authority in order to promote better coordination between the labour inspections of the Member States without replacing them? Sixth question: in the context of the ongoing revision of the European regulations for the coordination of social security schemes, the Commission has proposed a better framework for the procedure for issuing A1 certificates. It is regrettable that she wishes to use the means of delegated acts to achieve this. On the contrary, we hope that greater flexibility will be given to the Member States in order to strengthen controls. We must be able to secure this form, including a photo or scanning it. It is also a matter of achieving the creation of a European social security number. Seventh, should the status of multi-employer be aligned with that of posted worker? Finally, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what is the status of the road sector, which is therefore still under discussion, an area where social dumping is most prevalent? Beyond these precise and technical questions, I would like to know your overall assessment of the revision of the directive: can we in Belgium hope for an end to the fraud and excesses found in certain sectors which have been severely affected by this unfair practice, and how will companies be clearly informed of these developments? Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of our Belgian workers in another EU country. They too would be subject to this new provision, and they should not be required to have a maximal or extensible reading of it, coupled with administrative or complementary measures which would ultimately prevent them from working in a foreign country. I believe that an open but firm dialogue must be initiated with the European countries where they are most present today. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u39	My questions are somewhat different, but they follow the same theme, namely the new Posting of Workers Directive and its application on the ground. We want to exclude unfair competition from the abuse of posting structures as much as possible. However, Bonafide entrepreneurs from their own countries do not want to hinder them from operating abroad in a correct way. My questions are mainly about getting the right information about the wages to be applied. If there are companies operating in several Member States in our country, it is not clear what equal pay for equal work means. Do you have any idea how other Member States will provide the necessary information once the Directive applies? We currently have the website www.minimumloon.be in Belgium. However, it is not really user-friendly and is available only in Dutch and French. This could be a problem for other countries. Will steps be taken to rebuild, translate and provide additional information on this website? What steps are other Member States taking to ensure that, when workers are posted from, for example, Belgium, there is transparent information about the wage conditions in force in that country in different sectors and for different types of jobs? Are there any agreements with the European Commission to monitor this? My question is mainly about getting the right information about wages in a particular sector throughout the European Union. It is certainly not self-evident to map this, but it is important that entrepreneurs who are in good faith have correct information and do not get into trouble afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lachaert and Mr Clarinval, I shall first answer Mr Clarinval's first question on accommodation, transport and food allowances. I can tell you that, through the amending directive, these will be included in the concept of remuneration. Under Article 3(1)(i), the Member States on whose territory the posting takes place shall apply their rules providing for allowances or reimbursement of expenditure in order to cover the costs of travel, accommodation and food for posted workers when they have to travel to or from their usual place of work in that Member State, or when they are temporarily sent by their employer from that usual place of work to another place of work. As regards travel in Belgium, the rules on accommodation, transport and food allowances may be applied in the same way for national workers and posted workers. With regard to the second question on the deletion of the European Commission's original proposal on subcontracting, it should be clarified that this deletion is part of the political agreement reached in the Council. However, I can point out that subcontractors must also meet Belgian wage and working conditions in the same way as other posted workers. In this respect, there is therefore no difference in treatment between contractors and subcontractors. With regard to the third question on the average duration of the posting, we have received the following information from the RSZ. With regard to workers subject to Belgian social security who have been posted in another Member State or several Member States, the average durations of the A1s for 2017 are detailed as follows. Posting in an EU Member State: 42 days. Simultaneous stay in different Member States: 281 days. For workers who come to work temporarily in Belgium and remain subject to social security in another Member State: de gemiddelde duur van alle Limosa-meldingen in 2017 was 157 dagen. As regards the question of the measures taken in the fight against false posting and mailbox companies, I can refer to the measure already discussed to prevent abuse of posting in Directive 2014/67, the so-called Enforcement Directive. This Directive was transposed into Belgian law by the Law of 11 December 2016 laying down provisions on the posting of workers. The amending Directive will complement this by adopting the principle that if, following an overall assessment by a Member State on the basis of the Enforcement Directive, it is established that an undertaking wrongly or fraudulently gives the impression that the situation of an employee falls within the scope of the Posting of Workers Directive, that Member State shall ensure that applicable legislation and practices apply to the worker. In addition, additional measures were included in the draft regulation, the amendment of the regulation 883/2004 on social security, in the fight against bus companies. As far as the European Labour Authority is concerned, I can inform you that on 13 March the European Commission adopted a proposal on the establishment of a European Labour Authority which sets out the tasks of this authority. It is expected to be implemented by 2019 and fully operational by 2023 at the latest. However, it should be ensured that it does not have binding or alternative powers to national supervisory authorities. Belgium supports the rapid establishment of this Authority. In reply to the sixth question on Posting of Workers' Certificates on Social Security A1, I can state that this subject is also dealt with in the draft amending Regulation 883. This is, of course, the responsibility of the Minister for Social Affairs, Mrs De Block. As regards the advisability of aligning the status of multi-employers with that of posted workers, it seems to me that this concerns posting in the field of social security and not posting in labour law. I therefore invite you to contact my colleague Mrs De Block in this regard. As far as the eighth question is concerned, on the progress of the road transport dossier, I can tell you that no agreement was reached at the June Council. Negotiations will continue under the Austrian Presidency, which has recently sent a new proposal to the Member States. I come to the ninth question. As far as my overall assessment of the revision of the directive is concerned, I believe that it will strengthen the overall application of Belgian working conditions as regards wages and in the case of long-term posting. The information for posting companies will mainly be provided by the website of the Federal Public Service Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, as the only official national website, as set out in the Enforcement Directive. In addition, the Belgian Liaison Office and the General Supervisory Board of the Social Laws also provide information. With regard to the observation of the situation of Belgian workers employed in another country of the European Union, it goes without saying that the protection of these workers posted from Belgium is a particularly important subject for me, as for you, I understand. However, it must be borne in mind that within the limits set out by European Union law, each Member State is free to choose how and by what means to transpose European directives into national law. In this context, I would like to point out that the measures that Member States are allowed to impose are regulated in Article 9 of the Enforcement Directive. Where transposition is not in conformity, the Commission may take action against it. For example, we have recently contacted my French colleague, Minister Penicaud, on the basis of complaints from Belgian companies, with the result that French legislation has been amended. I thanked her for that. I come to Mr Lachaert's questions. The amendment of the Posting of Workers Directive was published very recently. At present, we have no idea how other countries will implement this new directive and what measures they are considering in this respect. We are, of course, following up on that. Each EU country must appoint a national liaison office responsible for providing information on the arrangements for posting the country in question. The European Commission's portal provides the contact details of all official European Union national liaison offices. To your second question, Mr Lachaert, I can answer that there are several channels on which a foreign company can obtain the necessary information regarding a posting to Belgium. First of all, there is the website of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. This website shall contain information relating to the posting and shall be updated and updated on a permanent basis. In addition, this website also contains concrete information on minimum wages and conditions of employment in the 10 Joint Committees most affected by posting. This information will be merged by joint committee into a clearly structured and user-friendly sheet that will be kept constantly up-to-date. In addition, these sheets can be obtained not only in Dutch and French, but also in English. Secondly, for more information, please visit the website www.minimumwonen.be. The information on minimum wages and conditions of employment of all joint committees and sub-committees can be found here. Finally, it is always possible to contact the Labour Inspectorate for supplementary questions relating to the minimum wages applied in Belgium. We will evaluate these information channels in the light of the transposition of the new directive into Belgian law. This process of transposition has already been started in cooperation with the administration. We will follow this process very closely to ensure the timely transposition of the directive into Belgian law. Mr Lachaert, if there are any further specific questions on communication, I would always like to ask them so that we can inform everyone correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for this very comprehensive answer that I will read out in detail. I agree with you that the European Labour Authority should have more binding power. It's still a good step forward. I will also turn to Minister De Block, but I broadly agree with your analysis of this step in the right direction. That's good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer. You have also given your vision of the transposition into Belgian law. The website of the FOD WASO is a good site, which in itself is kept quite up-to-date and in which a lot can be found in a clear way. Together with the website minimum wages.be and with what you plan to do here, I am not concerned about companies coming to Belgium to work with staff. They will be able to retrieve the information. However, my great concern is to know whether employers who are in good faith but sometimes have to send someone to another country for very short assignments, will receive information from those other countries in an equally transparent manner on the precise applicable provisions, so as not to have incidents with premiums that would not have been paid for a limited period of time. In this respect, it will really have to be followed up. The principle of equal pay for equal work is a very nice principle. However, with all the complexity of labour law and all the Member States involved, it is not always easy to obtain transparent information. There are liaison offices, but we will have to make sure that it remains sustainable for companies to find all information abroad. I appreciate your effort. You also indicate that, in case of problems, companies can also contact your services. We will have to follow up together on how this is done in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u43	In order to free colleagues who have only one question, I propose to move on immediately to the remaining questions of MM. Clarinval, Lachaert and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u44	Mr President, my question is quite technical, which sometimes leads to useful answers on the ground. Minister, it is my responsibility that the Social Law Inspectorate is currently questioning the time-of-work legislation applied to certain public authorities, particularly those responsible for the management of early childhood care. This position is justified by the law on working hours in the public and private sector of 15 July 1964, which states that: "By establishments providing health care for prophylaxis and hygiene, crèches and nurseries should be included." In summary and for the record, article 1512/6 of the Code of Local Democracy provides: "Whatever their object, project associations, intercommunals carry out public service tasks and, as such, are legal persons under public law. They are not commercial in nature." The concrete reality of the facts fully supports this statement. In connection with this questionable position of the Inspectorate, it should be pointed out that the points of analysis which led to such a merger pose many difficulties, in particular the following: the principle for the public sector is the application of the Act of 14 December 2000. The exception for institutions providing health care for prophylaxis and hygiene must be interpreted strictly; the reference to the preparatory work of the 1964 Act is not relevant. The design of a crèche in 1964 was completely outdated. The crèches were at the time assimilated to nurseries, whereas today the educational and evolutionary aspect is highlighted. The host communities must have an educational project, controls are put in place by the ONE. There is immediate continuity between the project of the crèche and that of the school in the reception class and then in kindergarten; historically, the crèches were, under an explicit legal provision, covered by the Joint Convention 305, which was competent for health. When the latter broke out into three separate Joint Committees (JCs), discussions took place on the division of responsibilities for each of the new JCs: the Joint Commission on Health Institutions and Services (CP 330), CP 331 and CP 332. The Royal Decree of 9 March 2003 determining the scope of application of CP 330 expressly states in the first place: "the establishments and services providing health care, prophylaxis or hygiene". Examples are then mentioned, which do not include crèches. These have been included in CP 332, which does not include health care, prophylaxis or hygiene facilities and services within its scope. This shows a fortiori that crèches are no longer considered by the State – and for the sake of the related educational and social project – as "the institutions and services providing health care, prophylaxis or hygiene". It therefore seems wrong that, at present, and notwithstanding the factual reality of nurseries and reception facilities, the inspection services interpret the concept of "health care, prophylaxis or hygiene facilities and services" as also aimed at establishments run by public authorities and providing a reception environment with an educational project for children between 2 months and 3 years of age. Minister, what is your position on the above? Do you support the position that crèches are covered by the concept of "institutions and services providing health care, prophylaxis or hygiene" referred to in Article 3(1) of the Labour Act of 16 March 1971? If so, should we not rewrite the scope of the Joint Committee Conventions 330, 331 and 332, or should we create a flagrant inconsistency? Furthermore, if you retain this interpretation of the law, what is meant by an institution? What about an intercommunal which manages crèches, out-of-school services, health-care services with – given the public mission – a certain mobility of workers? Minister, I would be grateful if you would excuse me for asking you a rather long and sharp question, but it was necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a technical question. Public employers and their workers are, for the most part, excluded from the scope of most of the provisions of the Act of 16 March 1971 on working time and rest. The Labour Act excludes persons employed by the State, the provinces, municipalities, public institutions dependent on it, and public interest bodies, unless they are occupied by establishments engaged in an industrial or commercial activity or by establishments providing health care, prophylaxis or hygiene. Public-sector institutions providing health care, prophylaxis or hygiene are therefore subject to the provisions of the Labour Act concerning Sunday rest, working hours, night work, working hours, rest intervals and laying. These provisions apply both to their workers employed under contract of employment and permanently appointed. What does the legislator mean by institutions providing health care, prophylaxis or hygiene? Since the current text does not answer this question and is a coordination of several earlier texts, we should refer to the Act of 15 July 1964 on working hours in the public and private sectors of the national economy, the scope of which already referred to these establishments. The explanatory statement of the bill states that "institutions with health care, prophylaxis or hygiene shall not only cover hospitals, clinics and polyclinics, medical offices, medical and surgical institutes, but also maternity hospitals, nurseries, nurseries, retirement homes, etc." First of all, I would like to draw your attention to point b of your question to the fact that both nurseries and nurseries are mentioned separately in the preceding list. As for parallelism with the evolution of the fields of competence of the Joint Committees (JCs), he called for the following comments: initially, CP 305's fields of competence included a general definition and a list of examples, including approved crèches. In 2003, the Court of Cassation found that an unapproved crèche was also within the scope of CP 305 on the basis of the general definition. When CP 330, 331, 332 were established, the activities of the former CP 305 were shared among these three CPs. The areas of jurisdiction were drafted as follows: CPs 331 and 332 do not contain a general definition but an exhaustive list of establishments and services. CP 333 contains a general definition and a list of examples but has residual jurisdiction. In conclusion, therefore, there is no inconsistency between the areas of competence of these three CPs. The fact that CPs 331 and 332 do not have a general definition does not mean that institutions and services within their fields of competence are not health facilities and services, as demonstrated by the training of exclusion from the scope of competence of CP 330. I hope that your technical questions are now resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u46	I take note of the Minister's response. This is very comprehensive, but there is a risk of problems for some intercommunals. I am thinking in particular of an intercommunal which would have several activities. In the province of Namur, for example, an intercommunal operates crèches, as well as out-of-school services, and even day-care centres. The question therefore arises as to whether this multi-occupational establishment is considered in the same way? A worker who should move from one service to another would risk having a different status. That would not fail to pose some problems on the ground. In any case, I take note of the answer, which is very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u47	Thank you, Mr President, for adjusting the order of questions. My question concerns a press release from September, in which there is a discussion between the government, the Prime Minister and yourself, on the one hand, and the Group of Ten, on the other. At first, I thought that the work deal was on the agenda for this consultation, of which parts are already in progress, as we read in the newspaper today, but I was somewhat surprised to see the issue of the right to strike on the agenda. At the beginning of this legislative term, the right to strike was a difficult issue, including in Parliament, and we organised various hearings on it. In the meantime, social peace has returned somewhat and this issue is no longer so high on the agenda. The reason for the discussion was the death in 2015 of a Danish woman in a Liège hospital by a roadblock of the FGTB. That was the reason for a debate in Parliament on a revision of the gentlemen's agreement, on which the social partners never agreed. I had originally addressed my question to the Prime Minister, who had communicated about it, but I understand that you will answer my questions. Minister, what is the precise reason for the Prime Minister to ask the social partners again to make new agreements on the right to strike? Do you have any indications that the social partners will actually address this question and, if so, what timing? A possible solution is to draw up a list of actions that are and are not permitted. Will the social partners work on such a proposal? Do you have any indication that the social partners will reach an agreement in the near future? If not, does the government itself plan an initiative and, if so, in what sense? I also have a question about the work deal itself, although this question may be a little less topical. The employment deal contains a large number of positive and important measures to increase the level of effectiveness. Minister, what were the main conclusions of the consultation on the employment deal? What are the consequences of this consultation on the labour deal? Was there any specific mention of seniority in wage formation during that consultation? What is the view of the social partners on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u48	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, it is true that the issue of the gentlemen's agreement was also discussed during this consultation. In doing so, the Prime Minister handed over a letter asking the Group of Ten to take back that file, which I call a cold case, and to report on it in the course of September. As far as I know, we have not yet received a response, but the question has therefore been put very clearly to take back the right to strike and the gentlemen's agreement, in order to hopefully achieve a positive result this time. The social partners have been briefed on the intentions and points on which the federal government intends to pursue its work. The Group of Ten confirmed that this would be followed in its lap. I noticed you were already responding to the labor deal. We had some trains leave yesterday that will be discussed in an IKW tomorrow. I hope we can decide on this next week. You are right that it is not all trains and that a number of trains still have to be loaded. As you know, we have asked the Central Council for Business to provide further information on the question of seniority. Once this information is in our hands, hopefully this train can leave as well. We have also asked the sectors to provide more information. Acerta investigated this and came up with interesting elements. The most important and delicate train, in order to maintain the same imagery, is the degressivity of unemployment benefits. We are committed to moving to the government in November with a number of scenarios. We will honour that commitment. I have also understood, if I have read the newspaper correctly, that you are positive about the trains that have already left but that you expect more trains. You will hopefully be served at your beck and call when we complete this in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u49	The reason for my question was the raising of the gentlemen's agreement and the right to strike. I was a little surprised about that. It is therefore a cold case, and I suspect that it will remain a cold case, since it concerns a particularly delicate issue on which the social partners do not agree. It is also particularly delicate to put this into a framework. We will see how it evolves, whether something comes out of it, against my expectations, and what we will have to do with it. There are royal decrees ready, I see, which work out different points of the labor deal. In that respect, I am very pleased. After all, there are important activating measures, which will come into the IKW tomorrow and perhaps with not too much discussion, I suspect, the station will be able to leave as a train. The others are indeed more delicate, but I understand that there has not been any specific immediate soot thrown into the food in response to the discussions that have taken place. Although themes such as degressivity and seniority are very sensitive, we know that. We are trying to find a balanced story there by the end of the year, our intended timing, which we have and hope to keep to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u50	Minister, recently Anglo-Saxon companies have decided to protect themselves against sexual scandals by proposing, as soon as a new staff member is hired, the signing of a love contract in which the employees undertake to reveal their relationship or future union with another staff member. It is estimated that 15% of marriages were born from an employment relationship. An internal note calling for full transparency on intimate relationships between colleagues or superiors would also circulate in some companies. Indeed, the potential drifts associated with relationships between colleagues or with a superior are numerous: conflicts of interest, favouritism, relations of domination... These relationships can harm the company as well as its employees. While the purpose of signing these love contracts is therefore to protect employees and the company, in the wake of the MeToo movement, which has freed women's voices about the attitudes, remarks and sexist gestures they receive on a daily basis, this practice still raises questions, particularly with regard to privacy. Does the company have the right to interfere in the personal lives of its employees? Moreover, the notion of a couple itself is very difficult to define. It is often complicated to know when two people become a couple. Therefore, do employees have to declare the simple kiss or appointment? It therefore seems rather complicated for employees to know when to notify their hierarchy of their love relationship. Finally, the signing of these contracts may be detrimental in the event of abuse, harassment or relationships of domination in the couple. It will therefore be very difficult for a potential victim to justify these situations with a colleague once the love contract has been signed. Minister, what do you think of this practice of forcing new employees to sign a love contract? Do you not find these contracts to be privacy-problems? What about the protection of those who claim to be victims of abuse? Could the introduction of love contracts be possible at home? How are relations between colleagues defined? Are Belgian companies already using this practice? What about public enterprises? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, to our knowledge, this type of love contracts are not used by companies in Belgium. We know that as a result of the various scandals that have shook NGOs in particular in recent times, charters of good conduct have been drawn up. It would appear that using love contracts or inserting such a clause in the employment contract could affect the worker's privacy. If the relationship between the two workers does not affect the performance of the contract of employment, there is no reason why the employer must be kept informed of the relationship. As a guide, I would remind you of article 6 of the Labour Contracts Act of 3 July 1978, which provides that "any stipulation contrary to the provisions of the Act and its implementing orders shall be null and void provided that it is intended to restrict the rights of workers or to aggravate their obligations." Finally, as regards aspects relating to sexual harassment at work, the worker is protected by the legislation on well-being at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u52	Thank you for your answers, Minister. Here I am reassured. This will not happen in our country. Like you, I pay particular attention to the privacy of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u53	Mr President, more than a year ago, in the wake of the announcement of collective redundancies at Caterpillar, you sent a letter to the Group of Ten to investigate the extent to which collective redundancies and restructuring can be improved. You yourself put forward a number of proposals for consideration. There were positive elements in this, such as making a social plan compulsory and reporting the intention of the management to the subcontractors. Furthermore, the social plan should also apply to temporary and temporary workers present at the time of the announcement. I am much more sceptical about the new role you want to assign to the social mediator. All in all, it does not remain ambitious. Indeed, how seriously do companies deal with alternatives put forward by the workers' organisations, given that, according to an analysis based on the figures of the FOD WASO, there is hardly any difference between the number of redundancies announced in the Memorandum of Understanding and the final effective redundancies? Moreover, the figures show that the median duration of the information and consultation procedure is certainly not long, and all the more so supports my objection to your proposal on the role of the social mediator. It is clear that a major restructuring also has a huge impact on the subcontractors or subcontractors of the company in restructuring. To give an example that I personally experienced, 1 389 were fired from Ford Genk's subcontractors. Mr President, what progress has been made on the examination of your request to the Group of Ten? In the absence of substantial proposals, will you take your own initiative? How do you view the idea of giving employees' organisations real investigative powers by enabling them to use an expertise agency paid by the company? What do you think about the undertaking's obligation to take the proposed alternatives seriously and to justify their rejection? Will you also take measures to achieve a more forward-looking policy which, for example, preventively examines the impact of the introduction of new technologies and reports on subcontracting? What is your attitude towards making the social plan applicable to employees of almost entirely dependent subcontractors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u54	Minister, on 26 June 2018, we were able to hear from the press that the trade unions and employers' organisations met on that day on the revision of the Renault Act. During these consultations, the unions insisted that the favourable arrangement should also apply to suppliers' employees. In the case of collective redundancies, employers wanted a larger proportion of the redundancy allowance to go to a new job. In the past, you focused on five areas of reform, which you delivered to the social partners. Firstly, workers who, after the restructuring, take steps in a new job before the social plan is laid down should be able to benefit from that plan. Secondly, a social plan after restructuring must be legally compulsory. Thirdly, companies in restructuring must communicate the impact of the reorganisation on subcontractors and suppliers when announcing the decision. Fourthly, public authorities and Parliament need much better information. Fifth and finally, the social mediators have to play a role in the discussions between trade unions and management. You stated that you wished to land before the end of the year and that you had already instructed your administration to draw up a bill on this matter. Minister, what is the outcome of the consultation between the social partners on the reform of the Renault Act? In the absence of an agreement between the social partners, when will you come to Parliament with the draft bill that has been announced, and what is the scope of that bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u55	I also have a very general question about this. A few months after your announcement last June that the Group of Ten was going to move forward with the reform of the Renault law, where are we?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u56	Unfortunately, there have been some major restructurings; Mrs Kitir has referred to them. I hope we will not get many more, but I find it difficult to predict them, let alone stop them. Following the wave of restructuring in 2016 and the debate on this in the competent committee of the Chamber, at the end of September 2016, I submitted a number of possibilities for adapting and refining the regulations and the collective redundancies procedure to the Group of Ten. In the interprofessional agreement 2017-2018, the government was asked for the necessary time to discuss the whole issue of restructuring in depth in the National Labour Council. These discussions between the social partners are still ongoing. The social partners intend to conclude the discussion shortly. During a personal interview, I urged the Group of Ten to give an opinion on this matter fairly quickly, because every time we restructure, we come to the question of why the legislation in this area has not yet been amended. I can also tell you that I have been through these questions a number of times. I hope I can get on with that advice pretty soon, if it gets there. Hopefully a major restructuring will be a while away. I assume that's what you're hoping for with me. If we are faced with this, I hope that we will be able to deal with things differently. The Group of Ten says that he needs some time and will then come up with an opinion. Should we wait or continue? For me, there must be an end to waiting. In any case, the Group of Ten has promised that it will present its opinion fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're right. We cannot stop closures and can only hope that such closures will not be repeated. What is in our hands, however, is the adaptation of the Renault Act. This will enable us to take preventive action and ensure that the protection of workers is already a little more robust than is the case today. I understand from your reply that you will soon be expecting an opinion. I hope you will involve Parliament in this. There have been several hearings in the Chamber on the subject and there have been several exchanges of views. I therefore hope that, when you have received the opinion, you will return to the Chamber so that we can discuss this together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u58	Mr. Secretary, you announced that the consultation was under way. Unfortunately, the advice is still not available. You must continue to urge the social partners to take that advice and, if necessary, take an initiative to resolve the thorny problem as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u59	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hope that there will be concrete before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u60	Minister, we are all making a great deal of effort to achieve modal shift. This also happens in the port: we try to move as much traffic as possible from incoming goods to inland waterways. Of course, we are on the track, but inland waterway transport is also a very important player that we need. After all, the traffic jams around Antwerp are well known and we must, of course, avoid them getting longer and longer. However, there is a problem there. In order to transfer, for example, a car or building materials from the quay to a inland waterway ship, the Major Act requires companies to use the expensive port labour, but if that transfer is made to a truck, then it should not. That seems a little weird, doesn't it? Both economically and ecologically IWT should be favoured, given the current situation on our roads. A solution could be to ensure that inland waterway transport, possibly limited to Class 2, is treated in the same way as truck transport. What is your view on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u61	Mr Klaps, of course I share the concern to give inland waterway transport a greater role in resolving the mobility issue, especially as regards the important infrastructure works in Antwerp, because it can reduce the pressure on road infrastructure. It is important to stress that it is not right that in seaports, for the transhipment of goods on an inland waterway vessel and for the transhipment of goods on a lorry, no authorised port workers should be used. In the port areas, port workers must be used for both movements, but you know that we are trying to make progress. For that aspect there is therefore no difference in costs between transport to the hinterland in an inland waterway or with a truck. In both cases, loading and unloading of an inland waterway vessel or truck in the hinterland must not be carried out by port workers. So there is no cost difference for that aspect there too. I should also like to point out in this connection that in the port of Ghent, after an in-depth safety investigation, staffing in the handling of an inland waterway vessel could be made more flexible. This was laid down in the collective agreement of 4 February 2016. An important determination of labour costs is that of labour costs for inland waterway vessels' own personnel. Compared to neighbouring countries, this is a cost disadvantage that exceeds 20%. In order to provide a solution to this problem, at the joint request of the social partners, we proposed to the government to consider system work as shift work for the application of the BV, not the breakdown. System navigation is a specific shift system, in which two crews each work for a longer period and relieve each other, with working days of ten hours a day and two hours a break. A hundred employees work in this system. Considering this activity as shiftwork would be a cost benefit of around EUR 6 000. The sector's expectations are that this will allow for a strong growth of system shipping and a re-flagging of activities lost to neighbouring countries in recent years. The gross cost to the public authorities of this measure would be EUR 800 000, while the re-flagging of 100 employees, which the sector considers could result from, would almost fully finance this reduction. We have put this measure on the table when drawing up the employment deal. The government has taken that up. My good colleague in the finance department is now fully transposing this into legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. You forgot the cost of the long traffic jams, with a very heavy economic cost. Any measure we can take to reduce or avoid these traffic jams will save our economy enormously. I support every step in this direction, but I will examine whether we cannot take a step further in the direction you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u63	For many years now, Minister, you have been proposing a specific statute for the job-seekers mentioned. Their loss of entitlement to benefits is usually considered. The Royal Decree of 7 January 2018 allowed you to extend that right until the end of 2019. The condition is that the persons concerned are included in an adapted route recognised or organised by a regional employment service. Both from the research carried out by Professor Nicaise of HIVA and from your answer to my written question No. However, 2111 of 15 March 2018 shows that many of them still fall through the loopholes of the network because those services do not offer everyone a journey or because there is still no solution after the end of that journey. Often they are then written off as unattractive by the service. Recently, the Round Table on Labour Services raised the alarm about another problem facing these people, in particular the degressivity of unemployment benefits, which you will be intertwined with from next year on. Although the current legislation does not apply the degressivity for those recognised by the RVA as 33% disabled, not the whole group of extremely vulnerable jobseekers with little or no prospect in the normal economic circuit has such medical recognition. Your answer to the above-mentioned written question also shows that the number of job seekers with an MMPP problem is a large number of job seekers with an acknowledgement of 33% of incapacity for work. On 1 March 2018, there was an agreement in the media within the IMC on a specific statute and the alignment of the target group. In the meantime, however, we have not heard anything about this. With the announced tightening of degressivity, the need for a structural solution becomes all the more pertinent. Minister, what is the status of jobseekers with limited capacity for work? Will, pending this, not only the unemployed with a 33 per cent recognition of incapacity for work, but also the unemployed who are regarded by a competent regional service as jobseekers with acute or chronic medical, mental, mental or psychiatric problems or who are described by such a service as unattractive be exempted from the degressivity of their benefits?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u64	Mrs Kitir, I have great respect for workers who, despite a specific problem, want to actively contribute to society and remain available for the labour market. I have received these people several times in my cabinet and therefore attach great importance to the MMPP problem and to the job seekers with a permanent disability of at least 33%. You know that it was already agreed in the 2017 Summer Agreement that a structural solution would be sought for this group of unemployed by 1 January 2020. At the beginning of this year, a working group was set up within the IMC, consisting of representatives of the Cabinets of the various Ministers of Work and of the various administrations and mediation services. This working group has met several times and has prepared a consensus paper to be presented at the next IMC. That's very good news, but wait a little while before selling the bear's skin. The note describes the new statute, the conditions for access and the benefits that can be granted to this group of people. The new statute is based on an international scientific basis, in particular the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). In order to gain access to this new statute, the job seeker concerned will be evaluated by the mediation service on the basis of those ICF criteria. The mediation services provide a step-by-step guidance process. The Staff Regulations may give entitlement to an extended integration allowance if the integration allowance is exhausted, if the person concerned obtains the status of non-attribubility on the basis of the ICF criteria and if the person concerned cooperates positively on the specific mediation journey. We will hopefully be able to communicate fairly quickly with Mr Jeholet about the realization of this new statute, but I have become more cautious over the years. A great deal of work has been done and we are almost there, with all the ministers involved. I think it is a commendable group of people who deserve to pay extra attention to them and to solve this structuralally for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that the note proposing a new statute is almost ready. This means that we will soon be able to hear more about this. On the basis of that final note, I will pass on my comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u66	Minister, our economy is becoming increasingly digitized. According to an OECD study, 600,000 jobs are threatened with extinction. A recent ING study presents similar conclusions. In general, ING's study shows that "the opposite evolution between the likelihood of technology replacing humans and the growth of workplaces is confirmed". In other words, there is a negative link between job growth and the likelihood of automation. In the face of this reality, one of the best ways to adapt to changes in the labour market is of course training. At the same time, innovative public policies, such as a collective reduction in working time, are also needed. In 2016, about the impact of digitalisation on employment, you mentioned the creation of a "reorientation fund" to better train people in your opinion. Recently, it was the G10 that set out on an eight-pronged joint statement to better understand digitalization. In our last discussions in committee you reminded us that working groups are in place to study the impact of the collaborative economy and digitalisation on employment. Can you tell us what their latest progress is? Is your project to create a fund still under consideration? Can you tell us more about this? What objectives do you want to achieve with such a structure and how will it be funded? Can you give us details of the axes defined by the social partners in the G10 to better understand digitalisation? Are you going to take some action in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the federal employment deal, it has been agreed that we will question the sectors on the impact of digitalisation on specific functions. Sectors should not only indicate which jobs are likely to change, but also those that may disappear. They are also asked to make concrete proposals to remedy this situation, using their sectoral funds. In the meantime, responses were received from CP 136-222, 129-221, 327.01 and 116-207. We will review sector responses and continue monitoring. The social partners have defined the following axes: - an education and training system that focuses on the skills of the future, in order to provide young people with additional opportunities and opportunities for the future; - the mobilization of the talent of all jobseekers with a view to reorientation and reintegration based on the skills of the job-seeker; - the development of lifelong learning as a key strategy investing in sustainable and forward-looking skills and attitudes, which prepares businesses, workers and jobseekers for change and transition; - the extension of opportunities by reducing thresholds, in particular through integration and experimentation routes that promote employment, occupational mobility, reintegration and inclusion; - a transition hub in which public and private actors join forces to facilitate and support the reorientation and transition of workers beyond sectors and occupations; - forward-looking consultation, leading to and anticipating change, providing adequate solutions in a timely manner, developing innovative projects and creating space for appropriate experiments and solutions, in a spirit of collaboration; - a level playing field that enables all employers, principals and workers to fight on equal terms and that stimulates growth, employment, entrepreneurship and social security in a sustainable manner. The priorities defined by the social partners are mainly the responsibility of the Regions and the Communities and social dialogue. However, the federal government has already made progress in this area. Indeed, in April 2015, my colleague the Minister of Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post presented the "Digital Belgium" action plan, to which I would like to join. The plan makes recommendations, including recommendations on infrastructure and digital skills. In addition, the law on feasible and manageable work includes an average of 5 days of training per year per full-time equivalent, in order to encourage the training of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for this information on a particularly important topic, and so I intend to re-examine you on a regular basis to verify its progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u69	Mr President, Minister, this question is about the foreign demand of the ABVV for the 32 hours week at the future interprofessional consultation. This question was already transmitted to the competent services on 7 June. The ABVV wants the labour market to evolve from a 38-hour working week to a 32-hour working week while maintaining full pay, thus facilitating the reconciliation of work and family life and keeping everyone on the job. The preference is for a four-day week. The ABVV will put the proposal on the table at this autumn's interprofessional consultation, probably about now. Does the requirement of the ABVV not mean that wage costs, whose handicap was largely eliminated by this government vis-à-vis neighbouring countries, will increase significantly again? Some sources speak of an increase of almost 19 % Does this not make our labour market particularly unattractive to existing and new entrepreneurs? Shouldn't we increase our effectiveness rate instead of reducing it, as included in the ABVV requirement? With this absurd requirement, does the ADVV not endanger the interprofessional consultation in this way in advance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u70	Mr President, Mr Van der Donkt, since labour costs are determined by comparing the cost of an hour's work with neighbouring countries, this handicap will indeed increase if the Belgian labour market suddenly moved to a 32-hour working week while maintaining wages. If the same wage is paid for 32 hours of work instead of 38 hours, the hourly wage rises mathematically by 18.75 %. The real cost to companies remains the same initially, as maintaining wages does not imply an increase in wages, but the reduction in working hours will mean that additional staff will have to be recruited in many companies, which will, of course, lead to an increase in total labour costs. The size of the cost increase is a matter of supply and demand, but of course such a linear measure will suddenly make the Belgian labour market much more unattractive for existing and new entrepreneurs. The impact on the level of activity or employment and on the proportion of people working at work is obviously difficult to predict on the basis of the measures proposed by the ABVV. When people work less in one segment of the labour market, this does not necessarily mean that people have more opportunities elsewhere. In addition, companies will inevitably proceed to further automation. Collectively less work can lead to job losses here and there, but will also increase the tension on the labour market, with possible additional pressures on wages. Even the most positive studies on a collective reduction in working hours indicate that only under strict conditions will a positive effect on employment occur. I quote: 'A redistribution of available labour may be limited in the case of a reduction in working time. Despite the existence of the lump of labor failure, empirical studies show that a properly introduced reduction in working time leads to more employment. A shortened working week is therefore more a tool that leads to a better distribution of jobs than a panacea to combat unemployment." This is a quote from the work "The effect of working hours on the productivity of Flemish companies" from 2017 by Anneleen Cardinael. In short, and as always, I express myself with caution and diplomacy, I believe that better ways can be found to improve the balance between work and private life, such as the measures previously taken by the current government. For collective bargaining, it is normal that different insights are discussed in advance and that different requirements are put on the table. Like you, I have sufficient confidence and I expect the partners to reach a good and new interprofessional agreement that will further strengthen the progress we have made in recent years, both in terms of employment and labour costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u71	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer to which I have little or nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u72	Mr Minister, this is a bit of a technical question about working conditions for employment in port, in particular the provision of services. A letter was sent to the port workers in Antwerp by the VDAB stating that as of 1 January 2018 all port workers of the early shift recruitment session 3... who "want to make use of the right to unemployment benefit free of control after absence, can only do so if they make themselves available at the next recruitment session in their own category/shift." As an example, it was cited: "You take leave on Monday. If you wish to take advantage of unemployment on Tuesday, you will be available on Tuesday in Digicot for recruitment with performance date Wednesday." Cepa's website initially contained the following readings. In the meantime, that has been changed as a result of an earlier question from me. I quote: "Imagine that as a port worker of the third recruitment, you cannot be present at the session by holiday. Then you're entitled to unemployment benefit the next day. You will then contact the VDAB to register your unemployment. Digicot doesn't automatically pass this on, but of course you can always make yourself available if you want. It's up to you!" That text is slightly different from what used to be. For this reason, I believe that there is a change in working conditions. In the light of this, I would have liked to have received an answer to the following questions, Minister. Is it true that the scheme introduced by the VDAB is illegal, as we say, because the rules in force concerning the right to an unemployment allowance and also the Codex of port workers do not impose such a scheme? In other words, is there a legal basis for imposing the new regime? Secondly, is it not clear from the Cepa communication that Cepa does not impose any requirement on port workers to make themselves available at the next recruitment session at their own category shift and the port organisation thus allows the port worker to make himself available or not? Thirdly, does the port worker not have the right to freely fill in the day after a day with entitlement to unemployment benefit? Can he not, as in the above example, take up a day's time loan on Wednesday? Fourthly, why was the rule introduced from 1 January 2018 and was it not previously applicable? On what basis was the rule introduced? Fifthly, does the VDAB have the power to issue such a regulation? Since the rules on the right to unemployment benefit are still determined by the federal level, does the issuing of the above-mentioned scheme not fall within the competence of the RVA? Finally, is it true that the text on the Cepa website has been modified since the submission of a previous question? I have already been able to establish that, and perhaps you have been able to check it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u73	You will receive a technical answer to your technical question. For the sake of understanding, I would first like to put the situation that you are questioning. The port worker who normally belongs to the morning shift must make himself available for work in the recruitment of the day before. However, if that port worker takes leave on that day, he must not register on that day and cannot therefore be recruited for the day following the day of leave. For the day following the day of leave, it is accepted that he is entitled to unemployment benefit, even if he has not made himself available for work on that day and does not take leave on that day. You can have my written preparation in a moment and then you can read it again. However, in order to obtain the exemption for the day following the day of leave, it was necessary for him to register physically in the recruitment room on that day. The problem that has arisen today is due to the introduction since 18 April 2017 of a system of electronic recruitment and the accompanying administrative simplification of communication between the VDAB and the port worker, which has resulted in the removal of the obligation to make a physical notification. In this situation, for example, it is sufficient to inform the mediation service electronically about the day of leave to be refundable the day thereafter. Unfortunately, the RVA and the mediation service have found that the scheme has been abused. It appears that some port workers have discovered a system whereby, by taking leave on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, with the exhaustion of a minimum period of leave, they do not have to be available for a full week, while, since they are no longer required to sign up physically on Tuesdays and Thursdays, they can, for example, go on a journey. In order to stop such improper use, the mediation service has taken the initiative, after meetings with the RVA, the employers' organisation of the Port Company, Cepa, the common trade union front and the payout institutions, to reach a consensus to grant the exemption for the day following the day of leave only if the port worker makes himself available for the next recruitment on that day. The rule, however, is not absolute, because it has also been stated that there can be derogations from it in specific circumstances, to be specified by the port worker. I also understand that the scheme will not be applied until 1 February 2018 because it was notified late. Article 74 (3) of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulations lays down the arrangements for the reimbursement of the port worker in connection with the daily notification to the port worker's office. However, the rules applied in practice concerning the notification and exemption from notification of port workers are not detailed in that legislation and are largely based on practices recognised by all operators, specific to the sector. In this sense, it cannot be said that a new and reasonably sound approach, introduced as a result of a new situation, aimed at combating abuse, which is recognised by all parties that it should be avoided, would be unlawful. The method, which only applies in the case of individual leave days, is not available on Cepa's website. The scheme was introduced on 1 January 2018 and put into practice from 1 February 2018 to address the abuse identified after the start of electronic recruitment as of 18 April 2017. That form of abuse did not, or hardly did, occur with the physical notification in the past. It could not be predicted that certain port workers would in such a way scan the boundaries of the system. The scheme could only be introduced after sufficient abuses had been discovered and extensive consultations had taken place. Although the rules governing the determination of the right to unemployment benefit and its amount are still federal, the availability aspect for the labour market of workers has been the decision-making power of the Regions since the state reform. In its opinion of 5 December 1991, the Council of State already stated that the tasks performed by the VDAB in the recruitment rooms for port workers, including the issue of whether or not to issue an unemployment mark, should be regarded as employment and therefore as a regional issue. Even if the hypothesis whereby the decision-making power would have been exclusive to the RVA in this case is followed, it must be established that the procedure under Article 74 (3) of the RB of 25 November 1991 was endorsed by the RVA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic987x.u75	Question No 26083 by Mr. Van der Donckt is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos. 26730 and 26779 by Mr. Raskin are transformed into written questions. Mr. Van Peteghem being absent, his questions fall. Questions Nos 27318, 27320, 27321, 27322, 27324 and 27325 by Mr. Van der Donckt are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 27375 and 27378 by Mr Daerden are postponed and Question No 27377 by Mr Daerden is turned into a written question. This concludes our work.
