ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u1	Mr Minister, even though this question is a little older and I already have a new question in that regard, in particular about testing people, I am asking them today. Since 2011, it is almost impossible to achieve the sharper European emission standards without a soot filter. The filters stop the emissions of toxic particulates and soot produced by diesel cars, which cause hundreds of thousands of premature deaths in Europe every year. Most new diesel cars almost all have a soot filter. But sometimes the soot filters break, which can cause serious engine problems. If that is the case, the filter must be replaced; its price can be around EUR 2 000, which is a huge amount. There is a cheaper but illegal solution to this, namely to remove the soot filter. You can do that for 450 euros. The soot filter is then cut open. A filter like that looks like a porous stone. Afterwards everything is re-welded and the technician places the empty housing. Eventually, it still adjusts the software, so that the on-board computer does not give an alarm signal with regard to the lost soot filter. On the internet many garages offer this and they also mention that after that they pass the soot filter test without problems and are hit by the car inspection, even though the car is also checked at the bottom. That's because the soot measurement is outdated. According to the inspection, the car, without a soot filter, is completely fine. But the car is illegal and emits over 90% more soot and particulate matter. More and more diesel drivers are resorting to this illegal practice. Experts estimate that there are tens of thousands and possibly more than one hundred thousand diesel cars driving around without a soot filter in our country. The car inspectors indicate that the problem has existed for about ten years. Mr. Secretary, I have the following questions for you. I hope some of them are still relevant. Are you aware of the ongoing problem? How will you deal with this particularly serious problem? How will you deal with this in consultation with the Regions, which are responsible for the assessment centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u2	Mrs Detiège, I strongly condemn such practices, both of the owners of the cars that have the filter removed and of the garagists who are involved. People who have the soot filter removed are usually well aware of what they are doing and why they are doing it. They therefore deliberately use non-compliant wagons on the public road. The competence in this area is an exclusive regional competence. However, I will send a letter to my regional fellow Members, also in response to your question, condemning the practice and asking what actions they have already taken or will continue to take. As soon as I get an answer, I'll be happy to get it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am very curious about your colleague's reaction at the Flemish level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u4	You may also want to know the reactions of the other levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u5	I want to know them from the other levels, of course. Wasn't there more foefelding in Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u6	I will address my letter to all regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u7	I say that deliberately, of course, because a member of the N-VA is chairing the committee. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u8	I'll ask all the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u9	I'm almost in shock.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u10	Minister, the Stuvo Decree states that student provision must be made for financial services to students in the form of student loans, advances on student grants, pay-off plans and so on. The legislation on consumer credit now provides that these provisions are also subject to the provisions of this law. In order to respond to administrative plowing, enormous material and human effort will have to be made. The correspondence of the VLHORA (Flemish Colleges Council) shows that a delegation of the colleges now requests an exemption. The answer given to our Flemish colleagues to their question to Minister Crevits is: "In view of the nature of the social loans that colleges and universities can grant and the extensive checks that already take place on them" - among other things, by the Court of Auditors "it is a legitimate question that they should be exempted from the legal provisions. The competent federal minister has already written a letter on this matter to the FSMA and is examining what initiative should be taken to anchor this exemption in the legislation." I have the following questions for you, Minister. Have you decided which initiative should be taken to anchor this exemption in the law? When will the exemption be finally legally insured?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u11	Mrs Detiège, at my request, the FSMA analysed the issue of compliance with the provisions of Book VII of the Economic Law Code on the regulation of payment services and credit agreements by educational institutions offering credit agreements in the form of study funding. Our services have organised a consultation meeting with the FSMA and the representatives of the educational institutions. Since the activities of the educational institutions are regulated at regional level and are supervised by the decorators, I believe that the imposition of additional legal obligations, the compliance of which should then be monitored by the FPS Economy and the FSMA, is not justified given the specific relationship between educational institutions and their pupils. However, I am considering amending the Royal Decree of 23 October 2015 concerning social creditors and employers to clarify that Book VII of the Economic Law Code does not apply to credit agreements that take the form of study funding and are provided by an educational institution recognised as such by the competent Community. I have already submitted a draft to the Council for consumption in this respect. There were divided opinions on the possibility of exclusion. The draft was also submitted to the Council of State. The Council of State considers that the legal basis is insufficient to determine an exception by Royal Decree. I then asked the FSMA to develop a legal basis, with this amendment given the necessary legal basis. So I have already done a lot of work, unfortunately without being able to complete it. Since the Board of State believes that the KB has insufficient legal basis, I am working on a legal basis to resolve this issue hopefully in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for this comprehensive answer. I think it's a good thing you're doing this. I hope that we can find a solution within a rather limited period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u13	Mr President, Minister, I think I will be back in the summer, because this question is about a problem that occurred on 22 August. You may recall that on that date Swissmen at Brussels Airport stopped to raise the urgent staff shortage. It wasn't the first time, and I'm not afraid of the last time. This led to luggage handling in the hundred and fifteen thousand passengers had to wait for their suitcases. At the beginning of September there were a thousand pieces of luggage that had to be distributed. Passengers with questions were then referred to Swissport's telephone number, but that was not answered by a strike. Meanwhile, there was actually smell in the airport, caused by the luggage left behind. If the luggage did not reach the rightful owner, it would be destroyed. We received desperate requests for help from people who tried to get their luggage back, but who ran into all kinds of communication walls. In the long run, they had no idea who they should be addressing. At that time we contacted the airport ombudsdienst, but only the problems of noise were dealt with. This service is undoubtedly very useful, but unfortunately it was not possible to help us in the area of luggage. The FPS Passenger Rights Service was not reached by telephone due to a technical malfunction. Sending an e-mail was possible, but according to passengers who did so, success was not assured, because they did not receive an answer. I understand the frustration and impotence of travelers or businessmen who are trying to recover their luggage in vain. It is striking that travellers do not have an accessible central point of contact where solutions are considered with stakeholders. I believe that I have asked questions about this in the past. Again, I have the following questions for you. Do you see, like me, the need to establish a central point of contact for passengers with lost luggage? Do you also think it is necessary, in addition to the existing noise ombudsmen, to set up an ombudsmen's service for this kind of thing? Will you discuss with your fellow Minister Bellot to call baggage dealers like Swissport to account for the chaotic communication and handling of lost luggage? My questions are, of course, too late for the problems at the time, but above all I want a solution for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Detiège, there are international rules on lost or left-over baggage for air passengers. It concerns the Montreal Convention and the Warsaw Convention. In addition, there is also the European Regulation No. 2027/97 of 9 October 1997 on the liability of air carriers with regard to the air transport of passengers and their baggage. The rights of passengers in the event of cancellation or delay are also regulated by a European regulation. These matters fall within the competence of the Minister for Mobility. At the FPS Mobility there is the Denied Boarding Authority, where passengers can go with complaints regarding luggage etc. I do not know whether it would be possible or appropriate to also empower the Denied Boarding Authority to report lost or delayed baggage. It is up to my colleague from Mobility to judge that. Personally, I believe that a single point of contact for such cases can be useful for passengers. The question is whether the government should organise this. As you know, in our country there is the Consumer Office, which has residual competence. Consumers who have a dispute with a Belgian company and wish to resolve this in an extrajudicial manner may address themselves to a qualified entity. If there is no specific qualified entity, the Consumer Ombudsman is responsible for the matter. It seems disproportionate to me to set up a specific ombud service for this issue, which fortunately does not occur frequently on a large scale. Moreover, the traveller often has to do with a foreign operator. In such a case, he or she will have to address the European Centre for the Consumer, which will accompany him or her to the competent arbitration body abroad. I informed my colleague on Mobility of your question. You can do that yourself, of course, but I thought you'd appreciate it if I transferred them myself. Let us wait and see what his opinion is on this matter, and then, being in a residual position, I can see whether or not anything else needs to be done by the Minister of Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will also inform your fellow Minister Bellot of his attitude on this matter. It is true that there is European regulation, and it is true that the role or added value of a government can be questioned. I think it's big. The numbers I'm quoting aren't nothing. It was 15 000 passengers, only in this case. My second question concerns the lack of staff at Ryanair. You remember the chaos around there. It is increasingly happening that there is chaos at airports, due to any circumstances. It is important that airports, not only in Zaventem, but also in Charleroi, in particular in the major airports, have a point of contact where people can ask questions. That should at least be on the initiative of the government. Think, for example, of what Minister Jambon is doing about airport security. Sit around the table and point out that it is a pain for many. I am thinking, for example, of the number of people lost in an airport. Those are situations that arise. I hope that both ministers, you as Minister of Consumer Affairs and Minister Bellot, responsible for Mobility, can find a solution to a question that lives with a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u16	Mr President, Minister, from September to 31 October, nine airports were hit by massive cancellations of flights, due to a lack of staff at Ryanair. That made a mess of staff vacation planning, which meant that the company had no choice but to cancel flights. In our country there are at least 294 cancellations, of which 204 at Charleroi and 90 at Brussels Airport. With 204 flights cancelled, Charleroi is one of the worst affected airports. Customers are entitled to compensation if flights are cancelled less than two weeks before departure. The difficult procedure will save many affected citizens the trouble to apply for it. Consumer organisation Test-Achats also fears that not all travellers will get what they are entitled to and sent a notice of formal notice. I was pleased to hear that your administration has asked you to open an investigation into the cancelled flights. The cancellation of flights on such a large scale is indeed unacceptable. However, I am missing a central point of contact, which I also asked in my previous question, to think about solutions with the parties involved. The existing consumer ombudsmen have proved their worth several times since their creation. I am therefore, as you have already understood, very much in favour of such a service for travellers. After the recent debacle on lost luggage and mass cancellations in September and October, the need is high. Do you think it is also necessary, you have actually just replied to me that, in addition to the existing noise ombud service in the short term, there would also be a wider ombud service, more generally, consumers in air traffic?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u17	Mrs Detiège, you know that we contacted Ryanair directly. The FPS Economy has filed a claim for strike. After the Economic Inspectorate found that all complaints in the past about the cancellations and non-compliance with Belgian and European laws were met by Ryanair, and after the promise was made by Ryanair and the commitment was made not to do so in the future, we stopped the claim for strike. That also happened on the advice of my administration. We assume that we will ask Minister Bellot whether such a service has been appointed and what his opinion is on this matter. Then, as you propose, we can work on this together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u18	Thank you for this positive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u19	Minister, there are more and more children and adults in bicycle helmets, which is certainly a good thing in cities. A good bicycle helmet can protect you and your children from a possible head injury. Of the fatal bicycle accidents, 80% are due to skull trauma. Children are particularly vulnerable, all the more so because they are still inexperienced in traffic, but apparently many bicycle helmets do not provide sufficient protection for children. In September, Test-Achattor had children's bicycle helmets tested on the basis of a new method from the University of Strasbourg. The risk of main injuries was investigated, both for linear or perpendicular and oblique falls. The test showed that just like eight of the twelve bicycle helmets tested on the market were tubulard. The helmet that received the best report still produces an average injury risk of 30%. The new Test-Achats test clearly showed that the current standards of accreditation are in need of revision, because all helmets tested did meet the European standard 1078 for bicycle helmets and also the European standard 1080 for helmets for small children, but those European standards date back to the 1970s and are apparently hopelessly obsolete. The standards only take into account a linear or perpendicular fall, which, however, rarely occurs in real life. Children who fall with their bike usually go down sideways, for example on the curb. There is a sloping impact on the helmet, but it must not be tested today. The manufacturing standards of bicycle helmets fall within your competence, Minister, and that is why I have the following questions for you. Can Belgium itself tighten up manufacturing standards or can it only do so at European level? If it can only be done at European level, will you have it recalibrated and adjusted? If Belgium can tighten the standards itself, what steps will you take to make the bicycle helmets safer? The current bicycle helmets offer variable protection. Some bicycle helmets for children have a major risk of injury of 80%, as I said, and that is unacceptable. Will you remove the bicycle helmets that do not offer sufficient protection from the market? Finally, how is the crash resistance of the bicycle helmets for adults? I should like to hear the results of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u20	Mrs Detiège, on your first three questions, I can answer that changing or tightening standards can only be done at European level. My administration has allowed this issue to be dealt with in the consultation of the European market supervisory authorities. At that meeting it appeared that a new test method to increase protection against brain injuries is already being developed within the competent European Globalisation Committee. The experts who carry out the tests for Test-Achats, which also communicated about them at some point, participate in those talks. Apparently, it has some feet in the earth. The new standard is expected to be finalized within one to two years. There are also European harmonised standards for bicycle helmets for both children and adults. They were revised in 2012 and 2013. All helmets that meet those standards should be considered legally safe. In the past, we tested adult bicycle helmets ourselves during a European campaign in 2010. Three out of twenty-six helmets were found to have insufficient shock absorption. These tests were, of course, carried out in accordance with European standards at the time. So they're working on it, but unfortunately it's gonna take a while. We are cooperating and encouraging the rapid adaptation of standards, which must be done at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am very pleased that you raised the issue at the appropriate level, the European level. I think it's kind of weird that it's taking so long. There are already methods available. At least that's what I've heard from Test-Achats and from literature about it. I don't think it's that difficult, but that's my reasoning. You are talking about one to two years before a new standard comes into force. Meanwhile, a lot of people get a false sense of security. Parents think it's okay if their kid puts on a helper. I'm having a hard time with that. Although you note that things are going wrong in our country, it seems that you cannot intervene until standards have been adjusted at European level. At least I understand that from your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u22	Yes, the European harmonised standards for bicycle helmets also apply to bicycle helmets for children. The standards were revised in 2012 and 2013. All helmets complying with those standards should be considered safe until further notice. I find it difficult to set standards myself or decide that the standards that were revised at European level in 2012 and 2013 are not good.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u23	Minister, I ask you the question based on the literature I have received. These include tests at the University of Strasbourg. Normally Test-Buy also performs good tests. The tests showed that eight of the twelve bicycle helmets available on the market do not meet the standards. The way of falling, perpendicular or oblique, plays a role in this. That test result doesn't reassure me. That is why I ask you whether you cannot intervene, given the signals from organisations that are closely involved. Perhaps you can just write it just a warning to the manufacturers, telling them that their products do not comply according to tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u24	The tests have also been carried out at European level. Suppose I have these helmets withdrawn from the market, then the manufacturers can argue that they have respected European standards. Those helmets must therefore be considered safe. If tests show that there are problems with those helmets in the event of a lateral fall, I can only ask to look at them and that is what is happening at the moment. I also regret that this is taking so long, but that is obviously all very technical. I would like to investigate what else I can do, but that is very limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u25	I used to be a member of the Health Commission. There, the Minister was able to take sanctions or measures for her country in decisions taken by Europe if necessary. I know that it is difficult because Europe follows certain standards. But I was hoping there was a way to act somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u26	Colleagues, there is no intention of holding a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u27	If I am not mistaken, as regards public health, the Member States have the opportunity to intervene at European level. This concerns product standards and product safety. The impact, impact and potential of a Member State are more limited and not the same as in the field of public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u28	Then you'd better hit the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u29	Or else you'll have to ask a new question, Mrs Detiège.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u30	In 2019 there would be new standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u31	Mr Minister, I will now speak with a different intonation. On 1 April 2017, Primagaz Benelux acquired the LPG activities of Total Belgium. Total Luxembourg followed in June 2017. The acquisition applies to propane in tanks and bottles and concerns both the domestic, professional and industrial segment. This significantly strengthens Primagaz's position on the Belgian and Luxembourg markets. With only one competitor in the sale of propane at national level, Primagaz creates a monopoly with this acquisition. Propane gas has a lot of advantages. It belongs to the green energy sources and is economical. There is no danger of water, soil or air pollution. It is characterised by low CO and sulphur emissions and a minimal soot deposition. Propane heating systems generate up to 68 % less greenhouse gases than electricity. Since 1 August 2017, propane and butane in bottles are no longer subject to the maximum price. This is set out in the Technical Annex to the Programme Agreement on the system of the maximum selling prices of petroleum products of 3 July 2017 concerning liquid petroleum gases in movable containers. The maximum price for propane in bottles in 2016 was 1.53 euros per kg. In September 2017, the recommended price was 1.73 euros per kg. At 100 kg there is a difference of at least 20 euros or a price increase of 20 %. Often the price per kilo is higher than the recommended price, since propane distributors have been free to determine the price since August 2017. Depending on consumption, the additional costs may be high. Especially the category of the least capital-intensive uses propane for domestic applications. Minister, what conditions were imposed on the takeover to prevent Primagaz from taking advantage of his dominant position as the largest player? What measures were taken to protect the vulnerable group of domestic propane customers from this price increase? The use of propane should be encouraged taking into account the climate objectives. The current price increase is just the opposite. Do you agree that the government should encourage citizens to switch from electricity to propane gas, where a natural gas connection is not possible? How will you translate this into your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u32	I addressed the Belgian Competition Authority about the acquisition of Total Belgium by Primagaz Benelux. The turnover of the undertakings concerned does not exceed the notification thresholds, which meant that the acquisition should not be notified to the Competition Authority for investigation. The Belgian Competition Authority has therefore not imposed any conditions. Before addressing the various questions, it is important to make it clear that a maximum price set in accordance with the programme agreement still applies to propane in bulk. It is mainly this propane product that is used for heating purposes. Since 2005, the Social Heating Fund has existed in bulk fuel oil, lampperoleum C and propane, which provides for a partial refund of the propane invoice for certain target groups. This intervention today amounts to 14 euro cents per litre and is limited to 1 500 liters per year or a maximum of 210 euros. This scheme continues to apply to those who fulfil the conditions. The price increase you cite in your question must first of all be interpreted correctly. Until 31 July 2017, the sales prices of the propane bottles were capped by a maximum price in force. This increase in the period 2016-2017 can only be attributed to the price increase of propane products on the international oil markets. Other parameters of the price formula remained constant and did not undergo any changes. Neither the release of these prices since 1 August 2017 nor the acquisition to which I referred earlier have had an impact on the observed price increase. After all, it cannot be avoided that an energy product becomes more expensive for consumers as a result of the price increase of the raw material at the base. Moreover, the monitoring tables prepared by the administration show that the sales prices actually applied since 1 August 2017 are not significantly higher than before. The international propane price has continued to rise since then, which means that the final price on the market is higher anyway. It was also found that during the last months of the period during which the maximum price was still in force, the gas cylinders were increasingly sold at the maximum price level. This indicates that the pressure on price setting had increased significantly. The risk that the maximum price would compromise the supply of the Belgian gas bottle market became real. The use of gas bottles has also evolved considerably in recent years towards earlier industrial and tertiary purposes and much less towards primary needs such as heating the home. All these elements have helped to stop fixing and paying a maximum price for the gas cylinders. The question of what role propane should play in Belgium's future energy mix in order to achieve the climate objectives is, of course, also a question for my colleague responsible for Energy and Environment and also for regional ministers. However, from the premise that propane can play a role in this, I would like to stress once again that it is necessary for the programme agreement to provide a proper economic framework to continue or develop trade in propane in bulk. These traders must also be given a certain level of profitability, otherwise this activity will be likely to fade out slowly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer, because it is a rather complex matter. If the price of raw materials has indeed increased, then the price is also rising internationally. In that sense, I follow your reasoning. However, I would ask you to continue to watch over a possible monopoly and to act when prices rise extremely. That's my concern. Hydrogen is also a very environmentally friendly fuel, next to propane gas. I didn't know that myself. I shall therefore ask the other ministers what their attitude is on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u34	Mr President, Minister, with the climax of subscription systems such as Spotify, Netflix, etc., economists are beginning to use the term "subscription economy". The latest proposal, launched by the Volvo Polestar brand, concerns the possibility of using a car by subscription. The principle is relatively simple. The aim is to allow persons who wish to have a car to enter into a two- or three-year agreement in return for the use of the car, which may even offer maintenance services. Polestar offers two options: pay at once and then add a supplement to the basic subscription for services or opt for a monthly payment. The idea is to provide a car without hassle, by offering services that exceed needs, desires and expectations and, above all, by removing the disadvantages associated with possession. Minister, are you aware of such a system? Apart from Volvo, have any companies in Belgium ever referred to car subscriptions? Does this system already exist in other countries of the world? What is the difference between a car with a subscription and a leasing mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u35	Mr President, Ms Jadin, at the 2018 Motor Show, my administration found that such a car rental formula was growing and that it was offered not only by leasing companies, but also by car brands. I have not yet been able to read the terms of subscription for the Polestar brand, but in view of the description, it is probably a kind of all-inclusive rental – that the automotive sector calls "private lease". This system is already common in the Netherlands, Spain and Italy. The subscriptions mentioned here are to be considered as rental arrangements for a fixed period (renting), without purchase option. In the leasing mechanism, such an option is proposed at the end of the use period. Leasing to the consumer with option of purchase – leasing – is subject to the rules on consumer credit set out in Book VII of the Code of Economic Law. On the other hand, the rental formula referred to here is not yet regulated as such. Of course, I will strictly follow the evolution of the offer of such subscriptions. If necessary, I will take regulatory measures to safeguard the interests of the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u36	Minister, given the current developments, this is the best initiative to take. Although I did not have the opportunity to visit the Motor Show, I am very much the technological and digital developments. It is true that, in view of this development, we will experience autonomous cars in five to ten years. This will require, much more than we can imagine today, a recast of the regulations in force. I am thinking in particular of insurance problems. We must therefore follow this issue very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u37	Minister, the contactless payment system will become more widespread for all Belgian cardholders, regardless of their bank. However, there are several problems and concerns. First of all, this system only works with devices equipped with NFC technology and Android operating system. As a result, iPhone owners are not yet able to access this system and payment by Apple Pay is not yet available in Belgium. Currently, Belgians make about one million payments per month with the Bancontact mobile app. More than two thirds of payment terminals in Belgium support contactless payment by NFC technology which is easy to use, fast, without the need for a Wi-Fi or 4G connection and secured by the introduction of a PIN code. However, according to Test-Achats and an investigation conducted by the consumer organisation, the safety of the NFC system is not infallible. Without his or her knowledge, a consumer can get his or her money stolen by approaching a terminal from his or her bag or pocket. The consumer organisation recommends that banks offer free choice of a card with or without a NFC function – or at least the function can be deactivated – and mention, in the excerpts, the payments that have taken place without contact. Minister, what do you think about the generalisation of the contactless payment system? Would you like to encourage businesses, stores and locations where transactions take place to have a contactless payment terminal? What positive impacts could this system have on the Belgian economy? Are economic benefits possible, particularly with a possible increase in household consumption? Do you think there is a desirable correlation between this new method of payment and an increase in domestic consumption? The problem of securing this system is crucial for its serene use. Do you have any contact with the banks that have the NFC system on this security issue? If so, how could the security of this system be improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u38	Mrs Galant, the adoption of contactless technology in Belgium is only in its infancy, but this innovation is bound to develop and thus change the way consumers are paid in the months and years to come. This payment system is accompanied by a range of security mechanisms, including the limitation of the maximum payment amount and the requirement to identify via the PIN code for higher amounts. This payment system is legally regulated by the European Payment Services Directive and will be used by consumers if they so wish. This is the principle of supply and demand. For the government, it is especially important to ensure that such systems are safe, so that consumers have confidence in their use. The NFC payment changes the way we pay in general. The new non-contact payment system for which there is no need to introduce a PIN code only concerns payments for small amounts. There is therefore no reason to believe that this payment system will revolutionize the market, even if it is widely used by households. The limitation of the expenditure ceiling for this method of payment without PIN code is therefore not such as to upset our economy and domestic consumption of households. The consumer remains free to use this method of payment or not. This is an alternative to other existing methods of payment for small amounts. As far as the security of the contactless payment is concerned, I can still tell you the following. First, guarantees such as the cap on amounts and verification of the PIN code have been provided. Therefore, only small amounts can be paid without the introduction of the PIN code. Beyond that, the code is requested. In addition, additional security mechanisms are foreseen. In fact, although small amounts often do not require the introduction of the PIN code, it can nevertheless be requested after a series of transactions. The European Banking Authority is currently developing draft regulatory technical standards for payment service providers. These standards will specify, among other things, the requirements for strong customer authentication, which must be requested by payment service providers in order to ensure an increase in security and consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u39	Minister, I am pleased to hear that steps will be taken to further improve safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u40	Mr President, Minister Climeworks, based in Switzerland, captures up to 1,000 tonnes of CO2 per year via vacuum systems. This CO2 is then sold to agricultural companies that inject it back into their greenhouses in order to accelerate the process of photosynthesis. It is an effective solution to reduce CO2 emissions from coal-fired power plants and industrial sites. However, this technology remains expensive and there are few companies in this area. LanzaTech, a New Zealand company, also explains that it is a matter of "taking pollution to make new products with". It begins the construction of a commercial site in Belgium, where CO2 emissions from steel plants will be converted into fuel, which will have a cost equivalent to that of the cheapest alternative fuels already on the market. For Carlos Moedas, European Commissioner for Research, Innovation and Science, this is a circular economy where "waste from a sector must become the raw material for something else". Minister, could you give me more details about circular economy systems? Are there many such companies operating in our country? To your knowledge, do Belgian companies manifest themselves in such ecological projects? Where will New Zealand's LanzaTech commercial site be built? If you have information about this, what activities will the company carry out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, I shall be brief. At the moment, according to our information, very few such companies exist in the world. The technology developed by LanzaTech is used by ArcelorMittal Belgium. A project of the two firms is being carried out at ArcelorMittal's site in Ghent. Exhaust gases from the steel industry, rich in carbon, are intended for fermentation. These appropriate bacterial strains convert these gases into ethanol.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u42	Minister, the IDD Directive must be transposed into Belgian legislation. It contains many valuable elements, including knowledge, further training, duty of care and allowances. Some choices need to be made in the transposition process. There is, for example, the continuing training aspect. It goes without saying that the responsible for distribution (VVD) and the effective leader (EL) remain well informed about the many changes and new developments, however, in terms of the product categories that are sold effectively. The existing system of training points already provides for this. People in contact with the public, called PCPs, are often trained in the current office by the VVD or EL and are therefore excluded from the formal points system. That system has already proven to work. Any errors by PCPs are the responsibility of the VVD or EL, which generally makes the need for further training feel good. There is some concern in the sector because of the rumours that PCPs would now also be covered by the points system. This would be a new financial and once again an administrative burden on intermediaries. As regards fees, the new Directive is more flexible than its predecessor AssurMiFID. The IDD states that for insurance with an investment component, the fees should not adversely affect the quality of the service provided. It is also true that the intermediary should be transparent where useful and necessary, but that the administrative burden should be reduced as much as possible. After all, consumers benefit from clear product interpretation and the overall cost picture, but not necessarily from knowledge of all its components. I have the following questions. Is it true that further training will only be compulsory for the category of products that the office effectively sells, so general knowledge combined with either "non-life" or "life general" or "life with investment component"? How many hours per year and per category will one have to follow? Will only the office manager such as EL or VVD follow that training outside and is he or she supposed to pass the knowledge on to the PCP as an employer according to the needs of the office? Can you confirm that, with regard to the fees, gold-plating will not be done? Offices should give priority to quality as intermediaries. That goes without saying. The client is entitled to detailed information on prices which should not adversely affect the quality of the service provided. The customer wants to know the total picture and does not necessarily need an explanation of the components that determine the price. Moreover, the question arises as to whether the Belgian transposition of the AssurMiFID Directive has not gone too far in this respect. Will the applicable regulations on non-life inductions be reviewed in view of the huge administrative burden? Is there any provision for other measures to reduce the administrative burden in the case of transposition? Today's Belgian legislation goes far beyond what the IDD is asking for. Are the current legal obligations being reduced to what the IDD requires, as the government agreement included that there would be no gold-plating in the transposition of EU directives? What timing is foreseen for the conversion of the IDD? There is a good chance that Europe will decide that the rules will not be required until 1 October 2018. Will the government take this into account in the transposition process? That question is also linked to my question on the IDD 2. The IDD Directive needs to be transposed, but there are still a lot of concerns from the insurance sector. There has already been a lot of consultation and it would be clear in the near future. However, neither Parliament nor the sector has so far received clear communication on this issue. In its opinion, the Hoge Raad voor de Zelfstanden and the SME writes that the Belgian legislator has gone beyond the European approach. The application of the MiFID rules to the IDD rules is referred to as a form of overregulation. The input from the general survey of the FSMA shall not be taken into account. Administrative burdens are increasing out of proportion. Moreover, not all qualifying training courses are recognised. I mentioned most of those elements, but there are some new ones. The advice of the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs is also a new fact in this dossier. Minister, how do you assess this situation? What will you do in a short period of time, preferably very short, to get insurance agents and insurance brokers into the story?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u43	Mr Klaps, you are right to stress that the IDD attaches great importance to the professional knowledge of all persons responsible for the distribution of insurance products, from the effective leader (EL), the responsible for distribution (VVD) to the persons in contact with the public (PCP). They must all be educated. This further training will take into account, on the one hand, the importance of general knowledge and the need to know the products sold in full and, on the other hand, the cost and time investment. The way in which further training is to be carried out will not be affected. This was also the subject of consultations with the professional associations concerned. As regards the recognition of training, the current law provides that professional knowledge must in principle be proven by the success of an examination recognised by the FSMA. Holders of certain diploma holders are exempt from this requirement, but the system of recognised training as it existed in the original 1995 Act was already abolished in the Law of 4 April 2014. With regard to inductions and the aspect of cost transparency, the input of the sector has also been taken into account and I will propose a reasonable balance between the need for consumers to be able to compare with the administrative burden on the sector. The directive is being transposed as faithfully as possible, except for the rules in the legislation that we already know and are essential for the protection of consumers. It is true that the IDD is a minimum harmonisation, where Belgium was in favour of maximum harmonisation. In addition to the public consultation and the various opinions, my cabinet has indeed also consulted with a number of stakeholders. As a result of these contacts, a number of changes are currently being made to the text. The aim is to reduce the administrative burden to the minimum. For example, the digitalization of registration is our preferred option. Discussions on the date of entry into force are currently under way at European level. It is awaiting a final position. The proposal now before the Council envisages its entry into force for July 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I note that there is not much change in continuing training. This seems to me to be a good thing, because the system works. In terms of induction, I will have to wait and see your texts in order to be able to assess them. I assume that no gold-plating also means that the gold-plating of the past, if we could reduce it under this directive, would have to be taken into account in the same philosophy, if not again, a rule being imposed. I look forward to your texts and will not fail to look at them critically. If necessary, I will then make my comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u45	Mr Minister, the European Commission suspects the brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev SA (AB InBev) to have abused its dominant position on the Belgian market. In particular, it would have prevented the importation of its Jupiler and Leffe beers into Belgium from the Netherlands and France. In the latter two states, products are generally cheaper because of higher competition in their markets. Belgian consumers probably had to pay more to buy their favourite beers. The practices of the brewing company AB InBev would be contrary to the foundations of the European Union, as they would have deprived consumers of the advantages of the single market, namely a wider choice and lower prices. According to the Commission, AB InBev has in particular changed the packaging of its products in the Netherlands and France to make them more difficult to sell in Belgium. He reportedly removed the French text from his cans over-Moerdijk and the Dutch text from those in Hexagone, in order to prevent their sale in the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking regions of Belgium. Minister, have you read this file? Do you think that the European Commission's reaction is justified and deserves to be continued? Have you had any formal contacts with the Commission on this matter? What did she tell you? Do you support this procedure? What risks or penalties can the company fear if this procedure ends? Has your administration received complaints from Belgian consumers about this company's unfair and abusive actions? How much do you estimate the injury caused by AB InBev to the Belgian beer market and to Belgian consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u46	Deputy Prime Minister, according to figures relayed by several media, the price of beer has increased by 23.5%, a much greater increase than that of our neighbours. However, the AB Inbev, Maes and Duvel groups supply almost 70% of the market and the sector's turnover has grown by 26.8% over the last five years. By removing the increases in excise duties, many coffee makers wonder about the other reasons for this increase in the cost of beer. According to the principle of supply and demand and knowing that beer consumption has fallen by 8.9% in favour of wine, this price increase seems paradoxical. Especially since 66% of Belgian production is devoted to exports and represents significant gains for companies in the sector. Minister, what are the reasons for this increase in the price of beer? How much does our Belgian beer export? In which countries does this sector export the most?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u47	Dear colleagues, on 13 December last I met with the Belgian senior executives of AB InBev. I asked them for an explanation of the price increase announced a week after the European Commission's previous information regarding the investigation into AB InBev for potential abuse of a dominant position. Price adjustment is a decision that has already been made more than three months before and was subsequently communicated to customers, in accordance with contractual conditions, well before the European Commission communication. AB InBev justifies the adjustment of €0.015 per beer by an increase in fees, including raw materials for both packaging and ingredients. Similar price adjustments were also made in neighbouring countries. During the consultation, AB InBev reaffirmed Belgium's importance for the company. The company's roots are located in Leuven and the Belgian brands are icons of the group at national and international level. The image of the Belgian beer sector is thus carried internationally by the group. Its main headquarters, which also houses the Global Innovation Centre, as well as the area's headquarters are and remain in Leuven. In addition, AB InBev continues to increase the capacity of its breweries in Leuven, Jupille and Hoegaarden. Over the past two years, EUR 155 million has been invested. These are accompanied by more than one hundred additional recruitments in 2019 in production units and at headquarters in Leuven. Beer exports amounted to over EUR 1 billion in 2015, an increase of 62.4% compared to 2010. The main destination countries for these exports are France (27.8 per cent), the United States (20.4 per cent), the Netherlands (15.4 per cent) and Germany (6 per cent). Indeed, I have become aware of the fact that the European Commission has, on its own initiative, opened an investigation to assess whether AB InBev has abused its dominant position on the Belgian market by preventing the import of its beers from France and the Netherlands. It is not for the Belgian Government to interfere in the Commission's investigation, which acts as an independent competition authority. I therefore have no information other than that made public by the Commission. In general, the Commission does not provide information on its investigations, whether on the duration, content or means used, or on the risk that this communication would adversely affect the proper conduct of the investigation itself. If AB Inbev is found guilty of anti-competitive practices, the Commission may impose a fine of up to 10 % of its total turnover. In determining the amount of the possible fine, the duration of the fine should be taken into account, in addition to the seriousness of the infringement. Based on the results of its investigation and the extent of the potential infringement, the Commission will assess the injury caused by AB Inbev and determine the possible fine taking into account it. In Belgium, data from the SPF Economy show no consumer complaints against possible anti-competitive or unfair practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u49	Mr. Minister, you have been perfectly clear about the scope of our government's action in this process. It remains to be hoped that the work of the European Commission will be diligent and prudent and will make it possible to find a balance in the face of what, for a simple beer consumer, can be deplorable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u50	Questions Nos 22285, 22307, 22579 and 22584 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u51	Minister, following your answers to a question about Proximus in a plenary session, I have a number of additional questions. In the meantime, I have not found anything on this in the press, but I hope that the questions will still be topical. On 9 November 2017, you said that the minority originally communicated is in fact a large number, about 150,000 customers. Those people are still renting a fixed phone. Most contracts were launched after the abolition of the lease obligation in 1987. Often the device has been paid off for a long time, but Proximus does not inform the customer and assumes that consumers know that they no longer have to pay the rent and that they themselves are responsible for knowing when the rent has been paid off effectively. According to Test-Achats, in some cases even 30 years of rent would be requested for a simple telephone. Testimonies show that rental prices are between 3 and 5 euros. On an annual basis Proximus therefore earns 5 to 9 million euros, only at these rental prices. Proximus is a public body. I think it's a very strange situation. Most tenants are older people or vulnerable consumers, who do not understand their Proximus invoice or fail to understand it. In the plenary, you informed us that you had sent a letter to Proximus for text and explanation. It seems that you already received an answer to two questions, namely how many customers it was about and how one would solve it. Two questions were not answered: how did the communication go and how is it charged? I have the following questions. In the meantime, has Proximus found a solution to this very consumer-friendly approach? Did you get an answer to your question as to how the communication went to the customers? Did you get an answer to your question as to how it would be charged?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u52	If there's some time between a question and an answer, sometimes we're a little further. Proximus has indeed taken the initiative to put an end to this practice. During the month of December, subscribers who rented a fixed telephone set were registered by Proximus. They were given the opportunity to put an end to the rent. They could've kept the plane, too. In the past, no specific communication was made to subscribers with regard to the rental of aircraft. The rent was periodically charged on the invoice. The monthly amount could vary slightly depending on the type of device. The amounts were in the order of magnitude you quoted. Proximus has also decided not to offer new rental subscriptions from this year on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u53	Minister, that was a short but good and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u54	The next issue shows once again the usefulness of a central point of contact. After the bankruptcy of Air Berlin, a large number of tickets ordered were not refunded. There were at least a hundred thousand victims. Nor was an alternative flight planned. It is another fine example of what is going wrong at airports. In the meantime, I have already received an answer to my question. So I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u55	I might be able to surprise you. Wait and see. I checked with the European Centre for the Consumer. There I have heard that fortunately there have been very few questions of intervention concerning Air Berlin, to be precise 24. A distinction should be made according to whether the passenger has only booked a flight with an air carrier or whether the flight is part of a package journey. In the latter case, the tour operator is obliged to offer the traveller an alternative. In accordance with the travel contract law, he is liable for the proper performance of the contract as a travel organisation. The passenger who only booked a flight before Air Berlin applied for liquidation is not in the same situation. He becomes a creditor in bankruptcy and will therefore have to address the curator. Moreover, it is the German bankruptcy law that applies here. We are dealing here with a very specific circumstance, namely the bankruptcy of a foreign company. I do not think that a specific ombud service could provide a solution in this respect. Moreover, the ECC Belgium provides very useful and practical information in connection with the bankruptcy. I invite you to take a look at the website www.eccbelgie.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u56	Mrs. Detiège, did the Minister surprise you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u57	Yes, I do, because I'd never heard of the website. I am also surprised by the number of complaints: 24 is very little. Then I wonder why. Is that because the travelers don't know the way? That's what I think. The issues you raised seem to me to be rather complicated for many consumers. There are more and more communication channels. That's why it seems useful to centralize things. You say that this was a German bankruptcy, to which German law applies. Then it seems logical to me that Belgium should make some effort to better inform those concerned so that they can understand what the legislation is like there. I think the average Belgian does not know what the legislation on bankruptcies in Germany means. It is again a good example of the usefulness of a central point of contact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u58	You will be pleasantly surprised when you visit that website. Under "Tips for filling out the form" you will find all the steps to be taken for a claim very simple explained. If the people do not know that website, I assume that the hotline will immediately point them on that website. We keep an eye on the matter. For the time being, it's a small number. Perhaps you are right and it is because they do not know the way. On this website, however, it is easy to explain how to proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u59	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I stand by it, many people are lost when it comes to their rights and obligations in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the subject of the failure of night shop operators to comply with the regulations on closing days and hours and the display of prices frequently comes back in the news and, in my view, demonstrates the ineffectiveness of the measures put in place to enforce the legal framework being relative to them. The fact that this situation persists is detrimental to the more scrupulous small traders who, by some form of state failure, are penalized by their respect for the law. Not to mention the neighbourhood disturbances that may be caused by non-compliance with closing hours. You said that you wanted the Economic Inspectorate to carry out more checks and ask the public prosecutor's offices to prosecute the traders responsible for infringements. You also asked the Economic Inspectorate at the time to investigate these offences. Today, the stagnation of this situation raises some questions in me. Minister, is the Economic Inspectorate properly armed to conduct sufficient controls and enforce the law? In the case of a negative response, how many do you assess the means needed to fill this gap? Are sanctions sufficiently dissuasive? Do you already have the results of the survey you announced last April? If so, what are they? If you don't, when will you get them? The municipalities, as a power of proximity, are most able to identify and solve such problems. Does the Economic Inspectorate cooperate sufficiently with the latter? Moreover, if the municipalities were able to close a night-shop that would disturb public order, the sanction would often be considered disproportionate for cases of non-compliance with closing hours. Would it then be possible to review the administrative sanctions ceiling for this type of infringement in order to make them more dissuasive?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u61	Mr President, my dear colleague, in April 2017, following the results of a new general inquiry, I entrusted the Economic Inspectorate with a strict monitoring of the problem. Since then, all alerts relating to night shops and the law on opening hours have been monitored on an ad hoc basis. Since then, 132 alerts have been submitted and 119 investigations have been carried out. I cannot yet give you the final results because some have not yet been definitively closed. For the time being, 5 warning minutes and 49 pro justitia have been drafted. In the event of an infringement, the trader faces a prison sentence of 1 month to 1 year and a fine of 2 000 to 80,000 euros. The court may also order the closure of the establishment. I leave the question of whether the penalties provided for in the law are sufficiently dissuasive to the assessment of my colleague, the Minister of the Middle Classes, whose regulation falls within the competence of the Minister. Regular contacts are held between the municipalities and the Economic Inspectorate on the opening hours of night shops. This is often done at the initiative of the municipalities themselves. I will not comment on the exercise of powers by the municipalities to establish municipal administrative sanctions in the context of public order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm still impressed by the numbers. You mentioned 119 surveys and 49 pro justitia, which still makes 40% of people who are not in order, or not in order. Plus 5 minutes! I therefore think that the issue of administrative sanctions should really be addressed with your middle class colleague and how the municipalities could actually use administrative sanctions to deal with these problems that serve the correct and rule-abiding trader. Not to mention the neighbourhood disorders that this type of operation sometimes produces and that do not appear to me to be regular compared to others. I shall therefore continue with a question to your colleague Mr Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament 22008 by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u64	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you regularly about a subject that affects a large number of citizens: the telephone harassment of certain commercial firms. Initiatives have been put in place in Belgium to try to combat this growing phenomenon. First, there's the "Don't call me anymore!" list. which allows citizens who have registered to no longer be contacted by these companies. Unfortunately, there are loopholes. Foreign companies are not subject to these provisions and continue to harass citizens with impunity. Secondly, there is the possibility for citizens who have been harassed by companies to file a complaint within the FPS Economy contact point. Again, there are territorial boundaries. Complaints received for foreign appeals are problematic and it is not possible for the Economic Inspectorate to act. In a globalised world where trade and communication transcend borders, it is essential to design consumer protection at European and even global level. Minister, in the case of a complaint received for an appeal from a foreign company located in Europe, the SPF Economy invites the person to go to the European Consumer Centre (ECC). I went there for a walk and the procedure to make a complaint is not simple. Therefore, why not be more proactive by ensuring that the FPS Economy transfers complaints of this type directly to the CEC? Finally, I hope that, in the long run, citizens who wish to do so will no longer be able to receive calls from Belgian and foreign companies. Also, I would like to have your opinion about setting up a blacklist, such as the list "Don't call me anymore!", on a wider scale and why not on a European scale. Would you be in favour of this device? Do you think we need to go further in the fight against telephone harassment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u65	Mr President, Mr Delannois, first of all I want to give details about the point of contact. If an alert relates only to the fact that a person is called for commercial reasons from abroad to a call number, despite the fact that the caller has registered in the list "Don't call me anymore!", the Economic Inspectorate will not refer the person concerned to the European Consumer Centre. It is only when the consumer can have a direct interest that such a direction will take place. I am in favour of consumer protection measures against boring telemarketing. The handling of complaints about unsolicited calls and the list "Don't call me anymore!" continue to be a priority for the Economic Inspectorate. There is European protection through the directive on unfair business practices vis-à-vis consumers which prohibits telephone harassment. This Directive falls within the scope of Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 on European cooperation in matters covered by consumer protection directives. The European authorities are therefore called upon to cooperate. A supervisory authority of one Member State may request the assistance of another Member State in the context of a file concerning repeated and unwanted calls by telephone. If an initiative comes from the European Union which aims to better protect the consumer, for example through a common list, I will certainly support it. Finally, I would like to stress that foreign operators are often active in a country outside the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u66	Thank you for your answer even though I think we should be a little more proactive. You say that the calls come mainly from countries outside the European Union and I can assure you - to live on the border - that the problem still exists in a very important way at the level of the district of Tournai-Ath-Mouscron.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u67	Minister, FSMA recently conducted a study on the cost of outstanding balance insurance. It appears that the insurers, during the period 2011-2015, only paid compensation in 0.24% of the contracts under way. I quote the survey: "During this period, the companies under investigation received an average of around €65 million in premiums each year." FSMA states that 12% of this amount is used to pay compensation. The payment of fees and commissions accounts for 53% of the amount. The balance of 35% represents a profit for the insurance undertaking, excluding any limited premiums that it had to pay to a reinsurer. These figures are even more compelling when compared to other data on access to mortgages for certain population groups. In general, it appears that one in three cases of discrimination relate to access to goods and services, mainly in the field of insurance. When a loan is granted to HIV-positive people, banks would increase the premium by 100 to 400 per cent, even for people on antiretroviral therapy. At the beginning of the legislature, however, the PS group had introduced a bill containing various provisions on mortgage credit. Regrettably, this was overtaken by the majority in 2016. The purpose of the proposal was to provide guidance on the contracts attached to the mortgage by requiring the lender to report the overall effective annual rate. Thus, it would have been easier to compare these elements before any commitment. It also prohibited the lender from raising the interest rate on mortgage credit in the event of early termination of ancillary contracts. More fundamentally, it seems to me that the remaining balance insurance market should be better regulated. Minister, how do you react to the FSMA study? Currently, the surplus is used to generate dividends. In my view, they could be better used, both to reduce the prices of the remaining balance insurances due for all but also to allow people with illnesses at risk to gain easier access to property. What steps do you intend to take to change the system currently in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u68	Mrs Winckel, as Minister of Economy and Consumer Protection, I have expressed my support for the FSMA's initiative to initiate an investigation into the remaining balance-of-payments insurance associated with consumer credit. The FSMA study concerns the remaining balance insurance due for consumer credit and not for mortgage credit. As part of its investigation, the FSMA not only examines the clarity of the general terms and conditions and the transparency of the cost structure, but also ensures the quality and transparency of the advertisements. The first findings of the survey published by the FSMA are interesting: these products are expensive for the coverage offered. It is therefore useful to advise those contracting a consumer credit to ask themselves whether they really need such outstanding balance insurance. On the other hand, the cost structure is rarely clearly communicated. High remuneration may lead sellers of these insurances, who in many cases also act as sellers of consumer credit, to place the interest of customers at the centre of their concerns insufficiently. The obligation to look for the product best suited to the customer will be further regulated by law with the transposition of the IDD Directive this year. Under the Directive, policyholders will be better protected, customers better informed and the rules of conduct improved according to their application for insurance distributors. In addition, the directive aims to give consumers the same protection, regardless of the distribution channel, such as the broker, agent, insurance company, travel agent or supermarket. It also underlines the importance of offering an insurance product that meets the needs and requirements of the consumer. The insurer or insurance intermediary must promote a product that corresponds to the specific profile of the consumer. The remuneration received by the insurer or insurance intermediary cannot play any role in the selection of products. Finally, on the basis of the information at my disposal, I would like to inform you that the FSMA is currently finalizing its investigation. It seems to me appropriate to wait some time after the transposition of the IDD directive comes into force to consider whether it is necessary to impose additional measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u69	Minister, thank you. I understand that we share the same concerns. You agree with us that the FSMA's finding is challenging. You're talking about this directive. Has its transposition already been carried out or will it only be implemented? In the second case, can you tell us the timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u70	Before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u71	It is really important to be able to act. When you see the numbers, there's really a emptiness. As you have said, we must act both on the information and on a better framework of these outstanding balance insurances. It is not only necessary to frame, but also to inform consumers and see if it is really necessary to contract this type of insurance. I agree with you on the need to await the conclusions of the FSMA investigation and to see what the transposition of this directive will do. I will allow myself to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u72	Mr President, Minister, last July I asked you about the increase in the prices of funeral directors. In fact, apparently, these prices have risen by almost 35 per cent in ten years. In addition, two thirds of the enterprises were not in line with the regulations in force, a finding based on the results of the controls carried out by the SPF Économie. As a result of these checks, you had a consultation with representatives of the funeral sector. You then informed me that you would be waiting for his proposals for greater transparency in the offer for sale and in the indication of prices and for a clear order form. In addition, you also asked for an explanation of price developments in recent years. Minister, six months later, did you have a return to your various requests? Did the sector provide you with its proposals and explanations? If so, can you tell us? If not, have you set him a new deadline? Which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u73	The combined question No. Mr Cassart-Mailleux's 22019 lapses as she is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Winckel, I have indeed asked the industry for an explanation of the rise in prices there – which is well above inflation. Professional organizations also asked funeral directors about this significant increase of 16%. The figures obtained led them to conclude that several factors explain such an increase. First of all, the number of cremations is growing. Religious services, on the other hand, are declining. The number of morgues is also decreasing. As a result, funeral directors invest in funeral homes. In addition, the provision of services is increasingly integrated. I had also asked the SPF Economy to look more closely at this tariff evolution of funerals. The commissioned study shows that it is comparable to that seen in France and the Netherlands, although it is higher than that observed in Germany. Furthermore, it is important to note that the margins in this sector remained stable between 2007 and 2015. Two weeks ago, my firm received a proposal from the sector for a clearer tariff indication. It will be discussed in more detail with its representatives in the near future. Several labels have already been applied. However, one of the problems is that consumers do not always understand the scope correctly. The companies to which a label is granted should of course comply with the conditions, but I am not convinced that this is always the case or that the authority which grants them ensures sufficient controls. Thus, a false sense of protection can be created in the consumer. I will discuss all this in more detail with industry representatives, hoping for results for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u75	Minister, thank you. I understand the factors that have been advanced to explain this price increase. As you said, prices in Belgium are higher than those in Germany. It is therefore not all that justifies this price increase, which is still significant. You did not explain the proposals put on the table by the sector. It would be wise for me to come back to the matter once you have been able to discuss it. Still it is that acting on better customer information – we are all likely to become – and on better price transparency would be interesting. I will therefore allow myself to return to the subject once you have had your discussion with the representatives of the sector. Is this going to be good in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u76	Before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u78	A summer to look forward to, colleague Winckel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u79	Mr. Crusnière is in the house, but he's not answering his phone. Maybe the PS group can try contacting him again. We shall have his question No. Two hundred and seventy-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven. If he shows up later, he can still ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u80	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, on the occasion of a recent communication to the media, you have announced your wish to introduce a medical authorisation prior to the use of solar benches. In practical terms, it would be a question of increasing the awareness of citizens of the real danger they face to their health and of enabling doctors to advise people on their personal situation, and in particular on the type of skin. This new facility access framework is expected to be in place by 2019. In view of the important development of this dossier and your repeated commitment to act on it, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you tell us what project was reported in the media? In concrete terms, what are the contours and scope of this medical authorization you are considering? What is the status of the consultations which are or will be carried out in this case with the representation of the solar bench sector and doctors? What measures are already planned to monitor compliance with this framework under the project, as well as any related sanctions? And finally, what is the schedule for this project? Can you confirm the 2019 target as announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u81	Mr President, Mr Calomne, the Royal Decree of 24 September 2017 was published in the Belgian Monitor of 2 October 2017. It makes the conditions for the operation of a tanning centre more stringent and provides that the consumer must submit to the centre a medical certificate determining his skin type. An exception to this rule is allowed where the solar centre has a device to determine the sensitivity of the skin, and provided that the consumer is obliged to have it determined whenever he wants to use a solar bench. The findings of the Economic Inspectorate indicated that the current rules on skin type determination were massively violated by the solar centers. Something had to be done about that. The medical certificate is not a certificate for safe use. It is a document that objectively determines the skin type of a consumer. I assume that the doctor who is asked to determine the skin type will certainly point out to his patient the risks associated with the use of sunbeds. No consultation with the medical profession has yet taken place on this new obligation. I have contacted the Minister of Public Health on several occasions and I await her response. The controls of the Economic Inspectorate have been strengthened. More severe sanctions have been imposed. This policy will be pursued. The above-mentioned Order will come into force on January 1, 2019. I have a few months left to find solutions and organize everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u82	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the information. The subject is sensitive and I know that you are particularly attentive to it. We give you our full support to continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u83	Mr. President, Minister, the US private international investment company Clayton, Dubilier & Rice has entered into exclusive negotiations with D'leteren to acquire a 40% stake in their subsidiary, the Belron Group. The Belron Group is one of the world's leaders in the repair and replacement of vehicle glazing. It supports more than 15 million customers per year in 33 countries, via more than ten major brands, including Carglass. D'leteren, which has been the majority shareholder since 1999, would remain the majority shareholder at 60% of the Belron Group. The operation would be worth EUR 3 billion. In 2016, its turnover was €3.3 billion. It employs at least 25,000 people. Minister, do you think that this shareholding of the American company is a good opportunity for the multinational Belgian company D'leteren? Do you not fear that this American company may later become a majority shareholder at the disadvantage of D'leteren? Why did D'leteren seek a minority shareholder for the Belron Group? How many Belgian workers does the Belron Group employ in our territory through its various subsidiaries? Do you think that the introduction of American capital into the Belron Group is in the interests of these workers and the sustainability of their employment on Belgian soil? Do you think this will promote the Belgian economy and job creation in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u84	Mijnheer de voorzitter, collega's, Mrs Galant, in fact, since 28 November, the company D'Ieteren and the US private international investment company Clayton, Dubilier & Rice have signed a definitive agreement concerning the partnership in the Belron group, the parent company of Carglass, a subsidiary of D'Ieteren and world market leader in the repair and replacement of automotive glazing. This agreement could enable D'Ieteren to benefit from the gains of synergy and to enter new markets in new countries, thereby strengthening its market power. I do not think it is policy to intervene in negotiations between private companies. On the other hand, this acquisition by Clayton, Dubilier & Rice of a 40% stake in the Belron Group remains subject to the approval of the regulatory and competition authorities. D'Ieteren would retain decision-making power in Belron with 60% shareholding. It appears that the Belron Group operates in Belgium under the Carglass brand but has other brands such as Safelite in the United States, Autoglass for other countries, notably in France and the United Kingdom. In terms of employment and turnover, it turns out that the Belron Group is active in 33 countries, employs nearly 26,340 people and generated a turnover of almost 3.305 billion euros in 2016. For the Belgian side, Carglass employs 717 workers and the turnover reached nearly 213.3 million euros in 2016, according to the annual accounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u85	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u86	Mr President, thank you for agreeing to postpone my question. I was retained on two other commissions. Minister, recently, the House passed a bill that allows, among other things, for extending the scope of mortgage credit to the acquisition or renovation of inland vessels. Therefore, the applicant acquirer can apply for a mortgage credit for this type of housing as it would for a "traditional" housing. However, it would appear that banks are relatively reluctant to grant this type of credit; the reasons given are diverse. Some banks invoke technical problems resulting in computer impossibility. Others agree to grant a mortgage for real estate purposes but then claim an additional mortgage. All this is not ideal and puts a brake on the granting of barges as housing. Minister, could you please take another look at this legislation and its application? Have you had the same kind of indication about bank reluctance? What solutions could you bring to ensure that banks do not hide behind futile pretexts to refuse these loans?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u87	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, it is clear that the new law on mortgage credit makes it possible to enter into a mortgage with a real estate destination also for barges. Previously, they were often financed from consumer credits. Despite the new provision, it must be noted that there are not yet specific credit products for barges. According to Febelfin, this is due to various reasons. The development of such a product is particularly complex, both legally and economically. The transportability of the property, the limited demand and the difficulty of valuing the value are other important aspects that make the development of such credits less attractive. This does not mean, however, that no lender would grant credit for a barge, if only in a slightly different way. According to Febelfin, the houseboat credit is often granted, for example, with a guarantee on another real estate. Indeed, a lender must ensure that the credit it resumes in its portfolio is sufficiently secured in the event of repayment difficulties. On the other hand, the housing bonus scheme and the related tax benefit do not apply to these credits for barges, thus reducing interest in such products. If demand for such products were higher, banks would be more likely to have a specific formula.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u88	Minister, thank you. These demands remain marginal compared to mortgage credit, but we should be concerned about this situation. The solution of giving another property as a mortgage guarantee remains a solution but it is not always possible in the case of young people. I have been contacted by young people who have chosen this way of life but since they are not owners of other property, they are really stuck. It would be good if some thought were given to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u89	Minister, when you answered the questions about your Economics policy paper in this committee on 29 November 2017, you mentioned the planned short-chain investments in the circular economy. An amount of EUR 250 000 would be released. I have a few questions about that. Are the initiatives that you will support already fully established, or is there still room for additional initiatives? If so, how can candidate companies or initiatives still apply? Given the limited amount, I also wonder how many initiatives will be eligible. How long will you support it? Is it a first phase of a long-term vision or a one-off budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u90	Can you surprise Mr Detiège again, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u91	I try every time, Mr President, but I don't think I can do it every time. Mrs Detiège, since the start of this legislature, sustainable economy has been an important pillar of my economic policy. Sustainable economy takes into account all social and environmental aspects in order to meet today's needs without preventing future generations from meeting their own needs. Any consumer, undertaking or public institution may contribute to this. When agreements were made within the government last year to free up resources to develop new policies, I decided, among other things, to free up, in addition to strengthening the Economic Inspectorate, resources to strengthen short-chain policies. This policy is aimed at local businesses and consumers in order to be able to purchase local products in their own surroundings. As you know, the essence of the short-chain policy is that people look for the necessary products in the vicinity and thus limit the ecological footprint. That is why we have decided to support, in a first phase, the Support Point Hoeveproducten, which cooperates with various actors in this policy area. This is currently a first phase within the launch of a long-term vision and sustainable economy policy. If opportunities remain in the future, I will continue to develop and strengthen this policy area in order to work with as many actors as possible. So it's not just a one-time thing, it's something that's being pulled through. In the first instance, we gave the Support Center Hoeveproducten the necessary support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u92	Thank you for the answer, Minister. I suspect that this year it will remain with that project, but that there will be new opportunities in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u93	Minister, I am sorry to have to ask this question, as I am a great supporter of electric cars. A test carried out by European consumer organisations shows that certain popular models of electric cars have 40% less driving range than is stated in the catalogue. The range of driving to which the producers refer is measured by the standardized New European Driving Cycle (NEDC). In this measurement method, Audi A6s shall be placed on a dynamometer without passengers or luggage. Lights, air conditioning, radio and GPS are off during that test. According to Test-Achats, but I also assume according to other organisations, it is logical that a laboratory situation cannot be compared to the reality on the road. That's why they tested the three models themselves in a realistic traffic situation. Automotive Federation FEBIAC was not set up with that investigation and pointed out that the official consumption test NEDC, with which the comparison was made in the investigation, is highly outdated and has already been replaced. In response to this in the press, you said that you would argue for transparency so that the user knows what the realistic range for electric cars is pending the general application of a better test method. Mr President, first of all, what do you mean by transparency? Secondly, according to the Automotive Federation FEBIAC, a new test method already exists. What test method are we talking about? Does it take into account a realistic traffic situation? Thirdly, it is important that the data in the catalogues are consistent with reality, so that consumers can make the right decision when they purchase them. Will you ensure that there is an accelerated general test method, which does measure the correct driving range? By when? Finally, will you oblige producers to indicate the realistic driving range in their catalogue? What will you do with the misleading catalogues? Forty percent less driving range than mentioned in the catalogue is a particularly high percentage. You're gonna have those catalogs removed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u94	Mr President, I am not going to elaborate on my question in full, since various points have already been raised by my colleague. Mr Minister, I would like to go back to this study conducted by Test-Achats, where three brands of electric cars were analysed: Renault, Opel and Nissan. Following a precise and relevant methodology – several itineraries, the same climatic conditions, the same number of passengers, etc. – the tests showed that the three car brands did not really have the autonomy capabilities exposed by the manufacturers in question. On average, the actual autonomys observed in the tests were more than 40% lower. Mr Minister, manufacturers are subject to the European Union regulation as regards the calculation of the autonomy of electric cars called NEDC. This calculation is based on conditions completely outside reality, without passengers, without luggage,... Do you not think that under these conditions the calculation of autonomy is therefore biased? In this context, do you also agree with the introduction of the new WLTP calculation system? How will it be more in line with reality? In terms of consumer protection, the problem lies in advertising campaigns which cannot be described as otherwise false, on the autonomy of electric vehicles. Does your administration have data on consumer complaints about this issue? Have you ever thought, in the interests of transparency of consumption, of introducing new regulatory measures to protect the consumer? Can you also remind us of the sales of electric cars in Belgium annually? How is it evolving?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u95	Mr Minister, I am not at all in favour of electric cars, precisely because of the lying tests and the production and recycling of batteries, which are not environmentally friendly. However, that may change. The autonomy of electric cars could be a decisive factor in their purchase. No driver wants to stop on his way to an appointment with his car. The price is also important and as long as electric cars cost more than 40 000 or 50 000 euros, ordinary people will not be able or willing to buy electric cars. Correct information to the consumer is important. My question is actually about this. The tests are not consistent with the reality in which these cars run. Mr. Secretary, how do you assess the study of Test Purchasing? Do you think that the NEDC test should be changed? If so, how should that happen? Are you planning measures against manufacturers who, on the one hand, unpack with the official tests and, on the other hand, indicate in the small print that actual consumption may differ considerably from the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u96	I hope, Mr President, that I will be able to answer the many questions. The data in the current catalogues are based on the official NEDC test method, to which reference has just been made. It seems clear to me that I cannot have the catalogues removed. However, since 1 September 2017, the method for new models has been replaced by the more realistic WLTP test method. From 1 September 2018, all cars will show more realistic values. Nevertheless, due to the specificity of electric cars, differences with those values may still occur, for example at cold outdoor temperatures, which also affect the battery. The question of testing methods is followed by the Minister of Mobility, but there is a better understanding of the new WLPT test method, which mimics a realistic situation in the laboratory, resulting in more realistic figures. A screening of the websites of the vehicles tested by Test-Achats shows that there is a large difference in transparency between the brands concerned as regards the impact of different factors on the actual range of driving. Some websites give little information, others even offer a simulator to indicate the impact of average speeds and the outdoor temperature on the driving range. Although the Economic Inspectorate has so far received no complaint about the misleading nature of the declared autonomy of electric cars, I have asked FEBIAC to exchange good practices and to provide very clear information for consumers, both through websites, leaflets and advertising messages as well as in showrooms. FEBIAC has promised me to do what is necessary and we will monitor it. Ms Galant, the number of 100% electric vehicles registered in Belgium increased from 1,166 in 2014 to 2,083 in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it's very positive. Apparently, it is now unanimously recognised that the previous test did not reflect reality. In addition, an alternative test method is now available, which would be used since 1 December. From when would the new measurement results be included in the catalogues? From September 1st 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u98	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u99	Then what happens in the interim period? Such a car is expensive. It is believed that it can last four hours. Turns out it's only two o'clock. Then they've made a miscarriage. What are they doing with that? That's tricky.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u100	(...) From 1 September 2018, the value must be indicated, including for the consumer. We have not yet received any complaints about the interim period. The question is how big the percentage of consumers facing the problem is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u101	Thank you for the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u102	Thank you, Minister. I'm glad to see that we're really considering improving test methods. It is true that, in view of these great differences in results, we do not, as Mr Janssens has said, want to buy an electric vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u103	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I speak in my own name now. We would better use the existing subsidies for electric cars for natural gas cars. They are also very environmentally friendly and affordable, including for ordinary consumers. In the future hydrogen is likely to be the solution. It is very expensive at the moment, but I believe that we have been lit up by a lobby to get all the people to drive electric.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u104	I thought you always spoke in your own name, but you didn't?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u105	Président: Werner Janssen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u106	Mr President, Minister, last year we discussed the draft law to extend ten-year liability insurance in construction to contractors. Prior to that, liability insurance was only compulsory for the architect. In recent years there has been some commotion about the limitation to the architect. Among other things, there was a ruling by the Constitutional Court, which had already stated in 2007 that better protection could be offered to the builder. This resulted in the draft law adopted here last year. The new law entered into force on 1 July 2018. In order to limit the cost to the consumer in the extended liability regime, it was decided to limit the coverage of compulsory insurance to the solidity, stability and waterproofness of windproof rough construction. It is reported that there is a fear on the ground that, despite the reduction in coverage, the cost will increase by at least 3% to 4%. It calls for attention to be paid to the possible increase in costs and their impact on the construction sector. Mr President, first of all, are you aware that the cost could increase? How will the increase be further monitored after the entry into force of the Act on 1 July 2018? During the discussion of the draft law in plenary, as well as in committee, a great deal of attention was paid to the fear of an increase in costs. You also felt that we should limit this as much as possible. Secondly, compulsory insurance can be undertaken either in the form of an annual policy or in the form of a policy per project. Do you have any idea which insurance companies would like to offer these policies? Thirdly, are you in favour of having this law reviewed by, among other things, the Insurance Committee after its entry into force? If so, when could the evaluation take place? Finally, Minister Ducarme's policy paper shows that in about 30 years the number of new intellectual professions in the construction sector has increased sharply. Think of the many engineers, auditors and project managers. They act, not always but often, on the side of the architect. They also have no insurance obligation in these situations, although they often assume a reasonable responsibility in the overall package of construction. Minister Ducarme's policy paper therefore referred to possible further steps in generalising that compulsory liability insurance. What is your view, Minister? What is the current state of affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u107	Mr President, Mr Smaers, as I said in this committee when discussing the draft, there is a cost to every insurance policy. However, I can assure you that if there is a case of damage, the cost will be much higher than this insurance. We have kept the size just as small to give the market the chance to get familiar with this product and to make the price setting conform. After entry into force, it is good to see how the market reacts. If so, we can have an analysis done by the Prize Observatory after a year. This may also be interesting to see if the insurance can be extended in the future. Secondly, both types of policies will be offered on the insurance market. This was a demand from the insurance sector because the preference varies from company to company. I haven't done any research to determine which society will offer what form. A choice was left between the two forms. For me, it is important that everyone is insured, regardless of the kind of policy. Thirdly, all new measures must be evaluated some time after their entry into force. I see Mr Lachaert is gone. As usual, I will submit any adjustments for advice to the Committee on Insurance. However, this committee will not be the only body to discuss the law. The opinion of other stakeholders, such as the construction sector and my administration, will also be important. However, let us give the law time to enter into force before we start evaluating them. Finally, an additional law, more specifically for the actors of intangible performance, is in fact under way. For that project my colleague Ducarme takes the lead. I understand that he is currently taking the necessary advice before having this project completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u108	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that after the entry into force the market must be looked at and the market must be allowed to play its role. I also understand that you will have evaluations made soon. The cost calculation by the Price Observatory is also a good suggestion. I would certainly like to draw attention to the possibility or not of extending the regulatory framework. We need to take a very close look at these first. I understand from your reply that Minister Ducarme is taking the lead in this matter and that any questions should be put to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u109	Mr Minister, I asked you a question earlier about the price of a hearing aid, which is something that more and more people are asking for, on the one hand, because of the ageing of the population, on the other hand because of the more sophisticated models available by current technology. The price difference with respect to the Netherlands has decreased, but it remains significant. The concession of the RIZIV in conflicted audiciens reduces the difference, but does not completely eliminate it. Consequently, consumers continue to shop across borders, even though they have the same suppliers of hearing aids. Mr President, where does the price difference between the aircraft in Belgium and the Netherlands come from? The RIZIV provides for a refund, but it could be lower if the purchase price is reduced. Do you agree with me that a reduction in the purchase price could mean cost savings for the government? What measures will you take to bring the price of hearing aids more in line with that in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u110	Minister, the cost of hearing aids comes back regularly in the public debate because they are still considered too expensive. Indeed, in about half of the cases, the price is the first obstacle to their purchase by persons with disabilities. Quotes have been published and show that the cost can range from 1,150 euros to 2,430 euros per ear. As we know, hearing loss affects more and more people, from younger to older, and is sometimes irreversible. As a result, the price of these devices must be more affordable. In 2015, you insisted on federal control in order to fix the price of these devices on the Belgian market and actually reduce it. Minister, are these checks always carried out on a regular basis? How many were achieved in 2017? Have you conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of this regulation since it came into force? Depending on your response, what are your future intentions to continue price control? Have the controls carried out by your administration actually reduced the cost of hearing aids? Is their impact on prices quantifiable? Do you think this price is still too high? On average, how many of these devices are sold annually in Belgium and at what price?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Klaps and Mr Galant, the price regulation of hearing aids that entered into force on 1 July 2014 stipulates that all hearing aids on the Belgian market before 1 July 2014 must be authorised on maximum prices. Furthermore, the price regulation also provides for a price check for all new hearing aids placed on the Belgian market from 1 July 2014. Following that price regulation, decisions were taken on the maximum prices for a total of two thousand types of existing hearing aids sold on the Belgian market by a dozen distributors. The overall fall in prices at wholesale level for distributors is on average 20%. Since 1 July 2014, all new hearing aids not sold on the Belgian market on that date have also been subject to price control. In total, there are currently 13 distributors on the Belgian market with six different major brands, representing around 90% of sales. About 1 500 new types of hearing aids were admitted to maximum prices. This data is available until July 2017. It should be noted, however, that this is important to note that some wholesale prices of the distributors are subject to the price regulation which falls within my competence and for which maximum prices are therefore set. Those prices, requested by wholesalers/distributors, shall be increased by the amounts requested by the audiciens for their performance not covered by the price control. The part of the prizes for the hearing aids charged by the audiologist for his fee is therefore not within my competence as Minister of Economy, but under the responsibility of the Minister responsible for the RIZIV. The Minister for Social Affairs also has responsibility for reimbursement and the conditions for reimbursement. I repeat that only the wholesale prices of distributors are subject to price regulation. However, the maximum wholesale prices, i.e. the sales prices of the distributors under my jurisdiction, are still fixed for all new hearing aids sold on the Belgian market. The longer term objective is also to reduce the final prices that patients have to pay. The data provided to me by the General Directorate of Economic Analyses and International Economy show that the evolution of consumer prices of hearing aids is as follows: compared to the average price in force in 2013, the consumer price of a hearing aid in November 2017 is 2.3 % less high. However, I do not have any information on the exact number of hearing aids currently sold on the Belgian market. In reply to Mr Klaps' question about the reason for the price difference between the devices in Belgium and the Netherlands, it should be noted that there is a large range of models of hearing aids and that one model of hearing aids is not always comparable to the other model of hearing aids. So you must be careful in that regard. It should also be noted that since January 2013, the selection protocol Hoorzorg has been in operation in the Netherlands. The hearing problem of the patient/consumer is classified into one of the five categories included in the protocol by means of a standardised questionnaire and a number of hearing tests in the audience. It goes from category 1 for the simple hearing problems to category 5 for the most complex problems. The hearing aids are also classified in those five categories. A hearing aid is paid in full only if the audience has signed a contract with the health insurance provider and if the audience proposes to the patient/consumer a device of his category. The various contracts concluded by health insurance companies with the audience companies and which may differ between insurers may vary the price for one and the same hearing aid in the Netherlands, depending on the insurer and the audience. We have therefore taken the necessary steps at wholesale level. I have also given you an explanation of the prices for the consumer/patient and the way in which the Netherlands has dealt with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u112	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I understand, of course, that there is a difference between wholesale and retail and that you do not have control over everything. Nevertheless, there seems to be a problem, apart from the Dutch insurance situation. When a Fleming crosses the border, he is not covered by the healthcare system in the Netherlands. In my view, if he can still get substantially cheaper aircraft like this one there, there is something going on in the sector concerned. With the opticians you have agreed a code of conduct to achieve a more logical way of doing business. I suggest you take a look at whether you could do the same with the audience. This can of course be done in consultation with your colleague De Block. The signals I continue to receive indicate that there are still substantial price differences which cannot be explained. Moreover, these margins are partly passed on to the RIZIV and therefore also involve additional costs for the government. So I guess there's still work to be done here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u113	Minister, thank you for your explanation. I am pleased to see that the controls you have carried out at wholesalers have helped to reduce prices. We will look to your colleague to see if an initiative is possible regarding retailers. Using hearing aids is really not luxury, even if you know how expensive it is!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u114	Minister, recent statistics from the SPF Economy have shown that the sector most affected by bankruptcies is automobiles, in particular, trade and car repair. In October 2017, 262 bankruptcies were counted, one more than in September of the same year, but fifty more than last year for the same period. The Federation of the Automotive Sector (TRAXIO) explains this increase by three factors. First of all, the tendency of customers to turn to large dealers or specialists to get an ever more sophisticated car. Secondly, because today the guarantees are always longer. Finally, logically, because the number of accidents has been steadily decreasing in recent years. As a result, SMEs/independents are experiencing tough times and have to adapt to increasingly modern cars, and this is becoming more and more rapid. So, Minister, can you provide us with an overview of the economic situation in the garage industry? Since the beginning of the legislature, how many auto repair businesses have closed their doors? Is this trend going to be accentuated or is it a cyclical period? What do you think are the main reasons and explanatory factors for such a development? Why is this sector particularly affected when, at the same time, we are seeing an increase in sales in the Belgian car market? The government has always taken the interest of SMEs and self-employed people into great consideration. Do you consider it important that this sector should be encouraged to adapt to new constraints and consumption patterns? If so, how do you intend to proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Galant, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the figures reported in the context of your question shed light on the monthly number of bankruptcies throughout sector G of the NACE Code 2018 on trade in and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles. Section G consists of three divisions: 45 - "Trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles"; 46 - " Wholesale trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles"; 47 - "Retail trade, except for motor vehicles and motorcycles". In these three divisions, there were 262 cases of bankruptcy in October 2017. Only Division 45 relates to the question asked. There were 36 bankruptcies in October 2017. Your first question: the overall state of play of the division 45 sector of the NACE 2018 code, drawn up by the SME Observatory on the basis of official data from be.STAT, shows that 24,613 companies subject to VAT were active in 2016. In the same year, 1,903 enterprises were created and 1,266 enterprises were written off. The proxy for the garage sector is equivalent to group 45.2 "Car maintenance and repair" of NACE 2008 code. In this group, there were 10,754 active enterprises, 836 established enterprises and 533 cancelled enterprises. The number of bankruptcies in the sector "Trade and repair of cars and motorcycles" since the beginning of the 54th Parliament of the Belgian House of Representatives (June 2014) decreases year by year from 328 in 2014 to 283 in 2016, a decrease of 13.2% over three years. There are 243 bankruptcies between January and October 2017. However, there is no particular trend for group 45.2 "Motor vehicle maintenance and repair" of the NACE 2008 code. Indeed, the evolution of bankruptcies depends heavily on the economic situation. In general, the recovery of economic growth and the number of bankruptcies are negatively correlated. With regard to your second question, the calculations made by the SME Observatory show that the gross start-up rate and that of the cessations of enterprises in the sector "Trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles" amounted respectively to 7,73 % and 5,14 % in 2016, which corresponds to a low net start-up rate of 2,59 %, probably due to the prohibitive cost of the investments to be financed. On your third question, SMEs and independent entrepreneurs play a fundamental role in the dynamics of economic growth and in the creation of shared wealth. Therefore, the government must always pay particular attention to them. We must note the loss of independence of small car dealers due to the fact that car manufacturers place increasing constraints on distributors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u116	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u117	Mr Minister, I have asked you on a regular basis about the arms test bench in Liège. To my previous written question No. 1709 replied to you: "The revenue and expenditure account is approved every quarter by the Executive Board. For this purpose, the Board uses the services of an independent company auditor. The annual revenue and expenditure account shall be sent to all arms manufacturers and the guardian minister after approval by the Executive Board.' Since you now have this information, my question is as follows. Where and when can I have access to this revenue and expenditure account?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u118	Mr Degroote, I brought you a copy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u119	That is very kind, Minister. I'll take it with me. I've waited a long time for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u120	Deputy Prime Minister, false universities regularly appear in our country. At the end of 2016, the SPF Economy identified 41 institutions not recognized by the public authorities and providing false degrees in areas as varied as aesthetics or management. Although freedom of education is enshrined in the Constitution in article 24, the absence of official recognition by the public authorities must be clearly announced by institutions of higher education which are not recognized by their pupils, which is not always the case. In addition, the amounts requested for annual registration are sometimes very high. In the public sector, such diplomas cannot be valued, whereas a private employer is free to assess the candidate's skills. Moreover, it is only possible to regulate the situation on a case-by-case basis, since not all of these "universities" offer "diploma", some of which offer only training. It is therefore not every time dishonest practices; many unrecognized establishments have their place in our country, but it is necessary to regulate this situation as quickly as possible and to clean up the sector. Do you work with the Communities to list and prosecute unrecognized educational institutions that have fraudulent practices? If so, could you take stock of the situation and give us the sectors concerned and the breakdown of these establishments by Region? Are measures to better regulate the publicity of these institutions and the clarity of information to "students" on the agenda, possibly in collaboration with the Community authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u121	My colleague, there is ongoing cooperation between the Economic Inspectorate and the competent authorities at Community level in order to detect potentially fraudulent establishments. The survey and the Economic Inspectorate cover all educational institutions using unfair commercial practices. In the meantime, it has listed 81 establishments. In some cases, the investigation has already been completely closed. In other cases, it is still in progress. These are 52 educational institutions in Brussels, 18 in Flanders and 11 in Wallonia. The provisional results of this investigation are as follows: for 14 educational institutions, no infringement is found, nine of them have ceased their activities, two files have been transmitted to the foreign supervisory authority, 46 warning reports have been drawn up and 18 institutions have settled; 17 institutions have been removed from the ECB, two websites have been made inaccessible through the removal of domain names and 10 minutes have been sent to the prosecution. In my view, the Communities are best placed to inform future students about their possibilities and to direct them to accredited educational institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u122	Mr President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for all his replies and for the figures provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u123	Mr. Secretary, until what time do you wish to continue working?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u124	Until 5:00 p.m., but out of respect I still want to answer the questions of the people who are still here, unless they are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u125	What do my fellow Members propose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u126	That is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u127	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u128	Questions Nos 22593, 23161, 23162 and 23374 by Mrs Isabelle Galant and Question No 22820 by Mr Calomne are transformed into written questions. Mrs. Smaers, do you have any questions in this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u129	Yes, no. 23433.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u130	Would you like to ask them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u132	Or do you want to convert them into a written question? The Minister would like to stop at 5:00 p.m. Can your question be converted into a written question or may it be postponed for a further round of questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u133	When will that next round take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u134	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u135	I think the Minister will not return until early March.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u136	Then my question No. 23433 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic813x.u137	I also put my questions Nos 23079, 23421 and 23422 in written questions. The other are merged questions, which are simply postponed.
