ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u1	Minister, the newspaper L'Echo of December 16, 2017 tells us that the DEME group has not abandoned the idea of building an artificial island at sea to store electricity, relying on the fact that, as for offshore, prices are decreasing and that other activities, such as aquaculture, could be developed on this island. Have you, again, been consulted on this subject? The article also talks about the idea of connecting to the island the single catch that will bring electricity back from the next wind farms in the North Sea. What is your position as Minister of Energy on the usefulness of such a project, and its connection to the single market? Have any new contacts with CREG been made in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u2	Your question is extremely concise, Mr Nollet, and I congratulate you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u3	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor to answer this question. I take this opportunity to express my best wishes for health, happiness and success for 2018, to all members of the commission and to those who follow our work. My answer to this question is also concise. First, no application files have recently been submitted to my administration for this project and no informal contact has been made. Secondly, the one-off catch at sea is currently only planned for the connection of the last offshore wind farms. For the last two questions, I invite you to address my honourable colleague, the Secretary of State in charge of the North Sea, Philippe De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u4	Madam Minister, thank you. It's Mr. From Backer who has to answer questions about contact with CREG? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u5	If you don't mind, I'll check your question: "What is your position on the usefulness of such a project and its connection to the single take? Have new contacts with CREG been initiated in this regard?" I guess it depends on question 3, related to the competence of the Secretary of State for the North Sea. As far as CREG is concerned, I have no contact with my DG and no position on the usefulness of such a project and its link to the single take, with respect to concessions falling within the competence of the Secretary of State for the North Sea. Subsequently, contact with CREG has no reason to be. Unless there's something. But as for me, there's nothing... that's the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u6	Mr President, I take note of the fact that the minister has no position on the usefulness of such a project while she is Minister for Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u7	Minister, where are you at in the reflection and possible establishment in Belgium of a Capacity Remuneration Mechanism (CRM)? Have you taken a position on principle? Is it useful, necessary, unavoidable, superfluous, dangerous or otherwise? What are you doing in your pre-demarcation with the European Union on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u8	Mr President, as I have already announced on several occasions, an external market was launched by DG Energy in the summer of 2017 in order to determine the most appropriate remuneration mechanism for the Belgian context (item 1 of this market) and to prepare all the documents for its implementation (item 2 of that market). This contract was launched on a precautionary basis. Indeed, long preparation work for a CRM must be undertaken before it can possibly be implemented on instructions from the government. The offer submitted jointly by PwC and Janson Baugniet was accepted. Work is under way. The first results will be discussed with the European Commission, which will be the case in the very short term, before the official launch of item 2. The work on Item 1 already allows me to start discussions and an exchange with the European Commission, which I will do shortly. My position on setting up a CRM is as follows. First of all, in my personal capacity, I have always considered this useful. On the other hand, functionally, I have to prepare the regulatory framework that will allow us to deal with the capacity deficit that we might encounter, as soon as we leave nuclear power, and that will support the investments that will replace this exit. The Government will decide, on the basis of the results of the contract awarded to PwC and Janson Baugniet and on the basis of the information available to it, whether or not it is appropriate to set up this mechanism as envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u9	Minister, I take note of the fact that item 1 has been completed and that you are going to discuss it with the Commission in the near future. For position 2, what is the time limit in the appeal that was initiated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u10	In any case, this comes after because it is linked to the preparation of all the implementation documents. We must first position ourselves on the concept, on what is envisaged and how it is envisaged. This will obviously go through the European Commission's filter and evolve before returning to the government. After all this, we'll launch position 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u11	Do you have a timing? Six months? A year? I guess that's specified in the call for tenders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u12	I guess so, but I can't answer you. I'll ask the question. We'll send you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u13	Madam Minister, as I have had the opportunity to tell you, and although little is known in Belgium, the Luxembourg Government has decided to respond firmly to the Belgian decision - taken in spite of common sense - to extend the life of certain nuclear power plants. To that end, it had prepared a draft law on civil liability in the event of a nuclear accident. Inspired by Austrian law, the Luxembourg Government courageously assumed its will to send a clear anti-nuclear signal to its neighbours. In your opinion, will this project not force Belgian operators to review their insurance contracts? That would be, to my liking at least, a good thing. The Luxembourg Government held a press conference on 12 January, highlighting the importance of a project to visualize the real costs of nuclear power, to materialise the financial risk of a nuclear accident on the part of the operator - taking into account not only material and physical damage, but also environmental and immaterial damage - and to increase the pressure in the fight against nuclear power and to provide better legal security for Luxembourg citizens. In our previous discussion on the subject, you indicated that you did not intend - at any time at the time - to take any steps towards your Grand-Ducal counterparts. When you know that the state is the (re)insurer of nuclear power, how will you take into account the justified evolution of the Luxembourg legal framework now deposited?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u14	Mr Nollet, on several occasions I have had the opportunity to discuss the issue of nuclear civil liability with you. Your last question was on December 8, 2017. It is therefore recent. I had the opportunity to transfer the written answer to you, since you had asked for your questions to be turned into written questions. In this context, I was telling you that I obviously left you with the full responsibility for your analysis of the legis ratio, the reason for the existence of the law, in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, concerning nuclear civil liability. I would also like to reiterate that the Belgian State is neither the insurer nor the reinsurer of the operators of nuclear installations in Belgium. A State guarantee is not an insurance if, in the event of a call for a guarantee, we have already experienced it in the banking sector, in the end, the State is entitled to reimbursement of its intervention. Moreover, the State guarantee covers only the obligations arising from articles 10/1 and 22 of the Act of 22 July 1985 which is the basic law on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy. It is a strictly defined guarantee as to its object and amount. I would like once again to refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Finance, whose responsibilities fall under the Royal Decree of 10 December 2017 establishing a programme for the guarantee of civil liability (that is, a guarantee and not insurance or reinsurance) for civil liability in the field of nuclear energy, published in the Belgian Monitor of 10 December 2017 and to the answer I made to your question No 22449 mentioned above. I can tell you that my services are particularly familiar with insurance contracts covering the liability of operators of nuclear installations in Belgium. They are also aware of the constraints and requirements placed on them to respond to the demands of the relevant legislation in Belgium, which is in line with the international instruments to which Belgium is a party. On this subject, I would refer you to the exchange that we have had since the beginning, in committee, with regard to Belgian legislation and its conformity with international instruments. We started this exchange when we addressed, as I recall, the issue of civil nuclear liability in Belgium in January 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u15	Minister, I will raise two things. Firstly, you do not answer the question of whether insurance contracts will be affected by developments, not by Belgian legislation, because it is obvious that insurance will necessarily take it into account, but by Luxembourg legislation. Secondly, I am fully aware that, for the first 1.2 billion, this is a guarantee. The stakes are not here. The stakes are as follows: when a nuclear disaster occurs, the damage far exceeds that amount. In Fukushima, the sum is more than 400 billion euros. If an accident occurs in Belgium, this part will be directly or indirectly responsible for public finances. We know the consequences of such an accident. Imagine this happening in Antwerp or Tihange, in the region of Liège. The economic consequences would be much greater than in Fukushima or Chernobyl. It is this part that I refer to when I refer to the fact that the state is an insurer or a reinsurer. Beyond the guarantee it gives for the first 1.2 billion, nothing is foreseen to cover the liability of the operators. I regret that, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u16	Minister, this issue was tabled on January 11, when the press revealed that, as part of a study on the energy pact, you had asked to consider the construction of a nuclear power plant. This has since been denied by the government. Minister, have you asked to consider this scenario? What are the reasons for such a request, knowing that the law does not allow it? What was the budget for this costing study? Has there been a competition through several offers? What are the deadlines set by the government for the study and for the adoption of the Energy Pact? Can the mission letter and/or the terms of reference for the study be obtained?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u17	Madam Minister, despite the various studies presented in committee and your assertions that you could "present several scenarios" regarding the release of nuclear energy, since this option caused an increase in CO2 and the cost of energy, your government still wants to encrypt the Energy Pact before lifting the blockage that you have imposed on all your partners. I can understand that you want to have your own numbers, but I'm quite surprised that you're only doing it now, when you've been in office for three and a half years. Such an awareness makes me think more of a long hidden agenda than of an unexpected discovery of the basic principles of good governance. Should I remind you of the episode of the Atoma book that followed some negotiations? So we learned from the press that you called on Professor Albrecht of the University of Ghent to encrypt your Energy Compact project. I recognize that he is a high-quality scientist, but I have a few questions to ask you. Minister, what has been the method of designation and what will be the final cost of this study? The press announced a figure of 100,000 euros, which you overturned to communicate the figure of 25,000 euros. Is this last amount final? Is this the total cost of his mission? Why did you choose a single expert and not a scientific committee for this very important impact encryption? Professor Albrecht recently released a book on the energy transition. The latter presents several scenarios, most of which conclude that electricity prices and CO2 emissions are rising, at least in the short term. Do you really think his conclusions will be different? In the very probable case where Professor Albrecht confirms his previous results, will you still maintain the release of nuclear power by 2025? Let me turn to my second question. Minister, we heard from the House on January 11 that you were planning to analyze the possibility of building a new nuclear power plant in 2040. When asked on this point, the Prime Minister preferred a guilty silence to the opposition's questions rather than a clear and precise answer. We subsequently learned that a scenario also involving the extension of the entire Belgian nuclear fleet was under consideration. According to your reactions in the press as well as those from sources close to the government, these scenarios would only exist to feed your scientific curiosity, so there is no question of leaving the framework of the government agreement that is planning to exit nuclear power by 2025. I have to admit, I'm not entirely reassured. The last time the Prime Minister said he wouldn't let anyone torpedo the Energy Pact, we saw what it gave us. Minister, tired of having to decrypt the various often contradictory information that I can read in the press, I would like you to make a clear statement about the progress of your work. Can you list and briefly describe all the scenarios under consideration? Among these, can you distinguish those who are seriously considered from those who are purely theoretical and used as points of comparison? With regard to the scenario involving the construction of a new power plant, what assumptions are made in terms of power, site, cost, manufacturer, period of construction, date of commissioning? In the purely theoretical scenario involving the extension of nuclear power, is a paragraph also devoted to the repeal of the 2003 Act? Do you think that it is the government's responsibility to enter into assumptions that are no longer relevant since they are in a text?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u18	Mr President, my first question relates to the study, while the other concerns the timetable. Madam Minister, as is well known, one of the majority's partners has demanded further quantitative studies before taking a position on the Energy Pact - which has been concluded between all energy ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u19	Mr Nollet, I had allowed myself to use "cacophony" as a key word, but you can use the term "study".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u20	Mr. President, take the key word that suits you best.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u21	No problem, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u22	As the press has not failed to point out, and as the President has just pointed out, this has been a major stumbling block in your government last Friday with regard to the precise content and scope of the study undertaken. I would like to take this opportunity to allow you, once and for all, Madam Minister, to clarify this important issue. In this sense, I formulated my questions as precisely as possible, so that you would answer me clearly. In the January 13 edition of La Libre Belgique, you confirmed that this calculation of the scenario for the construction of a power plant was included in your proposals, but that this was not your original idea. Has the costing of the construction of a new nuclear power plant been initially proposed in Kern? If so, by whom was such an encryption requested? The same newspaper notes that at least initially, you announced that, despite the development of this calculation, it would not be presented to the select departmental committee. This is very interesting: we produce studies, but without communicating the results... What was the original mandate of Professor Albrecht and the Planning Office in this area? Did it include a costed presentation of the construction of this nuclear power plant? What about it? Does Professor Albrecht's mandate aim to quantify the construction of a nuclear power plant? If so, will this calculation be proposed to Kern or will it remain in the hands of the Minister of Energy - his cabinet and/or his administration - for his personal intellectual building? I would also like you to be able to clarify the content of the other questions submitted to Professor Albrecht and the Planning Office and to provide us with a copy of the terms of the missions entrusted to them, as my colleagues have requested. When, at the end of the Council of Ministers on Friday, 12 January, the Prime Minister states that the framework for this study remains within the limits of what was decided in the government agreement, it can be assumed that no scenario will analyse the extension of the current nuclear power plants beyond 2025. Is this reasoning correct? If not, what are the scenarios that will be analyzed and those that will not? Will the amounts required for the construction of a new nuclear power plant be included in the study requested, so that they can be used as a basis for comparison, as you stated when you excluded these elements from the document even without being the subject of a scenario? On what date must Professor Albrecht have submitted his study? By what date should the Office of the Plan have submitted its study? How are the respective contributions of the Planning Office and Professor Albrecht articulated? By what procedure has Professor Albrecht been appointed? A colleague has already asked this question. What is the amount at stake? A colleague also said so. The last question is very important to me: does the period taken into account for the calculation run well up to 2050 or is it limited to a shorter period? In the second case, which one? Because, of course, the results can be biased by taking into account only the period up to 2035. As the issues are linked, I am now developing those concerning the Energy Pact timetable. De Standaard newspaper announced on Tuesday 16 January that an agreement had been reached within the government to postpone the Energy Pact to post-election negotiations in 2019, the decision to release nuclear power in 2025. Surprise! Astonishment! Further modification of the agenda. Do you confirm that? If this is not the case, can you commit yourself to having this decision decided in the pact being finalized? You said in the newspaper Le Soir that in a few weeks everything would be in a position to be decided. What have you put in place since then? How has the file progressed since the N-VA blocked? In another context, you mentioned a meeting of energy ministers even before the end of the year. Did it happen? What does it show? When will you be able to bring the complete file back to the agenda of Kern and the government? What is your timetable for finalizing the Energy Pact? What are the steps to be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u23	Madam Minister, a great deal has already been said by my fellow Members and I would just like to reiterate that the N-VA was clearly not satisfied with the conclusion of the Energy Pact. Apparently, she had hoped that you would not succeed. However, you did succeed, but the N-VA immediately collapsed. In order to meet the N-VA, you have now ordered a new study from the Federal Planning Office and Professor Albrecht, but only one study, which needs to provide a better basis for the energy pact. As my fellow Members have already said, it is somewhat strange that this happens afterwards. Actually, that had to have happened in advance. On the other hand, of course, there are already a lot of studies. All the studies on the table today, both by Professor Albrecht and by the Planning Bureau, EnergyVille, Elia and those of the environmental movement, give figures of about the same order of magnitude. We are therefore somewhat surprised that new figures are still being measured, apart from the fact that the cost of a new nuclear power plant must also be calculated. Madam Secretary, can you clarify how the study was awarded? Why, for example, couldn't the Planning Office alone compare all the studies that are already on the table and make the choices that politics has to make clearer? Why did you have to add a new study? What is the cost of the study? In the press, we've read certain sums. Can you confirm that? What is the precise assignment given to the Planning Bureau and to Professor Albrecht? What research questions will they deal with correctly? Are there new scenarios or will they put the existing scenarios next to each other? What about the scenario of building a new nuclear power plant? You have already stated that it is merely a theoretical and scientific exercise. How much does that piece of scientific practice cost? If this is not done, what is the purpose of the study on the construction of the new nuclear power station? Mr Nollet also asked what time horizon will be worked on? The current studies run almost all until 2030, while Professor Albrecht himself, for example, in his study, points out that in a horizon up to 2040, for example, the nuclear scenario will probably not come out cheapest. So it is very important that a time horizon is set. What kind of assignment did you give in that respect? Will the Planning Bureau and Professor Albrecht only look at the system costs, as the current studies do, or also at the models for the distribution of costs between the different user groups? Finally, what cost of nuclear decommissioning will be charged? At least I hope that nuclear decommissioning is in place. Foreign examples show that Elijah's assessment in this area is probably an understatement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 14 December 2017, the Prime Minister put an end to the federal government's ambitions to approve the Belgian Interfederal Energy Pact according to the pre-established agenda. Since then, the government has entrusted the evaluation of the costs of the scenarios decided by this Pact to Professor Johan Albrecht of the University of Ghent, who is also co-author of the recent book The Energy Trilemme on behalf of the think tank Itinera Institute with the support of the Office of the Plan. A budget of EUR 100 000 has been set aside for the purposes of this evaluation, based on the envelope initially dedicated to the study of the compensation mechanisms which the government intends to develop to increase the flexibility of energy vectors. The conclusions of this work are expected by the end of January. At the same time, it appears that various scenarios are under consideration, among which – surprisingly – the hypothesis of the future construction of a nuclear fission reactor emerges, in contravention of the 2003 law. Therefore, Minister, what are the alternative scenarios to the Pact that are being evaluated? What were the motivations that prompted the government to start the parliamentary debate in December, knowing the availability of useful data and knowing that it would have been more optimal for the serenity of the debates to build on the results of this study? What will be the value of this assessment, given that the support measure for gas-fired power plants has not been stopped and that this is one of the main factors influencing the cost of exiting nuclear power plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u25	Mr President, in these often complex matters and within the framework of my competence, history is a long and uneasy river. I will therefore go back to the history where we stopped it, since on 19 December I had the opportunity to have an exchange of views long enough and thorough enough to take stock of the situation with the members of your committee on the energy vision which has not yet taken the form of a pact. I remind you of the basis of the discussions. The four energy ministers agreed to develop a vision that will transform our economy beyond 2025, through 2050, through the 2030 stage and through the nuclear phase. I told you at that time, and I will repeat it again and again that when we make choices of this nature, if we decide to dispense completely with nuclear energy, by remaining in the legal framework, only for fear of nuclear energy and radioactive waste and of their cost – which is legitimate – it is important to find another solution. It can't be oil. It can't be coal. So it's gas. Both gas and nuclear energy, such as renewable energy, such as biomass, as fossil energy has its advantages and disadvantages. Among the possible advantages and disadvantages of gas is the need to build new gas plants, to bear the cost of these new technical infrastructures and to know the impact on the consumer's bill not only at central level, but also through the distribution networks. It will also be necessary to offset CO2 emissions with proactive policies that are often linked to the strong commitment of regional energy ministers to make energy efficiency of buildings and electric mobility, which, as a result of its development, will also lead to an additional demand for energy production. All this has to be calibrated and all this is extremely complex. When I came to the federal government with the vision, knowing that Wallonia and Brussels had adopted this vision immediately, which was not the case with the Flemish government and which was not going to be the case with the federal government, I obviously already had a series of studies. The three regional energy ministers and I have relied on the most recent studies to develop this vision. So we already had a series of figures. To reassure you, at the federal level, I have done some work in the meantime. I am thinking here of the law on flexibility, the management of demand and storage, and the drastic reduction of support for the offshore. In the summer of 2017, I also launched a reflection on a support mechanism to be used for gas-fired power plants. All this must be put into context. I was already in a perspective of thinking that the only energy that would be of use to me under an energy pact would be the electrical energy produced by large-scale gas power plants. Therefore, in the current market context, since they are not sufficiently profitable, I had to provide for a support mechanism, as is the case in other countries. I have therefore made requests, in time non-suspecto, for the examination of these mechanisms, which are very sophisticated compared to those of other countries, to have elements, in time and time, to speak with the European Commission. At a government meeting, with our partners and at the request of one of them, we decided to deepen some of the figures. It's no secret. They needed to be deepened by taking into account each other's vision and the ability of the four ministers to ensure, through the exit from nuclear power, security of supply at an affordable price for consumers and businesses and the safety of facilities. It was also necessary to be able to cope with an uncontrolled emission of CO2 or more precisely, to continue to honour our commitments, which are increasingly demanding, in order to avoid these CO2 emissions to the atmosphere. I want to clarify something that is included in the government agreement and that is systematically forgotten. When we talk about the release of nuclear power, we talk about the current generation of nuclear generators. We're talking about the one that currently exists in our territory. We were asked to carry out this work quickly and to ask technicians to do so. In view of the urgency, we decided to launch things at the end of December. I have therefore taken the decision, together with the intercabinets working group, to request my administration, DG Energy, to use part of the operating costs allocated to it, more specifically credit 12.01, and to launch a "small" market. Why small? I knew it wasn't going to be very expensive. Below 30 000 euros, the conditions for comparison, solicitation and request for tenders are obviously more flexible. We used it. We have consulted two bodies. First, we consulted Professor Albrecht who produced the book that you all know by heart, of course, like me, and which has the title The Energy Trilemme. We also consulted with the Planning Office. He told us that he could not study all the scenarios, that he could only study two of them, in a macroeconomic way. I therefore decided to take the two scenarios, Johan Albrecht's and the Plan Bureau's for each in what he was able to do, to carry out the studies on the scenarios requested. Why not be satisfied, as some of you are asking for already existing scenarios, particularly in Mr Albrecht's study? EnergyVille has also done a job in this regard. We already knew. But none of these scenarios fully match the energy vision of the Energy Ministers. It's the basis of work. That's what I was asked to encrypt in the first place. That's all that'd be missing! Some felt that the government was disavowing the vision of the four energy ministers. Not at all. If there is one scenario that we need to indifference and deepen in terms of figures on the four elements I have just mentioned as a priority, this is the scenario developed by the four energy ministers. Other scenarios have been added at the request of government partners who do not necessarily find themselves in Mr.Albrecht's study. I refer you to page 73 of this recently published study. There are a series of scenarios: baseline scenario, nuclear scenario, alternative scenario and radical scenario. Among these, a series of possibilities and infrastructures that can produce electrical energy are repeated but already abandoned or already non-existent in the Regions. I take the example of the biomass which has been the subject of two projects which have been abandoned by the Flemish Region and which will, if not already done, be abandoned by the Walloon Region. In the nuclear scenario, Professor Albrecht foresees a single scenario of 4,000 megawatts of nuclear power maintenance. I cannot go any further for the moment because I am waiting for the ordered figures which are to arrive at the end of this month and on which I must rely to return to the Kern by saying mission accomplished, this is the result of the work you have asked me to be able to make an informed decision on the vision developed by the four Energy Ministers. The scenarios we have asked for span two periods: 2025-2030 and 2040-2050. There are six of them since one of them has been withdrawn. Initially, the intellectual and theoretical field of the scenarios was opened to study as much as possible between zero GW of nuclear in 2025 and 6 GW of nuclear in 2025. The question was raised as to what for zero GW in the scenario of the four energy ministers. What for 2 GW? What if we keep 3 GW? What for 4 GW? What for 6 GW? The most recent power plants in our territory were built in the 1980s (around 1983 or 1985), with a view to extending them by 10 or 20 years. Since this is the current generation, these theoretical scenarios have been expanded. The idea was to open the calculation, at the request of a partner, to the hypothesis of the construction of a new power plant in 2040. After discussions within the Kern, this scenario disappeared. In fact, as it was in 2040 and as Professor Albrecht and the Bureau of the Plan began - logically - first to study the scenarios on 2025-2030, this scenario has never been studied. They did not have to pay much attention to a scenario which, immediately born, had disappeared from the spectrum of analyses which we had asked these two experts. This is the story as it happened recently. I'm waiting to get the numbers so I can go back to the Kern and get his reaction. I hope, since I defend the scenario that I have subscribed to and which is the energy vision of the four energy ministers, that this will be able, with full knowledge and serenity, to lead to the adoption by the federal government of the energy vision of the four energy ministers. Having said that, I would like to add a detail that I have already suggested on several occasions here or in the press: the figures we are making are based on federal jurisdiction. I cannot have experts working on behalf of the federal government on matters other than those within its exclusive jurisdiction. All that concerns the cost to the final consumer and to businesses and which is linked to the transport of energy produced from new structures through the distribution networks and regional territories – which have marked differences in particular as regards the charges; remember the problem of turteltaks – would do well to be calculated by the Flemish government, which obviously also holds on to the energy vision of the four energy ministers. I repeat that I will have a vision only for the Federal powers. It will therefore necessarily be incomplete. In order to know the last carat, it will have to be supplemented by figures to be financed and carried out at regional level. The cost is less than 30 000 euros for the two applications combined. For Professor Albrecht, it is exactly 17,000 euros. But he's telling us he's gonna ask less. That's very good. For the Planning Office, it is EUR 8,000. This puts us in a different position in terms of the criteria to be met with regard to public procurement. What's the timing? I'm not Mrs. Sun yet, even if I'd like it. Therefore, I cannot tell you how the next kern will take place, which should probably take place in the course of February, given the small parenthesis of the carnival holidays. Will this meeting be held before or after this period? I don't know. In any case, I continue to say that we are moving forward as quickly as possible, so that the conclusion of the Energy Pact, following acceptance by the four governments concerned, is as soon as possible. Initially, I wanted to meet the Energy Ministers in December. Finally, I felt that it was somewhat premature and so I preferred to wait until I finished my work, while sending messages to my counterparts for that purpose. I hope I've answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. We will check this out by giving the floor to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u27	Madam Minister, I will check this out, but I think that the text submitted to the Brussels government is not just an energy vision, but an energy pact, as you announced. This also applies to the Walloon government. In other words, two governments endorsed this pact, while two others did not subscribe to the energy vision. It is therefore permissible, once again, to speak of "cacophony". You scared me somewhat, if I understood you correctly, by saying that the idea of a nuclear exit meant that of "the current generation of nuclear reactors". In other words, the federal government would then be ready to build a new generation power plant. That's what I understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u28	Let's be reasonable, Mrs. Lalieux! I would point out that, intellectually and politically, there was no objection to the theoretical costing of the construction of a nuclear power plant in 2040 because of the government agreement. That is simply my point. I considered that this hypothesis should be used in order to avoid that at the end of my work, at the moment when I arrived in Kern, I was told: "Madame Marghem, a scenario is missing". My concern was to maintain intellectual and political coherence with what is provided for in the government agreement. The scenario's gone, I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u29	So we are still looking at the exit of nuclear power. You have to coordinate this Pact and you have reached an agreement. Almost all of Parliament supports your Pact, except for a majority party. You say you work for the federal government, so why didn't you see your three partners from the other governments asking them if you could also quantify the situation for the Flemish, Brussels and Walloon regions? I am afraid that when you arrive with your figures in Kern and you say that you do not have the figures for the three Regions, you are told that "this is not a Pact" since it is not fully encrypted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u31	I don't know if the other governments are doing the same thing. We know that the timing is already too tight and that the watch is playing against the release of nuclear power. I'm afraid you'll be "packed up" in February by saying we don't have all the elements. We will return to you before or after the carnival, depending on the numbers that have been returned to you and the reaction of the Kern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will also stress that this is an energy pact that has been negotiated with the regions. So these are options. Finally, I am surprised at the numbering, as you say, of 17 + 8, or 25. This amounts to a quarter of the Covenant. In fact, on the part of the three regions, there is no such approach. I take note of that. You spoke on the exit of nuclear power. I remain dubious with regard to what is contained in the government agreement on the release of the current generation of nuclear power. Beyond the figures, I thought you would have mentioned a number of new initiatives to try to overcome the dilemma that is yours for the time being, namely to have the Energy Pact adopted by all four governments despite the continuing deadlock. With this encryption, we're only going back to jump better. It is almost three years since your administration should have produced the appropriate figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u33	Madam Minister, you have given a lot of details and I thank you for that. However, I would like to return to four points. First of all, we must take note of the fact that the encryption will be incomplete. It will be complete as far as the federal government is concerned, but it will remain incomplete for the Regions if they do not undertake anything. This is extremely important information for those who follow and analyze this issue on a day-to-day basis. So we actually look to the regions to see what is happening. Secondly, I would like to be sure that you have not launched a signal here in relation to the new generations. I wrote word for word what you said. You highlight the fact that, in the government policy statement, we are talking about the exit of the present generation. This suggests that your government agreement – of course I already hear the N-VA speech – allows the creation of new generation power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u34	It's been from the beginning; it's nothing exceptional.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u35	Minister, Mr. Nollet has the floor for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u36	When the Prime Minister declared in plenary that nuclear would be released in 2025, it was nuclear alles inbegrepen. He didn't say we were going out of the current generation of nuclear power. In fact, that means you've just reopened the door to other options.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u37	No, I don't! To reassure you, if you have any concerns, I repeat what I said. The encryption of a case related to the construction of a nuclear power plant by 2040 – we are in 2017 – exists only on a theoretical level and is not in political contradiction with the government agreement, which is why I had no reason to oppose this request. So I "take it on board" to hear me say after we decided not to study it. This is the government's political response today. The Prime Minister is therefore entirely right. We have to put all these elements together. I tell you the story between point A and point B, how we set scenarios and why we removed one, which corresponds to the political response given by the government. But I am not going to deny the existence of the 2014 government agreement as drafted, so I did not object violently saying that it was unacceptable, that it was not feasible, etc. I wanted to avoid being criticized for forgetting a point and that it had to be added to my study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u38	On this point, it serves as a justification to explain that at some point you accepted the studies because there was no contradiction there. Since then, things have been clear...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u39	All the members of the government have spoken through the Prime Minister, saying, that's...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u40	The whole government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u42	Thank you for that clarification. I would like to touch on a third point. You're saying you analyzed six scenarios. Is it six minus one or seven minus one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u43	It's seven minus one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u44	So these are six scenarios. I heard one at zero GW, one at 2 GW, one at 3 GW, one at 4 GW and one at 6 GW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u45	One to 5 GW and one to 6 GW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u46	One to 5 GW and one to 6 GW?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u47	Maybe I miscalculated. You're right, I didn't dial. In fact, these are six minus one scenarios: one to zero, one to 2, one to 3, one to 4 and one to 6 GW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u48	Okay. How do you work in the 6 GW scenario until 2050? It's impossible without creating a new power plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u49	I have to ask. I just copied what my technicians were telling me earlier. If you want further explanation, I invite you to come back to it. When I have all my numbers and I have gone to Kern, where I hope there will be an agreement, I can come and explain it to you all along and wide. I have noted the scenarios that have been given to me. I can go back to it more broadly, but it seems to me that these scenarios - I agree with you - are until 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u50	There you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u51	I understand your question. Since we cannot have a debate through the Member's reply, I will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u52	I hear it's until 2030. This is important because I dare hope that no one dares to imagine the oldest, Doel I and II, Tihange I, until 2050. Not even you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u53	No. I understand your question. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u54	So, as far as the federal part is concerned, it's important to know what you're putting in place beyond 2030. I just want to make sure it's done right. I don't want to be counted after hypothesis 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u55	Of course not. I told you they were studying 2040-2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u56	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u57	First maturity, 2025-2030; second maturity, 2040-2050. They're working on this right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u58	I'm talking about one last thing. I understand you can't give us a decision-making schedule at the Kern level. That could indeed drag - I know some of your colleagues. My question was about when the study by the Planning Office and the Albrecht study would be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u59	I said at the end of January.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u61	I have to admit that, earlier, I spoke of a flat of consistency. This is a very important issue. I see no objection if some colleagues want to raise sub-questions. We can go a little deeper into the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u62	Mr President, Minister, I also believe that this kind of exchange is necessary. Both in the answer to the first question and to the additional questions and comments...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u63	It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but in some circumstances I have no objection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u64	I think that this is a more fruitful debate than when you say that we should stop here. I had also noted that a nuclear exit from existing nuclear power plants implies thinking about building new ones. You have corrected that, but equally, if you are going to go to 6 to 2050, then a new nuclear power station must be set up anyway. Mr President, I call for this kind of exchange to continue. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for the additional explanation you have given, but what I am still concerned about is the emphasis you place on the fact that the study is only about federal powers. Of course, this is normal, but it could be assumed that if one studies an energy pact - and I also maintain that it is not a vision - all the other ministers are talking about an energy pact and not about a vision - then other ministers are doing the additional studies necessary to decide at the same time. If that has not been agreed, which I believe is also your responsibility, and if that can be an additional element on which one of the parties from this government and from the Flemish government can once again cause delays, then we will have done nothing before the end of this legislature about the core exit. That's another element that stays hanging. I will certainly inform my Flemish colleagues so that they can ask the necessary questions at that level. I would like to point out that Mr Tommelein immediately said that it is not a problem for him, that the studies are there, that he has all the figures and can deliver everything. So I think there can be no problem there anymore. Of course, this gives ammunition again to those who absolutely want to prevent the nuclear trip. I would also like to remind you that the same party in the European Parliament, yesterday or the day before yesterday, held a vote to ensure additional nuclear energy for the future. So the danger certainly didn't go away. Now you are absolutely saying that you will continue to work for that core step. However, allow me to validate this at the moment when it really becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u65	Mrs Temmerman, thank you for the technical assistance you will give us in this matter, through your colleagues at regional level. Since 19 December last, I have said and I have kept telling my regional colleagues that the more renewable they would be in the Regions, the less I should install gas-fired power plants. This was happening in a rather tense context. I asked them each time to commit themselves to figures, to a percentage of renewables by 2050 so that I could at least make the necessary journey so that the security of supply that we would all provide - they by renewable and I by power plants - would be guaranteed at all times. It wasn't easy. I am glad to hear you say that Mr Tommelein has all the figures, because getting them was not simple!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your consistent and interesting explanations. It is obvious that in December your partner's reaction, the N-VA, was very concerned when he challenged the plan. We will pay particular attention to what is going to happen to the Flemish government. Indeed, if he plays the game of your federal partner, it may still be very compromising. We will therefore be attentive to the discussions and we are waiting for you, after the Kern, with your analysis and conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u67	Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the situation of offshore wind in the North Sea and your policy as Minister of Energy. Can you specify the capacity already installed today; specify the capacity already decided and the expected time frame for each of the projects; specify the total potential if all the 'belges' possibilities were exploited in the North Sea to install offshore wind turbines; and specify how much of this total potential you plan to use in 2030, 2040 and 2050 beyond what is already decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u68	Madam Minister, you said just now that it is very important that the regions develop their alternatives further. The more alternatives there are to the nuclear industry, the less you need to provide, for example, for gas plants. One of these alternatives is, of course, the development of wind farms at sea. We should at least double the current installed and under construction capacity. If the timing is maintained, we will have about 2.2 gigawatts of offshore capacity by 2020. The development of additional parks between 2020 and 2030 is not yet planned. However, the timing for the delivery of the new wind farms at sea can really make a difference to the additional need for gas plants and operating hours. That's exactly what you said earlier. The sooner those wind farms are developed, the better. I have a few questions about this. Firstly, will the timing for the 2.2 gigawatt installed capacity be achieved by 2020? Secondly, when will the MOG be ready? Are we on schedule yet? Thirdly, how will we deal with the fact that the concessionaire Interestel has in the meantime already started to build an oversized cable? What implications does this have for the liability and transfer of the cable to Elijah a year after recruitment in accordance with the law of last summer? Fourthly, we need to evolve to at least four gigawatts capacity at sea. Your colleague Secretary of State De Backer already stated in May that this was his wish. Where will the additional two gigawatts be scheduled at sea? When will this final decision be taken so that tendering and development can begin? Will there be a need for a Stevin 2? If so, when will Elijah start doing so? Finally, what installed capacity do you provide for 2030, 2035, 2040 and 2050? How is the consultation with Elia on the further development of offshore capacity? Have there been any clear deadlines in this respect? If not, will they still come?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u69	Mrs Temmerman, the capacity already installed is 877,2 megawatts. It concerns the parks C-Power, Belwind, Northwind and Nobelwind. The windmill park interestel is currently under construction with a capacity of 308.7 megawatts and it will produce from this year on. Construction of the Northwind Mill Park with a capacity of 369.6 megawatts starts this year and will start producing from next year. The last three wind farms Northwester II, Seastar and Mermaid still have to make a final choice for their turbines. The total power of these last three fleets will be 695 to 736 megawatts and will start production in 2020. Some figures have been put forward for such horizons. These are simply extrapolations that are not based on deeper investigations, for the time being. As part of the revision of the Marine Space Plan, which falls within the competence of the Secretary of State for the North Sea, new areas for the establishment of wind farms are planned. I have asked my administration to ensure that new surfaces can reach a total of about 4,000 megawatts by 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u70	Mr President, I thank the Minister for these figures. I would just like to know if you consider that beyond 2030, the potential is limited to 4 gigawatts or can it exceed this limit, as some scenarios envisage, your energy pact being planned until 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u71	According to current studies, the technical and material potential is limited to 4,000 megawatts. This is the maximum that can be established in the Belgian Federal North Sea. On the other hand, thanks to the MOG, we will be able to connect, not only with the last three parks under construction with which we negotiated a greatly diminished support to bring their electricity generation to shore, but also with the next, up to 4,000 megawatts in 2030 and beyond with other wind farms in other bordering federal seas, such as those of England, Holland, Denmark, Germany and others. This is the only means of extension because the technical capacity of our North Sea, according to current studies, is limited to 4,000 megawatts of wind turbines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u72	Madam Minister, I will check the scenarios, particularly with regard to the energy trilemma. Some of them seemed to me to go beyond it. That's why I allowed myself to ask you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u73	Thank you for your figures, Madam Secretary. I do have another question about the over-dimensioned cable of Interestel. Isn't that a problem? The law stipulates that one year after the recruitment the cable will be transferred to Elia. Isn't there a problem with that? Maybe you should check that out for the sake of liability. If I understand correctly, is capacity not provided for the period after 2035? You presented the figures fairly quickly. I believe I understand that capacity is not provided for the period 2040-2050?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u74	Mrs Temmerman, I will answer your second question in the same way as Mr Nollet's: nothing is planned. For your first question, there is no problem. Negotiations are under way between Elia, CREG and Rentel. The first one will develop the cable, which will be immobilized by being hung on Rentel's platform. It is a matter of building the MOG (Modular Offshore Grid), in other words, the take-off at sea, to which – as the law we have voted indicates – will be connected the last three parks, to which the support of consumers has been greatly reduced. In reality, Rentel will serve as a technical and material basis for the construction of the MOG. After the completion of the work, the ownership of the cable, which will transport the electrical energy produced by the new wind farms to the earth, will now revert to Elia – who will take full responsibility for it. For the time necessary to deploy this cable, Rentel will own it, with all the risks associated with it. The negotiations between the two companies will focus on this aspect. At the time of sale of this property, with a view to the installation of the MOG, the risks and insurance costs incurred so far by Rentel will therefore be negotiated. I am thinking of the damage as well as the defects and thus the guarantee. Therefore, this aspect does not pose a problem, even if the procedure is quite sophisticated. This allows for a quick and easy construction of a boating module in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u75	Mr President, I come to another important question, even if it is not the consistent dish you were talking about. Minister, I assume you have had time to analyse the report of STENFO, the Swiss Radioactive Waste Decommissioning and Management Fund, published on December 21, 2017. In Switzerland, for five nuclear power plants and a net power of 3,238 MW, the cost of dismantling and managing waste is now estimated by the competent authorities at €20 billion, or €6.2 billion per gigawatt. In Belgium, for seven reactors of similar type and 5,943 MW of net power, the cost would then be EUR 36.8 billion. At this stage, however, it is still estimated at 14.8 billion, or 2.5 billion per gigawatt. Minister, what was your reaction to the reading of this document? Have you seized the ONDRAF, Synatom, the Commission for Nuclear Supplies and/or the producers of the problem? The fundamental credibility of the figures currently used in Belgium is at stake. How do you explain such a difference? Even if small differences may exist, such a difference of EUR 22 billion can only cause us to fear the worst in terms of the expense that will be carried forward to the taxpayer. So far you have refused any comment, arguing that you are analyzing the Swiss file. Citizens today have the right to receive a full and precise explanation. Is it not urgent to re-evaluate the costs of dismantling our plants and managing their nuclear waste, as long as Electrabel is still in a position to adjust its payments to the Supply Fund? More broadly, is the system, based on an initial assessment by the operators themselves, still credible? I still have a question about the more specific cost of geological deposition. How do you justify that in Switzerland the cost of such a project is estimated at 10.7 billion, while in Belgium you cling to a completely outdated estimate which still runs around 3.2 billion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u76	Mr President, as I had the opportunity to tell a journalist very recently, this year's two major dossiers are the Energy Pact and the whole issue of waste management and, subsequently, the evaluation of nuclear supplies. These are extremely complex projects. Therefore, as far as this second issue is concerned, my answer is not long. It's very long. You'd like to excuse me, but the subject orders it. I thank you, Mr President, for your question on the Swiss case of the management of nuclear power supplies. First of all, I would like to reframe the Swiss context, which has been carefully monitored by my firm for several years. I will also make analogies with the Belgian situation. I agree perfectly with you that we can draw a lot of experience from the Swiss situation, as with a few other models in other countries that have seen developments over the last ten years. There is indeed much to learn. Perhaps I will caricature a little – you will excuse me for that too – but the Swiss approach combines, in my view, German rigour and structure with Swiss precision, and this is reflected in their report. However, the contribution that can be made for us is more about the methodology and organization put in place than on the simple numbers and rules of three that you are trying to apply in a somewhat caricatural way. Excuse me for having to say it. I'll try to explain it. First of all, the figures you are talking about are not new in themselves, since the studies underlying the figures for the Swiss reference scenario, both technically and financially, have already been published in December 2016, more than a year ago. What is the mechanism in Switzerland? It is indeed close to what is happening in Belgium, without being the same. Every five years, in 2006, 2011 and 2016 (the reason for publication in 2016), numerical studies are carried out to evaluate the complete reference scenarios. Thus, between the 2011 and 2016 studies, in five years, there was a cost increase of about 7%. Next, STENFO, the committee on local nuclear supplies takes about a year to study and verify these reports drawn up by Swiss nuclear operators. This evaluation report was published in December 2017. The audit results in a correction of approximately 7% of the costing data. The variation in five years remains limited and therefore the order of magnitude is relatively close. There's no surprise. The order of magnitude is always the same. The Swiss process has not been completed since STENFO, the agency specializing in the matter, has handed over its result to the administration called the DETEC which, if I am not mistaken, will propose to its supervising minister an amendment to the order relating to the costs to be paid by the operators by 1 January 2019. Therefore, the costs you mention are not fundamentally different today, in 2018, than those in 2016 or even those in 2011. With regard to your question about the numbers and rules of three that you are applying in a certain way, I have already had the opportunity to say several times that I regret this kind of oversimplified operation. You had already done so in some of your past questions by taking the German case. Systematically, you choose on purpose – it's normal and I understand, you're in opposition – the country you're interested in. If I take up the German situation that you mentioned, I note that the overall figures containing the assessment of dismantling and waste estimate the estimated German cost of between EUR 36 billion and EUR 42 billion. In Germany, there are thirty-one reactors, either still in operation or stationary, for 25.4 GW installed, or between 1.42 and 1.65 billion euros per gigawatt. If I report these ratios to the Belgian 5.9 GW, we should get Belgium a forecast cost for the provision of dismantling and waste between EUR 8.4 billion and EUR 9.7 billion. Let us be careful and take EUR 10 billion as a benchmark, which is less than the EUR 14.8 billion you refer to for the Belgian situation. Let us also apply your rule of three to the estimated cost of geological storage. You are surely aware of the situation regarding the assessment of the costs for the 2015-2016 financial year of geological storage in France estimated at 16 billion euros by operators and EDF, estimated at 35 billion euros by ANDRA (the equivalent in France of ONDRAF in Belgium) and decided by the French minister to 25 billion. So we are already faced with three different figures. Here again, let us be careful! Even if I take the 35 billion euro benchmark, that is the highest value that is reported by ANDRA, knowing that there are 68.5 GW of nuclear power installed operationally or at a halt in France, that in Belgium, we have 5.9 GW, which, according to your rule of three, corresponds to 9% of the power in France, should I infer that the conservative estimate of the cost of future geological storage in Belgium should be 3.2 billion euros? I'm taking the highest French figure. I bring French power back to Belgian power and I get 3.2 billion euros for geological storage in Belgium. I'm not saying that's what I think, I'm saying I'm applying the rule of three.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u77	In any case, that is what France is applying for the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u78	I don't think so, but I'm making a comparison.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u79	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u80	Let me conclude because this is a fairly long reasoning. You could also choose the Swedish situation and you would also come up with some interesting comparisons that could be made during other exchanges in committee. On the basis of these limited but speaking examples, I simply mean that approaches linked to a rule of three too simplistic should not exist in this area. Since historical times – in 1985 until the end of the 1990s – nuclear supplies in Belgium were calculated on orders of magnitude, percentages. The study related to the evaluation of these provisions took five pages. The 2003 law and the evolution of international methods have fortunately put an end to this. Both ONDRAF and the Committee on Nuclear Supplies, following international best practice in costing, provide that estimates should be bottom-up, not top-down, by a rule of three or a percentage approach that uses orders of magnitude and does not correspond to much. Estimates must be made in a bottom-up manner pursuant to section 12 of the Nuclear Supplies Act 2003, which is binding on the nuclear supply company. A scenario must be developed for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material. A detailed estimate of the associated costs and time planning of planned expenditures must be completed. Finally, a method of calculating provisions at discount and capitalization rates must be established and correspond to validated techniques in financial analysis. In addition, the analyses must also be specific to the country to which they are addressed and respect local conditions. These analyses must even be specific to the plant and its conditions of activation, contamination, etc. There is therefore a series of eminently personal parameters at each power plant and not for a generic power plant – you say that they are the same power plants in Switzerland and that one can therefore comment for Belgium – for example a standard PWR of 1000 MW of Westinghouse type. You again raise the question of comparisons between countries. I have several times, in previous answers, brought you elements about the difficulty of realizing them. I'm not saying it. Organizations such as NEA or IAEA are constantly working on these topics. The Swiss study also includes an attempt to compare in German, which is limited to one and a half pages. As for the figures and your request to know what can explain in concrete terms the differences compared to the EUR 14.8 billion you mention for the Belgian situation, with your three rule, there are objective differences between the Swiss and Belgian situations. I'll list them. The scoping of the Belgian and Swiss amounts is not identical. The Swiss amount covers in particular the costs of Swilag – the local equivalent of the Belgoprocess – but also the estimated costs of past and future operating waste. You know that dismantling a nuclear power plant is an activity with a human resource cost of about 50% of the total cost. According to the studies, the difference in wage costs is in the order of 1.4 between Belgium and Switzerland. Looking at, for example, the 2015 Willis Towers Watson study, the Swiss median salary for a qualified technician is around £66,000, compared to £39,000 in Belgium and £43,000 in Germany. The Swiss labour market is also less open than that of the European Union. Remember that there are differences in the euro-Swiss franc exchange rates. You compare the situation of seven Belgian reactors positioned on two sites with the Swiss situation where the five reactors are positioned on four different sites in a mountainous country. The Swiss have different technology reactors: BWR and PWR. In Belgium, we only have PWR. Dismantlings are not linearizable on the basis of mere power. A tank for a 1000 MW reactor is not necessarily larger than a tank for a 500 MW reactor. It is not shown that the time taken to dismantle this 1000 MW tank is fundamentally different from the time taken to dismantle the 500 MW tank, since the time taken to set up the site is much longer than the time taken for the simple cutting which, of course, will be different. There are many other differences that may exist, I agree, both upwards and downwards. I want to be completely correct with you. There is also a way to make comparisons that would put things up. It is simply to try to prove to you that the rule of three is a rule far too crude to be applied in this matter which requires a lot of finesse and method, as the Swiss, I recalled, know how to do. On the other hand, we could observe less financial data as you do and find that the duration of the dismantling, i.e. the period of final shutdown of the reactor and the dismantling itself, is of the order of fifteen to nineteen years per Swiss plant, which is very close to the Belgian situation, where we estimate the final shutdown from 3 to five years, followed by 10 to 14 years for the dismantling itself. The planning of scenarios for geological waste storage in Switzerland is relatively close to Belgians. I have already indicated to you in other replies the industrial activities that took place beyond 2100. Belgium is at the forefront in the prudential setting of discount rates, as you know. We've already discussed it. You have found in French news a French decree that changed the discount rate downwards at the end of December 2017. That's good news. The level of provisioning appears at first sight to be lower in Switzerland than in Belgium. The return of real German dismantling experience is used as a basic input in Swiss studies, which is also the case in Belgium. As you can see, it is rather on the non-financial elements, the basic inputs and, above all, on the mechanism set up by the Swiss that the feedback seems interesting for Belgium. Switzerland produces costings every five years. The exercise of the Belgian Nuclear Supplies Committee is three-year. This seems better in Belgium, but it should be noted that Switzerland has the advantage of spending more time exploiting and using these studies in depth. So we could draw inspiration from it. Moreover, if Belgium takes about three months to analyse the files, the Swiss spend a year there, I told you. In particular, they commission several studies for evaluation from external financial reviewers, the Security Authority, technical experts on specific subjects, etc. This may represent a useful feedback in terms of the roles and responsibilities of the clearly defined actors, who could be further clarified at home. The prudential approach developed is interesting. Thus, the quality of governance is very high. The Swiss experience with the banking system is felt, in particular in the application of the Basel rules underlying the European Solvency Directives applicable to the banking community as well as to insurance and pension funds. I give you a small example: it is avoided to the maximum to combine the controller and the controlled caps. This also represents a useful feedback. With regard to your supplementary questions on the revision of the provisions, I would like to remind you that in Belgium, these provisions have already been reviewed at the end of December 2016 and will still be reviewed in 2019. The result is a sharp decrease in the discount rate, never seen before. Secondly, the Committee on Nuclear Supplies agreed to review these provisions in the event of a change of context and to make annual use of them. In other words, it will further reduce its control over the evolution of this amount. ONDRAF is involved in changing its costs in terms of the storage of waste on the surface and geological waste, as it is working on a regular basis. You have already mentioned the figures in the press and in previous questions. You're talking about 10.8 billion in Switzerland. That's the Swiss case. I have given you examples from Germany, France and Sweden, among others. I'm waiting for the ONDRAF encryption provided for by the law. In the event of an increase, the amounts will of course be charged to the operators and provided after the opinion of the Committee on Nuclear Reserves. There is nothing new in this regard. The operation remains the same. You have already seen this with regard to the costing of surface storage for Category A waste during the period 2007-2013. This increased from €350 million to €1.2 billion. The trend is clear. The provisions followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u81	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u82	This means that the mechanisms exist, so that we will be able to know the figures obtained. It is important that the calculation of provisions include any increase in time. This is, moreover, what is being done. The aim is to respect the polluter-pays principle and to place the burden of these deferred costs on the operators and owners of the plants. On the other hand, after your analysis of the Swiss situation, I am surprised at your question about the credibility of this system, which is very different, since the initial evaluation of costing is carried out by the operators themselves. Indeed, this is also the case with the Swiss system, which you highlight. The basic studies are from Swissnuclear, the Swiss Nuclear Forum, which federates all Swiss operators. So I find it difficult to understand the connection you want to make with your question. It seems to me important that the person closest to his machine should be responsible for drawing up a first-line evaluation of the machine, for two obvious reasons. First, he knows his machine better than any other and the radiation protection rules require knowledge of the plant. Both are connected. Secondly, it is a matter of responsibility. He is responsible for dismantling his plants, and he must manage their waste. On the other hand, as in Switzerland, there is obviously a need for strong, technical, financial and expert supervisory oversight and audit; directly on the ground if necessary. Those who do so must be given time before them to work. I also note that STENFO is exercising its prudential control and costing analyses drawn up by the Swiss Nuclear Forum, which brings together all operators. This costing covers the entire cost: the costs of dismantling, shutting down, downstream of the cycle, as well as the costs of studies relating to waste storage in relation to Nagra, which is the local ONDRAF. This avoids inconsistencies, temporality problems, interference problems, and governance problems that I have already mentioned. It avoids double hats between controller and controlled. Maybe it's a system that we should deepen. Like you, I appreciate the return of the Swiss experience and we agree on this point. This is a very extensive work. Perhaps we can join each other, more on form and method than on the numerical comparison using a rule of three, and I explained it to myself. That is why my office is particularly following what is happening all around us. For the same reason, I did not hesitate to write to the Commission des réservations nucléaires, as early as October 2017, so several months ago, to ask him for his opinion on the useful feedback of the last ten years that we could collect, including the Swiss case, which is the subject of your question and which was released in the press in January 2018. As I say modestly, I am the first Minister of Energy to have recently approved an operating budget for the Nuclear Stockpile Commission and to provide it with the necessary operational resources to develop this work. I could only advise the Commission on Nuclear Supplies to visit its Swiss counterparts to exchange good practices in the exercise of their respective missions, bearing in mind that, in this and other cases, comparison is not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u83	Madam Minister, I understand that, on the methodological side, you are quoting a number of points and you are even inviting the Commission on Nuclear Supplies to visit Switzerland to improve its methods. I can only rejoice. I think that many things can be taken from the Swiss side with regard to the method. However, I absolutely cannot follow you when you minimize the importance of the difference in numbers. I don't understand when you're talking about Swiss precision. This is true of Switzerland's figures and the stabilization of their forecasts is interesting. There was an increase of 7%. In Belgium, on the other hand, every five years, when the costs are reviewed, there are substantial increases. We have not stabilized the evaluation of our own system and we are the only ones working at 220 metres depth for the assumptions made. No other country in the world works less than 400 metres away and we do it 200 metres away. As a result, assessments are cheaper, which is a security issue and AFCN has already stated this in its 2011 opinion. However, you do not require that other elements be considered in the cost assessment. We are not alone in highlighting this difference. You also tell us that the cost of personnel in Switzerland, under the dismantling component, corresponds to 1.4. But the difference is not in the chapter of dismantling. This is included in the press article. The difference on dismantling is around 400 million, which is part of the margin of error, I admit with you. But all the personnel costs you mentioned and all the other dimensions of dismantling must be set aside. This amounts to 400 million compared to 20 or 22 billion euros. All the elements you mentioned are mostly related to dismantling and not to fuel management. These elements are not on the road to explain this large gap. I am not saying that the amount is correct and verified by the three rule. But I consider that you do not give sufficient precautionary elements in your answer. In 2025, however, there will be no more nuclear power plants, i.e. no more operators or producers who could pay and your legal framework, I come back to it, is very weak in this area. Your explanation is completely incomplete. We had the same debate about the discount rate two or two and a half years ago. You said that everything was fine with the discount rate, that everything was well evaluated. We pulled out the ULB study. Do you remember? As a result, the discount rate was revised to 3.5 per cent. It'll be the same here. I am confident that they will have to review the assessments some day and that whatever is said here, we will live it again, as we have experienced for Type A waste. This is a tripling of the price - as you said yourself - compared to the first estimates, 300 million against about 1.1 billion euros. We are in exactly the same scenario, but the risk is that the legal structure that must be the one that supports these costs that will evolve upwards will no longer be present in order to be able to meet these costs. That is why I will continue to insist on this matter. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u84	Isn't that right? It is the 2013 ONDRAF report that points to this and, since then, the legislative framework has not changed. He hasn't changed! No! I stress that historical responsibility and therefore payment, when the actual addition is paid, must be not the responsibility of the State but the responsibility of the operators, even if they have closed. On this point, however, the legal framework has not changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u85	I mean, Mr. Nollet, that's the case! Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u86	No! Read the answers you gave me!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u87	No, I disagree and we will continue. First element. As I have repeated several times during my long speech, it is obviously the operators who are responsible for the treatment of dismantling and waste. Second element. They are debtors for the time of dismantling which spans many years and our Belgian institutions are carrying out the necessary assessments, as they have done since the time they were established, in a way that is increasingly strict and close to the requirements which are also increasingly stringent internationally, in order to be able to properly assess what is necessary for this dismantling. So when you say that in 2025, there will be no operator etc., that's wrong, arch-false! We agree that there will be no more nuclear power plants. But it will also be the beginning of their dismantling for many years and their follow-up, solely by the operators, by the institutions we have set up in Belgium: the CPN and the ONDRAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u88	Minister, I think you don't realize what you're saying. The 2013 ONDRAF report was already a problem with the legal framework because beyond 2025, there is no longer a person responsible. This Belgian legal framework obliges the operator to continue taking over, even if the price changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u89	Why is this a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u90	I invite you to read the 2013 ONDRAF report again. When the last waste is deposited, there is no possibility of revising the prices on the waste already deposited. The cost assessment will continue to progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u91	What prevents me from changing it? This is a bit out of the global context since you're starting from a Swiss study. This is a wide-ranging debate. Mr President, I am sorry, but as I said from the beginning, this year we will have two major debates which will lead to a continuous exchange with the members of the committee who are interested in it, in particular Mr Nollet, who has long been interested in this issue. I have already had the opportunity to reply to him many times. The legal framework, if it has to evolve, will evolve. You must not begin to say that a 2013 ONDRAF study is before the establishment of this government, which has a very specific specification - we have already had the opportunity to discuss it - is valid for a reasoning that will perhaps fundamentally evolve during this legislature, in accordance with my government's terms of reference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u92	But read your own answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u93	I understand that you want to see the problem as a whole. Perhaps one day we could have a broader debate where all the questions could be asked and where we could get out of the picture of a specific question. I will not answer that question today. [[I heard your reply.]] I will reply to a question or debate, both what you are telling me today and what you will ask me tomorrow, and we will move forward. Don't imagine that I'm not thinking about the evolution of the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u94	Madam Minister, Mr Nollet, we are outside the normal framework of oral questions. I do not have a problem with this, although I will probably still be called to order by the Speaker of the House because, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time for questions, answers and replies is limited. In any case, this is entirely outside the scope of the oral questions. This will still have to be closed at some point. You know that our time is limited and that there is a risk that we do not have the opportunity to deal with all the issues. I therefore ask you to respect, as far as possible, a certain timing. So I ask you to finish your reply, Mr. Nollet. We will then discuss the timing of this afternoon's committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u95	Mr President, I would like to touch briefly on three points. First of all, Madam Minister, I invite you to reread your answers to my previous questions. It was you who highlighted the fact that there were weaknesses in the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u96	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u97	Madam Minister, you do not have the floor. Let Mr. Nollet finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u98	Minister, reread with rest what you said today. According to you, everything's fine and we'll see about later. No, there's an emergency! It was not just ONDRAF that said it in 2013. The round table organized by Mr. Wathelet in 2011 already said so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u99	Minister Nollet, this is not a conversation. This is a reply and I will close this point. Mr. Nollet, finish your line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u100	I come to my second point. You are reporting on the situation in Sweden. I suppose you know that in Sweden, the court has just refused the waste disposal project in depth because it is not sufficiently secure. Here too the project no longer exists. This decision was made yesterday or the day before yesterday. This is very important because it was the most advanced project. Finally, I can only conclude my reply by inviting you to ask ONDRAF, the Commission for Nuclear Supplies, to take more precautions when evaluating their figures. At this stage, they work on a minimum cost basis. You made the parallel with France and you spoke of 3.2 billion by saying that in Belgium this was not the case. However, this is exactly the figure for Belgium, but France has the opportunity to work on economies of scale. In our home, we're talking about seven power plants. In the Swiss, there are five power plants. The difference is much smaller between 5 and 7 than between 7 and 58, which corresponds to the number of plants in France. On the other hand, the system – I think you are admitting it – is still bizarre, since the estimated value is $35 billion when the minister decided to allocate only $25 billion. You didn't rely on that number and fortunately. Nevertheless, this remains an issue of concern. However, as far as precise figures are concerned, the 3.2 billion will not stand the road for the Bs and Cs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u101	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u102	No, Madam Minister. Let Mr. Nollet finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u103	Today, this is encryption. Ask all those in charge of ONDRAF, including the elders, they will tell you. But you are bounded and you remain completely blocked in the defense of the current encryption. It doesn't hold up the road. Fortunately, we will have the opportunity to come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u104	I'm closing this point! This discussion can go on endlessly. If all questions last half an hour, we will not deal with much of them. Or it is necessary to do so in a context other than that of oral questions, but here I am far beyond the normal time of answers and replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u105	Mr President, I would accept a substantive debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u106	Minister, in May 2015, ONDRAF sent you its proposal for the storage of nuclear waste, as it had already done in 2011 as a result of its waste plan. On 7 November 2016, you asked ONDRAF to review its policy proposal for waste B and C so that it no longer includes a predefined choice of the type of geological layer for the reception of this waste. It was only on 17 March that you received a response when the ONDRAF Board of Directors took a position at its meeting on 16 December. In this answer, four months later, ONDRAF simply asked you to give further reasons for your request for accommodation. I was asking you again on April 18th about the follow-up. At the time, you announced that you would still meet with Minister Peeters to follow up on this matter. During our exchange of 13 June, even too and I repeat your words: "Multiple contacts of which several working meetings took place in a constructive dynamic." You also told me that you would not fail to send me a copy of the answers that would, in the end, be sent. Having still received nothing, I came back to you on October 3 to ask you for these copies and to re-examine with you this important issue. You told me that the contacts were still under way, also between ONDRAF and AFCN. A few days later, on 6 October, you announced in the columns of La Libre that you hoped to receive "next" a proposal from ONDRAF so that the decree could be published before the end of the year. During the committee discussions on 19 December, you said that you had personally participated in a technical meeting and that the draft royal decree was soon finalized by ONDRAF. Minister, what is the status of this issue now? What's the status of your discussions with ONDRAF? Have you finally officially responded to the ONDRAF mail received on March 17, 2017? When was your answer? What is its content? When will ONDRAF be able to forward a draft order to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u107	Mr President, Mr Nollet, you have started following up on the matter, which is a good example of how many times we have discussed the matter. I have already replied, on several occasions, that the guardianship offices have had numerous technical meetings with ONDRAF. Indeed, I exercise this tutelage in co-competence with Minister Kris Peeters. As I told you, I myself participated in a technical meeting on this subject with ONDRAF in the course of December 2017. I explained to you that there had been a time of latency, due to the fact that the CEO of ONDRAF was changing. Mr. Minon was admitted to retirement, and Mr. Demarche took up his duties. At this technical meeting, I received a very clear statement of the situation, which confirmed the good progress in the direction requested in November 2016. I would remind you of what we were asking for: on the one hand, the establishment of a step-by-step process and, on the other, the proposal to fix a first step which is limited to the principles of geological storage without indicating host rocks at this stage. From these meetings, I noted that the interactions were positive and bear fruit. ONDRAF has confirmed that I have had several interactions with AFCN and my administration. He also told me that the proposal he was studying would also allow him to work in an appropriate framework, as he could identify the next step in the process, that is, the second step, then the next step, and so on. This is how we asked them to work. The ONDRAF will therefore be able to move forward in parallel with the technical need associated with each stage: research, development, participation and cost assessment, within the framework of an integrated project. ONDRAF told me that it was finalizing the final formalities so that it could submit a proposal for a national policy to its board of directors at a forthcoming meeting. In particular, it was to submit the dossier to the SEA Opinion Committee. It takes as long as it takes. There is nothing to do, we must respect the procedures! With regard to developments since the end of December, ONDRAF informed me that it had submitted its dossier to the SEA Opinion Committee. So it's up to date! As a follow-up, depending on the decisions to be taken by the SEA Opinion Committee, i.e. to carry out a consultation and an investigation, and those which are subsequent to the ONDRAF and the Board of Directors after the SEA return, I cannot prejudge at this stage of timing. The ONDRAF will propose and forward to it a proposal for a national policy which will follow, following the advice of the AFCN, the progress of a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the procedures provided for by the law. It will therefore take a little longer, since now the dossier is in the hands of the SEA Opinion Committee. It must come back and go through the interaction analysis between ONDRAF and AFCN, then to the AFCN Board of Directors and, finally, to the Ministers for the development of the Royal Order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u108	At the end of your response, do you refer to the AFCN Board of Directors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u109	Of course. I mean, no. If I said that, it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u110	You say "obviously" as if it were obvious!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u111	I said something too quickly that I'm going to reprosecrate and that you may have, admit it, misheard, but that I may have spoken wrong. As a result, there is still an interaction between AFCN and ONDRAF. It must also take place when the file prepared by ONDRAF, already in interaction with the AFCN and with my administration and with departmental offices, returns from the SEA investigation or, in any case, from the Advisory Committee, which will decide whether or not an investigation is necessary. Because if it takes one, it will take even more time. It'll take time for the investigation. Next, ONDRAF will visualize what the SEA Committee is saying in interaction with AFCN. Then, the ONDRAF board of directors will take a position, and then send the file to the guardianship ministers (Kris Peeters and I) who will make a royal order, as required by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u112	So, we're okay. SEA opinion committee, it's in progress. Then the AFCN, not its board of directors but as an authority, will have to deliver its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u113	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u114	I'm not talking about what you said, but about the conclusions I draw. So the AFCN, as the authority, will have to give its opinion. Then the board of directors will send it to you, then a royal decree will come. I have a first remark to make: it is problematic that it is by decree of the government that we decide something that will impact the Belgian territory for more than a million years. It is therefore not even Parliament's task. I find that in terms of democratic functioning, we are reaching the limit. I would like you to look at this, so that we can either table a resolution or draft a law. This involves a number of generations that it is humanly impossible to represent themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u115	Mr. Nollet, if I were you, I'd be careful. If I am not mistaken, the 2003 Nuclear Supplies Act is indeed the work of Mr Deleuze.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u116	I am not talking about the provisions here, but about the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u117	I will check whether the legal framework, which could be changed – but it would take even more time, and you would blame me – set by this minister of your political formation in 2003 provides that this is the form that I must resort to. I do not see where the problem lies, especially after all these studies I have just mentioned and given the time spent evaluating them in interaction with everything that the "Belgian planet" has experts in the treatment of radioactive waste. I don't see what else we can do!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u118	Mr Nollet, I will give you the floor for your reply. However, first of all, I would like to point out that the exercise of the oral questions to which we lend ourselves follows the following procedure: the members of the House ask their questions, the minister answers, and Parliament – since it has the last word – replies. It is therefore possible, Madam Minister, that you may not always agree with the content of Mr. Nollet's reply. But, at some point, we have to stay there; otherwise, we never end it. So, Mr. Nollet, that's your last line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u119	Mr President, that will be the case if I am not interrupted. Minister, you admit that there is a significant change that you have obtained from ONDRAF, since it no longer specifies the geological layer in which it proposes to bury the waste. It maintains the principle of geological burial, but removes the chapter on mild clay. It is in itself a fundamental change that you have achieved in the project here. It has consequences, of course, and must also be addressed by the AFCN in order to deliver a notice. We will be careful that the PSAN gives an opinion beyond the advice of the SEA committee of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u120	Mrs Lalieux will not be able to join us, but the issues that have not been dealt with today will be postponed to a later meeting. You have the floor, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u121	Madam Minister, in response to my question No. 22461 you indicated to me that you had instructed your administration in writing to transmit to you as soon as possible an indicative schedule concerning the continuation of the work and the date of submission of the first report of the legislative working group responsible for correcting the shortcomings of the current legislation, in particular with regard to the management of radioactive waste. You said you were looking forward to this report. I assume that since then this report has come to you. What's he saying? Can you send us a copy? What is the next step? La Libredu 18 janvier told us that in fact you had set 6 December 2017 an ultimatum for the legislative working group responsible for submitting to the government proposals to improve the legal framework surrounding the availability of nuclear supplies. Despite this ultimatum, no answer had come to you at the time of your interview. Minister, what has happened since then? When did this report come to you? How are all these carry-overs related to the dark cuts in the public service budget? If not, what are the specific explanations given for non-compliance with a ministerial ultimatum? Is it not your authority that is called into question when you know that the work was started four years ago, that the stakes are fundamental – we are talking about more than 10 billion euros – and that this will only be a first report? Where are the blockages? How can such a catastrophic situation be explained?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u122	Mr President, DG Energy has informed me that because of the current workload of the members of this legislative working group and the current burden of DG Energy, which includes the finalization of the preparation of many important dossiers for this government such as MIRA, the proposal for a national policy on radioactive waste B and C and the preparation of the energy transition – all the work that I have entrusted to DG Energy and which are not simple – the drafting of this report has been delayed. So I'm gonna have to wait. Like you, I regret that the work is not moving forward as quickly as initially requested and that the completion of this first report has been delayed. But in view of the task and its importance, I can understand that the legislative working group takes the time to prepare its report. As a reminder, the previous government had mandated this working group in 2014 to examine the issues of the legislation on radioactive waste and spent fuel management that should be improved in the light of the work and experiences of recent years, in a much broader manner than the only framework of the provisions discussed earlier. Many other subjects are therefore being discussed, as I have already had the opportunity to quote them in my answer to your written question No 481, which also gave an overview of the number of plenary meetings which had already been held and which I had listed. Experience tells me that narrower topics and themes need to be identified and attributed to the most appropriate actors, something my predecessor had not considered in this way. That is the case. I was able to see the positive experience of the IRRS working group – which I had the opportunity to talk to you about in previous replies – set up by the government in November 2016 to resolve in concrete terms IRRS Recommendation No. 7 of the end of 2013 on the AFCN-ONDRAF relationship, for which little progress had been made so far. The AFCN-ONDRAF relationship must be able to evolve and that is what we wanted through effective consultation between the actors who took part in it. The final report was issued by the Council of Ministers in July 2017. So we moved faster. This IRRS working group has resolved some of the topics discussed at the same time by the legislative working group – which is already a good thing – and the appropriate actions have already been requested from ONDRAF. The other issues for which work has to be completed remain. In the specific field of nuclear power plants and their provisions, you may have been able to read in the 2016 report of the Committee on Nuclear Supplies that it had improved the loan framework and committed itself to providing proposals in order to continue to improve the legal framework defined by the Act of 11 April 2003 to further secure the provisions. The Committee on Nuclear Supplies has told me that its work is already well advanced. As for what remains to be done at the level of the legislative working group, as I have indicated to you in my general policy note and also in my reply to your question No 22461, having regard to the subjects, I would like the priority of the work of the legislative working group to be directed towards proposals for improving the legislative framework in order to avoid the creation of nuclear liabilities whose cost cannot be passed on to the operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u123	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u124	I don't know what the problem is. I know him and I want to do something. It's not worth trying to make it look like we're not doing anything. We'll finally agree, Mr. Nollet! This will take place as a priority for Class 2 and Class 3 facilities. However, I should receive the first report so that I can confirm these priorities. As you can see, there are several parallel journeys on separate, ongoing or closed topics. We had to do this, otherwise we would not have been able to move forward. The ERS working group took place effectively, as you understand, in a short time – between the end of November 2016 and July 2017 – to solve several problems in 2013. I believe that the priorities of the legislative working group should be better defined and avoid duplication. I just said it and I'm going to do it. Finally, the road started by the Committee on Nuclear Supplies is on its way to completion. However, the actors are often the same. Experts are not infinitely multiplyable. All experts in these matters are gathered there. As far as the legislative working group is concerned, I instructed my administration in November to make every effort to speed up the work and to transmit to me as soon as possible an indicative timetable for its continuation, including the date of delivery of the first report. DG Energy has just informed me that the legislative working group will resume its work at the end of January with a plenary meeting to take stock of the various themes and their progress and to decide on further work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u125	So we're doing it without a new schedule except for the date of the next meeting. There is no guideline for the part that I think is most urgent, but I agree with you on that. You say it yourself, which is the proof that in relation to the other answer, there is a problem. The most urgent aspect is to draw up proposals to improve the framework to avoid the creation of nuclear liabilities whose cost cannot be passed on to the operator. There is indeed a risk that operators will simply no longer exist. There's a priority here, and that's what I'm insisting on. I still wanted to note that it's been there since 2014! Now we're in 2018 and we're gonna want to accelerate. I mean, it doesn't make much sense anymore. Having said that, I think - and I also understand the administration - that it is linked to the restrictions and difficulties it still has in mobilizing enough staff for the issues that are extremely important. I quote again: EUR 10 billion. I regret that there is no time limit today to know when you will receive this first report. Minister, I just wanted to know if the other questions can be turned into written questions. I would then receive your staff's reply so that we did not have to immediately schedule a new meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u126	In the questions tabled yesterday until 11 a.m., some only come to us now. But I'll send them to you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-23-54-commissie-ic802x.u127	We note that Mr. Nollet's questions, which were on the agenda and have not yet been put, are transformed into written questions. The answers will be received as soon as possible.
