ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u1	Mrs Capoen has asked her question No. 22519 to be converted into a written question. Question No 217, by Mr Vanvelthoven has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 22618 by Mrs Jadin has already been dealt with. Mrs. Lahaye-Battheu will be here soon. We shall postpone item 6 of our agenda. Mr Terwingen, whose question No. 22868 is linked to it, I hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u2	Minister, where a taxable person collects property from his business for free of charge, this transaction is, in accordance with section 12 of the VAT Code, treated as a supply made for consideration and taxable, where such property or the components thereof have been entitled to a full or partial deduction of the tax upstream. Where a taxable person distributes food surpluses free of charge to persons in need, this transaction is treated as a delivery made for consideration, at least if the gift cannot be considered a commercial gift of low value. However, your administration admits that the collection of VAT is abandoned for levies made by taxable persons who transfer unsold foodstuffs free of charge to food banks recognised by the authority, with a view to their distribution free of charge, exclusively to persons in need in Belgium. Can you tell me which VAT system is applicable to the following situation? A social non-profit organization, subject to VAT, buys perishable goods and other non-perishable goods, with the aim of offering them to people without a fixed home (SDF), at end-of-year parties or on other occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u3	Mr Piedboeuf, where a taxable person with a right to a deduction transfers perishable or non-perishable goods free of charge, this transaction is in principle treated as a delivery equivalent to a taxable delivery. However, under certain conditions, the administration has agreed not to require the application of VAT, where certain taxable persons with a right to deduct sell certain food products free of charge to persons in need. The situation you are referring to is to be distinguished from those covered by the two decisions mentioned above concerning taxable persons with a right to deduct. Where a social non-profit organization buys goods for the purpose of offering them to homeless people, it does not have any right to deduct their VAT, even if it is subject to VAT. Therefore, when it transfers the said goods free of charge to those same persons, Article 12, § 1 (2) of the VAT Code does not apply. In this case, this gift is not subject to VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u4	Minister, that's perfect, that's the answer I've been waiting for, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u5	I propose that Mr Klaps should now give the floor to his question No. 23291 on the split bill and the benefits of all kinds, since he still has to go to the Business Commission. Mr Van Biesen, you have other questions, and so you are still present. I do not intend to discriminate against you, but this time I want to put the N-VA first, which does not happen often.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the regulation on the charging of an advantage in kind has been amended since 1 January 2018. It concerns the Royal Decree of 2 November 2017 amending the WIB92 on benefits of all kinds for the personal use of a PC, tablet, internet connection, fixed or mobile phone subscription, of which a lot of employees use, and which are offered by their employer. The regulations are clear for employees who are provided with a smartphone with a subscription for telephony and data for unlimited use by the employer. However, the rules determining the benefit create uncertainty when a subscription is not charged to an employer indefinitely or, in other words, when private use is borne by the employee via a separate and direct invoicing, which in practice is called the split bill. I should like to make this clear through the following concrete example. Suppose employees who have a smartphone available for professional use can also opt to use the device at their own expense and provided that direct billing is for private use under the following conditions. For telephony, the employer makes available a subscription to which a split-bill scheme applies. For example, an employee gets 6.50 euro call value at his disposal. The 6.50 euro is a realistic, average estimate of the real professional use. If consumption exceeds that amount, the employee will pay for it himself. The provider shall send him a direct monthly invoice for this purpose. For mobile internet, the employer provides 1.5 gigabyte per month via the provider. This 1.5 gigabyte is also a realistic, average estimate of the real professional use. In case of increased consumption, the employee will also make a correction and will be billed directly by the provider. If an employee can demonstrate that his professional use is higher than both telephony and data, the employer's share will be adjusted. What the employer makes available is therefore always in line with what is necessary for professional use. As there is in practice a lack of clarity as to the practical application of the new flat-rate benefits of all kinds, I have the following questions. Do you agree, Minister, that the spirit of the legislation is intended to apply only in the case of a private advantage borne by the employer, the charging of an advantage in kind? In other words, in the case of direct invoicing by the provider to the employee of private use, there is no taxable advantage. Secondly, do you agree that in the present case no taxable advantage should be withheld for the aircraft in view of the fact that there is no longer private use at the expense of the employer? Thirdly, how should, where appropriate, the limit above which private use exists anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u7	Mr President, Mr Klaps, with regard to the advantages of all kinds of smartphones, rules were introduced to estimate them on a flat-rate basis. A separate flat-rate valuation has been established for the device, the telephone subscription and the Internet connection respectively. Those rules shall apply as soon as a device with a telephone subscription or internet connection is made available and the user uses it, however small, for personal purposes. The degree of personal use is therefore not in itself relevant. However, where the actual and full personal use of the telephone subscription and the internet connection is directly invoiced by the provider to the user instead of to the employer, the so-called split bill, there is no reason to tax any further benefit of any kind. Since in the above case no private use of the smartphone is no longer borne by the employer, I can agree that in such a case there should no longer be any taxable advantage for that device. The above does, of course, imply that the limit applied, namely the amount above which each use is considered to be private, has been set in accordance with serious standards and criteria and therefore corresponds to reality. In order to avoid improper use, it should also be stressed that in the case of split bill, the above-mentioned scheme can only apply to mobile phones and smartphones and not to any other private taxable advantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear and concrete answer, which will avoid much discussion. I am therefore pleased that the spirit of the law is being applied and that, in other words, people will not be burdened with things that they themselves already pay. I believe that this is good news for a lot of employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u9	Minister, the European regulation 883/2004, which has been in force since 1 May 2010, allows each EU country to establish its own social system, but each Member State must respect the social systems of another Member State. In the Netherlands, the right to AOW or general old age legislation is acquired on the basis of residence, as it is called there. However, residents of Belgium who come from the Netherlands and receive an AOW benefit are subject to the personal income tax in Belgium. Now, last year, the Court of Cassation, the supreme judge, decided that for those who have never worked in the Netherlands, no personal income tax can be levied on the AOW income. Firstly, do you acknowledge that the right to such a benefit, acquired by any resident of the Netherlands on the basis of his residence, is not related to any professional activity? Secondly, why has the Belgian State always imposed a personal income tax on that income? Isn't that illegal? Thirdly, why did you wait for the judgment of the Court of Cassation? Fourth, is there gonna be another change of law? Fifthly, can there be provision in any form of compensation for those who have been wrongly taxed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u10	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, first of all it is important to stress that the right to an AOW benefit is built up not only on the basis of the Netherlands' residence but also on the basis of professional activity exercised in the Netherlands. The fact that Dutch residents who have never exercised a professional activity are entitled to an AOW benefit does not mean that there would be no link between the professional activity and the AOW benefit for those who have exercised a professional activity in the Netherlands. This is apparent from previous case-law of the Court of Cassation. As soon as there has been a professional activity in the Netherlands, as a result of which contributions have been paid to finance the AOW scheme, there is a sufficient link between the AOW benefits and the professional activity to tax those full benefits inter-legally as a pension. However, the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 5 May 2017 limited that taxableness by stating that an AOW benefit can only be taxed as a pension if and to the extent that there was a professional activity in the Netherlands during the period of construction of the AOW. This goes against the commitments made by Belgium and the Netherlands in concluding the double taxation convention and would also discriminate against Belgian statutory pensions. At the end of 2017, Parliament unanimously adopted a legislative amendment whereby pensions not linked to a professional activity but paid under a social protection scheme are explicitly taxed. That amendment shall apply to pensions paid or granted from 1 January 2017. For the AOW benefits paid or granted until 31 December 2016, the administration will follow the judgment of 5 May 2017 of the Court of Cassation. Taxable persons who consider that they are unduly taxed on their AOW benefit may avail themselves of the administrative remedies available. As regards the taxation of supplementary pensions from the Netherlands, it can be reported that my administration is aware of the action taken by the Dutch administration. However, the Dutch administration wrongly claims that the provisions of the double taxation treaty in Belgium would not be correctly applied. The pensions in question are, in principle, taxable in Belgium on the basis of the Belgian-Dutch double taxation convention and are also taxed here. In a number of cases, the court has held that those pensions cannot be taxed in Belgium, or only partially, on the basis of the Belgian internal legislation. However, the administration does not follow that case-law. Consequently, the administration which taxes pensions in full in Belgium remains. I therefore believe that it is wrong for the Dutch administration to want to tax pensions, because the taxing power for those pensions belongs to Belgium and the administration also exercises the taxing power effectively. In order to obtain clarity, I will contact my Dutch colleague shortly. Moreover, Belgium and the Netherlands are currently negotiating the amendment of the Double Taxation Treaty. The pension article is certainly a subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u11	Mr. President, Minister, according to the results of a study by the Neutre pour Indépendants Syndicat (SNI), it appears that 29% of small traders round up the cashier's ticket or radius prices to a multiple of 5 cents. In addition, more than 83% would like to make this change mandatory. For more than three years now, however, traders have been able to change cash payments. Thus, when the price ends with 1, 2, 6 or 7 cents, the price can be reduced. The process is reversed, upwards, when the total price is punctuated to the last decimal place by 3, 4, 8 or 9 cents. These rules also apply to electronic payments since 2016. We had also discussed this subject at the meeting of the Committee on the Economy, together with your colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters. According to that body, this formula would have a dual advantage, namely, on the one hand, the absence of any discussion with consumers at the caisse and, on the other hand, a reduction in the administrative burden as well as the costs when receiving and returning coins of 1 and 2 cents. In this connection, one SNI official, interviewed in the press, said: "We will forward the findings of this study to the Federal Minister for the Economy, Mr Peeters, and to the Federal Minister for the Independents and SMEs, Mr Ducrame. Making the rounding to 0 or 5 cents mandatory would be beneficial for everyone. On the one hand, for the merchant, because all will round the prices and, on the other hand, for the consumer, who will know clearly what will happen at the caisse, but also for the Belgian State, which would save millions because the coins of 1 and 2 cents should no longer be struck." Minister, I had initially addressed my question to Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters, but it was referred to this committee meeting. Have you been able to read the results of this study transmitted to your colleagues, Ministers of Economy and Self-Employed? Do you share the concern raised by the NIS with regard to the compulsory rounding? Finally, is forward-looking thinking open, in synergy with your other colleagues in charge of this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u12	Mr President, Minister, a survey by the Neutral Syndicate for Self-employed shows that 8 out of 10 retailers are in favour of compulsory rounding of prices to 0 or 5 cents. Since 2014, traders have been able to choose to conclude. The NSZ report shows that 29% of retailers currently apply the rounding rules, but many traders still fear that consumers do not appreciate this and would therefore visit a competitor. A mandatory rounding to 0 or 5 euro cents, depending on the price of the product, would, according to the NSZ, provide clarity for both the consumer and the trader. Moreover, making the 1 and 2 euro cents could lead to savings for the government. The question of finalisation is, of course, not new and is also raised in other euro area Member States. In the Netherlands, just like in our country, we work with the option for the trader. So, Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is your view on compulsory rounding of prices to 0 or 5 euro cents? Do you have any discussions on this with your fellow ministers Durcarme and Peeters? Do you have any idea of the position of the European Union and other Member States in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u13	Mr Calomne and Mr Janssen, it appears from the study published by the Neutral Union for Independents, that 83% of small traders are convinced of the need to round prices to 0 or 5 cents. As the measure would be widespread, it would be clearer for clients. This would put an end to unnecessary discussions. The dissatisfaction with the Belgian consumer is mainly due to the very low usability of the 1 and 2 cent coins. For the time being, the study found that only 29% of small traders apply this rule, often for fear of customer reaction. The use of the 1 and 2 cent coins causes a number of problems, both for traders and banks. The costs of sorting and counting these pieces and of transporting them to and from the banks are very high compared to their nominal value. The treatment of these documents can also significantly increase the waiting times at the cash register. For the State Treasury, these coins also entail considerable costs, because the cost of production for a piece of 1 or 2 euro cents is sometimes higher than the nominal value of the coins. The solution applied in Belgium is to discourage the use of 1 and 2 cent coins. Currently, every trader is free to apply the rounding rule or not. An assessment of existing legislation is under way. Mandatory rounding is one of the issues discussed within the government. The Minister of Economy and I are taking the lead in this matter. The European Commission is aware of the cost problem associated with the coins and with the discontent of the population in a number of countries. However, unlike banknotes, euro coins fall within the competence of the national authorities and do not fall within the competence of either the European Central Bank or the European Commission. The use of 1 and 2 cent coins within each Member State may be limited by the introduction of a rounding law. The purpose of the symmetric rounding rule is to reduce the use of such coins by making them superfluous, but it does not call into question their legal tender, in so far as they continue to be accepted as a means of payment. In Finland and the Netherlands they have been rounding off symmetrically for some time. In Finland, this rule was introduced by a law adopted in 2002, which provides that euro payments made in cash must be rounded symmetrically to the nearest multiple of 5 cents. This rule has been extended to other cash payment instruments. In practice, it applies only to cash payments. In the Netherlands, the symmetrical rounding of payments took effect on 1 September 2004. The symmetric rounding rule is the same as in Finland, but applies only to cash payments. The application of rounding by traders is not mandatory, but the vast majority chooses. If they choose, they must inform their customers by sticking a sticker on the display window of their shop and on their cash register. Finally, other European countries have decided to abandon or reduce the number of 1 and 2 cent coins. I am thinking in particular of Ireland, Denmark, Sweden, Hungary, Estonia and Italy. Their higher cost of production than their facial value is a key factor in making all these decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you have indicated, an evaluation is currently under way and we will review it carefully before re-examining you. I note that, like other European countries, in addition to inconveniences and difficulties for traders and users, the State has to face a cost for the production of this currency, which is higher in terms of nominal value. Progress should therefore be made in this area, as has already been done by other European Union partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for the clear and comprehensive answer. We note that many countries in Europe have their own rules. I call for the same rules across Europe. A round to 0 and 5 cents seems very easy to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen has converted 23148 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Galant's 23201 and 23224 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u17	Mr President, Minister, these are my first two questions to clarify the reform of corporate taxation that we have implemented. Of course, we had every opportunity to ask our questions during the discussions. However, we will now have to do so by parliamentary means and by question. My first question relates to the deduction of professional costs, mainly the fact that in the Law of 25 December 2017 and the new Article 1958, 1°, the following statement is made: "The costs actually paid or borne or acquired the character of certain and fixed debts or losses and as such recorded in the taxable period and which are wholly or partly related to a future taxable period, shall be deductible only as professional costs in the taxable period in which they are either paid or borne or booked as debt, and in the following taxable periods, in proportion to the part of those costs relating to that taxable period. This is mainly in order to avoid the possibility of a high proportion of costs being provided for in order to benefit from a reduced corporate rate in the future. Nevertheless, a number of cost structures cover different periods. For example, for extralegal pensions, a back service can be provided. This implies certain parameters of the past, such as the number of years to be taken into account, in order to determine the level of insured benefits and an increase in remuneration, which makes previous payments insufficient, resulting in an additional premium. If the additional premium resulting from the granting of a back service is paid in one instalment, the company may deduct that amount entirely as professional costs in the year of payment. Indeed, those costs do not fall within the category of costs which relate in whole or in part to a future taxable period. Does the Minister follow that view?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u18	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, the answer is short and strong: yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u19	Mr President, Minister, that is one in ten. After all, I will ask ten questions and hope to receive a yes ten times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my next question concerns the discussion we have had with the UCM on the definition of the minimum remuneration of EUR 45 000. I would like to know the correct point of view and interpretation on the basis of a concrete example. This question, I admit, is being asked on behalf of the various federations of accountants and fiscalists. It is a question of clarification, of parliamentary certainty. The law of 25 December 2015 on corporate tax reform introduced a new article which clearly states that the minimum remuneration should be EUR 45 000. However, if the remuneration is less than EUR 45 000, the minimum remuneration must be at least equal to the result of the taxable period. It is not entirely clear how to calculate the minimum remuneration to be paid if it is less than 45 000. Suppose there is a result of a taxable period, for deduction of any management remuneration, of EUR 50 000 and a manager's remuneration of EUR 10 000. As a result, the result of the taxable period is EUR 40 000. According to a first interpretation, the minimum remuneration must be at least equal to the taxable result after remuneration and thus amount to EUR 40 000. The special assessment pursuant to Article 219 shall then be charged at 30 000, 40 000 minus 10 000. A second interpretation states that the minimum remuneration must be at least equal to half of the post-wage result. So that's 40 000 times 50 percent, which makes 20 000. The special tax is then levied at EUR 10 000, which is 20 000 minus EUR 10 000 remuneration. A third interpretation states that the minimum remuneration must be at least half the result of the remuneration. That's 50 000 times 50 percent, which makes 25 000. The special tax is then levied at 15 000, which is 25 000 minus 10 000 euros remuneration. So these are three different possible interpretations for the same problem. The question is, of course, what is the right one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u21	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, in the event that you have cited and extensively documented it, it is the third interpretation that is the correct interpretation. I would also like to point out that this interpretation corresponds to the application of Article 215, third paragraph, point 4, the 1992 Income Tax Code for the application of the reduced rate of corporation tax. The interpretation of this rule was not altered by the reform of corporate tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u22	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u23	If Mr Gilkinet agrees, I suggest that he wait for Mr Crusnière's arrival for the attached questions under item 15 of our agenda. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Galant's 23318 has been converted into a written question. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu asked to ask her questions at the end of the sitting. We come to Mr Luk Van Biesen's question. 23324 on the introduction of a profit premium for employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u24	It is a pity that I have to mention that the competent Minister, Mr Van Overtveldt, cannot answer this question and apparently it must be Minister Peeters who will answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u25	Of course, Minister Peeter's domain must not be...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u26	Do I have to ask the question again or is it automatically postponed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u27	It's a good reset.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u28	It's unfortunate because it's an important question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u29	Mr President, Minister, if you put aside an amount every year in the context of pension savings, you can save a supplement to the statutory pension in the long term and, under certain conditions, benefit from a tax advantage. There are two different ways of saving pensions. One opts for a pension savings account or pension savings insurance. I would like to receive an answer from the Minister on the situation in which a taxpayer has used the tax relief due to pension savings. The case concerns a taxable person who has paid contributions up to and including the age of 47 years through a pension savings account. The payments made to the taxable person gave a tax advantage to the tax relief on the savings of pensions as they complied with the statutory conditions. No additional payments were made to the pension savings account after the age of 47 years. After 47 years of age, the taxable person has entered into a new pension savings insurance contract whose contributions paid were also eligible for the tax reduction in pension savings. In accordance with Article 184, the tax on long-term savings shall be deducted from both pension savings insurance and pension savings account on the 60th anniversary of the taxpayer. The specific question concerns the situation in which the taxpayer requests one of the two products before his or her retirement, but still wishes to receive a tax reduction for future payments for the other pension savings product. Article 145/9, last paragraph, provides that the tax relief for pension savings shall no longer be granted from the taxable period in which the savings, capital or redemption values which are individually taxable pursuant to Article 171 are paid, except where the benefit is the result of the death of the taxable person or in which the taxable person has reached the age of 65. Does the Minister agree with me that Article 145/9, should be read that, for example, for a pension savings account and a pension savings insurance, both of which have been subject to the long-term savings tax and where the taxpayer requests one of the two, the taxpayer can still get a tax reduction for payments for the other pension savings product? A pension savings account or insurance that has been subject to the long-term savings tax in accordance with the provisions of the WDRT is exempt from income tax and is therefore not separately taxable in income tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u30	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, this is a long and interesting question to which I am happy to give a short answer. I agree with you that if a taxpayer has two pension savings products that both have been subject to the long-term savings tax and he requests one of them, this does not prevent him from still applying for tax relief for the payments he makes for the other pension savings product.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u31	That is good news, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u32	Minister, there too, Article 49 of the Law of 25 December 2017 is changing. The first paragraph of Article 205b (1) shall start from own funds at the end of the taxable period determined in accordance with the laws on the accounting and annual accounts of undertakings for the amount for which those items appear on the balance sheet. Article 205b (3) provides for an adjustment of the basis on which the deduction of risk capital is calculated when the items referred to in the paragraphs change during the taxable period for which the deduction is applied. The reserved profit of the taxable period for which the deduction is applied is part of the own funds at the end of the taxable period shown on the balance sheet. The question arises as to whether the reserved profit of the taxable period for which the deduction is applied is to be regarded as an amendment to a component referred to in Article 205ter, § 1 or § 2. In the affirmative, how should this change be calculated? Is it then a change that took place only on the last day of the financial year and therefore has to be removed from the calculation basis for the full amount? As an example, we take a company which, at the end of the taxable period for which the deduction is applied, has own funds of EUR 1 000, including the reserved profits of the closed financial year of EUR 150. Is own funds at the end of the taxable period in application of Article 205 more than EUR 1 000 or EUR 850?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u33	Mr Van Biesen, in your example, the own funds that serve as the basis for calculating the deduction of risk capital amount to EUR 1 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u35	Minister, this is the last question for today in the series on the interpretation of the law on corporate tax reform. It is, of course, important that this is clarified. I would also like to point out to my fellow Members that many of the questions are included in the syllabi as an example for the accountants and those who deal with tax declarations to fill out the declarations correctly. Article 56 of the Law of 25 December 2017 on the Reform of Corporate Tax introduced a new Article 217/1, § 1, Income Tax Code. The Article provides that the rate of 33,99 % corporate tax shall continue to apply to the part of the exempted provisions referred to in Article 48 that has been withdrawn. These are only exempted provisions constructed during the taxable period ending at the earliest on 1 January 2017 and by 30 December 2020 at the latest. We understand that the measure was introduced in order not to favour the creation of surplus provisions during that period, as a withdrawal would be subject to a more favourable tax rate. A draft opinion of the Commission for Accounting Standards of 5 July 2017 on provisions discusses the use of a previously constructed facility under border number 55. A provision shall be used or withdrawn, in part or in part, at the time when the costs for which the provision was made become a certain and fixed debt or when the provision formed is greater than required on the basis of an up-to-date assessment. The Border Number 56 of the Accounting Standards Commission further clarifies that a provision should be taken back as soon as it becomes clear that the likely or certain costs or losses will not be realised or when it is unlikely that they will be realised. Mr Minister, can you confirm that the concept referred to in Article 217/1 is to be interpreted as set out in the draft opinion of the Accounting Standards Commission of 5 July 2017 on provisions and Article 217/1, § 1 does not therefore apply to the use of a previously constructed provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u36	Mr Van Biesen, the answer is a little more complex. In your question you refer to a draft opinion, on which I am unfortunately unable to give my opinion at the moment. In addition to the accounting rules, there are also specific tax provisions. In order to avoid the creation of a provision for purely fiscal reasons, it is laid down that a provision which is withdrawn because the costs for which it was built do not arise should be regarded as a profit of that era. Under the new provisions, taxation will be 33,99 % or 29,58 %. The purpose of the new provision in Article 2017/1 is not to make use of a provision correctly provided for in Article 48 of the WIB 1992.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u38	Mr Dispa cannot be present today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on several occasions this government, but also the previous ones, and you yourself have expressed your desire to find a solution in the ARCO file. Following this Friday's Council of Ministers, the government announced a minimum of four weeks for a possible partial exchange of Belfius and reiterated that it was linked to a solution in the ARCO file. The latter, however, requires an agreement from the European Commission and therefore prior contact with it. Invited to Parliament's European Affairs Monitoring Committee on Friday 26 January, the European Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager, said that she had had no contact with the Belgian government on the subject. You will admit that this statement is a little intriguing in view of the repeated commitments for years to find a solution in this matter. I have seen that this lack of contact with the European Commission has pleased Mr. Van Rompuy, our chairman of the committee. Minister, can you tell me where you are on the ARCO file? Do you confirm that you have not contacted the Commission, or at least Commissioner Vestager? Why has this contact with the European Commission not taken place? When do you plan on taking it? If so, with which Commissioner? In the absence of a debate and hearings in this committee on the partial privatisation of Belfius – which were rejected earlier by a majority vote – what can you tell us about the ongoing process and the association of parliament with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u40	Mr President, Minister, of course my questions are in the same direction. On Friday, we learned that the Council of Ministers had again referred to Belfius' entry into the stock market. We have already had many debates on whether or not the sale of Belfius is justified. You know that my group is against it. Can you confirm whether the Council of Ministers actually validated the 49% sales figure you mentioned a few weeks ago? The Council of Ministers has also given you a mandate to move forward on the ARCO issue. As my colleague has just said, I asked the European Commissioner for Competition, a few weeks ago, to see where we were in this case and whether the government had actually contacted her about it. It confirmed that there had been no contact between this government and the Commission on this matter. So, Minister, where are we on this file? What steps are you going to take? Do you confirm that you are only going to take the steps in this matter vis-à-vis the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u41	As the Prime Minister has indicated, the goal is to make significant progress by March. The necessary contacts will be made in due course. With regard to the percentage of Belfius that will be put on sale, I have received a mandate from the government to value up to 49%. A lower final percentage is a realistic idea. Whatever happens, the authorities will retain control of Belfius after this operation. This will ensure that Belfius's DNA is retained, among other things with regard to the financing of municipalities as developed in recent years. As for the question of contacts with the Commission, in recent months the ARCO dossier has been in the hands of the Prime Minister. I therefore suggest that you ask him the question about the specific contacts with the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u42	A nice cocktail, Mr. Minister of Finance, in the language of wood, in the absence of transparency and ping pong that this answer! Language of wood, because there is no transparency on this issue which has a very strong potential impact on public finances. I think it's the government's jurisdiction. Ping pong, because you send me back to the Prime Minister as if you were not informed of anything about what is still one of the conditions for solving the equation you are facing. I think you're playing with the feet of those who are waiting for a solution in this ARCO file. But if they let it happen, it's their responsibility. I would like to reiterate that we consider Belfius's entry into the stock market, even partial, as a strategic wrong choice at Belgian level. Other large Belgian banks are no longer in the hands of Belgian investors and we see that this is problematic in economic and budgetary terms since, today, Belfius brings us a comfortable rent that will be reduced proportionally with the result of the sale and the choice of the privatized percentage of Belfius. It is also a financial problem, because I think that a bank that is not on the stock exchange is less subject to hazards and short-term profit-seeking. There is room in our Belgian banking landscape, alongside other private banks, for a public bank that would play a virtuous role, especially in investing in our country's economic transition. So I hope that this Belfius stock exchange project will fail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your answers or rather your non-responses. The only information you bring is that you now confirm that you have a government mandate to value a maximum of 49% of this bank. As I said in my question, we are opposed to this entry into the stock market and I regret that we cannot have a calm debate on this in this Parliament. We will certainly have the opportunity to return. We also did not get an answer on the ARCO file; you are sending us back to the Prime Minister. This again shows the government's inability to decide on an important issue. We have been sent away from the Prime Minister to you for many months and vice versa. It's a permanent ping-pong game between you. But I take note of your answer and will not fail to question the Prime Minister in the near future on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u44	Mr Crusnière, thank you for taking me in. I'll try to keep my introduction rather concise. Belgium and the Netherlands are engaged in a not so nice fiscal fight. Some compatriots, who have worked in the Netherlands and are now entitled to a retirement pension, have been the victims of this dispute since 1 January. The parties concerned have received a standard letter from the Dutch tax authorities stating that the exemption, previously applicable in respect of valuation, would no longer apply. For those people, this is an attack on their income which they were entitled to legitimately assume would receive this net income. It would be a group of over 4 000 pensioners. For most, it's about what they've built and earned in their old age. I'll come to my questions. Are you aware of this problem? If so, have you been able to discuss this with your Dutch colleagues? How's this meeting going? Is this stuck or is a solution possible? When do you consider a solution possible? You will understand that this is quite urgent for those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u45	Mr Lachaert, we believe that the Dutch administration has wrongly decided to tax these pensions, because the taxing power over these pensions is in the hands of Belgium, given their nature. I therefore sent a letter this week to my Dutch counterparts, both the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance, to raise this problem. This will soon be further discussed at ministerial level. In parallel, there is also a very short-term schedule for consultation between administrations. I hope to be able to resolve this in the very near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u46	Minister, I am pleased that an initiative has been taken. If this problem continues to drag on, and it seems to me that this will not be so easy to resolve, especially if the treaty may have to be adapted............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would therefore urge that our administration assist those people so that they know what they can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u47	Mr President, Minister, you will not have escaped that I have systematically asked you the same question, but about different sectors. My objective was to obtain, each time, precise answers, so as to avoid each aspect being drowned in a general response. That is why my first question will last a little longer than the next. You know that last Thursday, the chairman of the steering committee went to Ottignies. On this occasion, staff expressed dissatisfaction with the decrease in the number of FPS Finances in Walloon Brabant. Indeed, for years, your department has been reducing the number of its locations and restricting its staff. Unfortunately, Walloon Brabant does not escape the rule, with the result that the locality service is declining and the quality of service offered to citizens is deteriorating, especially since Walloon Brabant is not yet benefiting from an infocenter. I will have the opportunity to go back to a later question. As agents, we receive a lot of complaints from fellow citizens, who deplore the growing distance from their tax department and their registration office. We have to pay attention to it. Indeed, even at digital time, many people are still looking for direct contact with an interlocutor, especially in such complex subjects. In addition, concern persists among public servants. Many noises are circulating about other office closures. They also expressed their fears, on 1 February, when the Chairman of the FPS Finance Steering Committee came. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. With regard to the services of the Heritage Documentation, the Walloon Brabant has already lost many settlements between 2013 and 2018. Is there any thought being given to a new closure? If so, what order would it be? What about the staff? What would be the timing? What are the reasons for these closures? How do you still expect to ensure a high-quality public service in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u48	Mr. Crusnière, in Walloon Brabant, only the Measurements & Evaluations department of the General Administration of Heritage Documentation will have to move this year. Indeed, the services currently installed on Bayard Street in Nivelles will be moved to the site recently inaugurated on the Rue de l'Industrie, still in the same city. About 15 agents are involved. No further reflection is underway on the Walloon Brabant Heritage Documentation, which continues to serve the population of Nivelles and Ottignies. Therefore, nothing changes for the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u49	Minister, thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u50	Mr President, Minister, my question is the same as the previous one, but it concerns the Customs and Excise services. The Walloon Brabant has two locations: Ottignies and Nivelles. Is there any reflection on a further closure of implants? If so, which one? What about the staff? In what timing? What are the possible reasons for a closure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u51	Mr Crusnière, in Walloon Brabant, no department of the Customs and Excise Administration is affected by a move in 2018. The services installed from Brussels to Nivelles remain in place. In the medium term and after a feasibility study, in particular for the accommodation of service vehicles, Salduz premises, etc., customs officers could eventually reach the new site recently inaugurated at the Rue de l'Industrie in Nivelles. The services of Ottignies remain in Ottignies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u52	Minister, thank you for these answers. Movings are part of a synergistic logic. I have no problem with this as long as we remain on Nivelles; indeed, it seems to me important, in terms of customs, to keep our two offices, both in Nivelles and in Ottignies. I hear, minister, that no closure is planned in the medium term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u53	Minister, in 2013, the Walloon Brabant had five locations. Today there are only three left: Ottignies, Nivelles and Jodoigne. Is there any reflection on a new closure? Indeed, in the Walloon Brabant, there is an increasing question of the closure of Jodoigne's office. If so, how many offices will be closed? What about the staff? In what timing? What are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u54	Mr Crusnière, the services of General Administration of Perception and Recovery are always present in numbers at the level of the locations mentioned in your question. The FPS Finance needs to think about optimizing the occupancy of its housing stock in the coming years. This exercise will be carried out for the next administration contract, which is expected to be signed at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u55	Minister, you remain more vague than in other areas, where you guarantee that you will remain. So, if the reflection is underway, we risk, as staff fear, closing. And Jodoigne's office is clearly under threat. This raises a lot of questions about the proximity service needed in the area of collection and recovery. The distance between Jodoigne and Ottignies is still important: what of the staff? As the next contract is signed at the end of the year, I assume that there will be no closure in 2018. I would like to ask you again about this as soon as the situation evolves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u56	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns more specifically the tax services for SMEs. Currently, the Walloon Brabant has three settlements, Ottignies, Nivelles and Braine-l-l-Alleud. Is there any thought being given to a new closure? In particular, the Braine-l-Alleud office is mentioned. Do you confirm these concerns? What would be the timetable? What are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u57	Mr President, Mr Crusnière, the departments of the general administration of taxation are still present in large numbers in Ottignies, Nivelles and Braine-l'Alleud. The FPS Finance needs to think about optimizing the occupancy of its housing stock and this exercise will be done for the next administration contract that is expected to be signed at the end of this year. I therefore give you the same answer as for your previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u58	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to draw your attention to the need to keep a community service for both SMEs and natural persons. There are only three locations in Walloon Brabant: Ottignies, Nivelles and Braine-l'Alleud and I would like to insist that, during the reflection that will take place within the framework of the business plan at the end of the year, you be careful to keep these services close to each other and these three offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u59	Mr President, Minister, this question is also a follow-up to the visit. Finance staff also complained about the infocenters. Since September 2017, eleven infocenters have been opened throughout the country, except in Walloon Brabant. I already had the opportunity to tell you. While the idea of face-to-face contact with the taxpayer may seem attractive, its success can only be guaranteed if the means follow. However, it is up to me that the functioning of these infocenters is not optimal (lack of staff, difficulties in organising). It combines three general administrations, which have different objectives, different locations, different schedules, different ways of working. While the aim of the infocenters is to centralize contacts between citizens and FPS agents, the Walloon Brabant is the only province not able to benefit from this service. This lack of information center in Walloon Brabant will result in citizens and businesses in Walloon Brabant having to, at best, go to the information center closest to their home or headquarters. When the Chairman of the FPS Finance Steering Committee arrived in Walloon Brabant, FPS officials expressed their wish to see this lack of information center addressed in order to provide better service to citizens and businesses. Minister, have you ever done an evaluation of the implementation and operation of the infocenters? Will any corrections be made? This creation also results in staff displacement to the detriment of traditional services, which also poses organizational problems. Will additional staff be hired to address this? Could new infocenters be created in the future? Would the Walloon Brabant Province benefit, this time, from at least one infocenter in its territory? If so, can you give me an approximate opening date for this infocenter? Otherwise, on what basis do you decide not to open the Infocenter in Walloon Brabant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u60	Mr Crusnière, the evaluation of the infocenters has been carried out continuously since they were set up, both in organisational terms and in terms of logistics. Some elements already indicate to my administration what improvements can be made in the short term, such as, for example, the organisation of targeted training or the adjustment of certain working procedures. Nevertheless, obtaining a clear and reasoned view of the actual functioning of the infocenters requires a full year of existence. This will not only provide an overview of peak periods and shorter periods, but also the real impact of the new strategies and working procedures that have recently been put in place, such as the new clearance plan strategy. The reception of the public previously carried out in the traditional services, as well as the tasks resulting therefrom, are now carried out by the infocenters. The redeployment of staff to the infocenters is therefore normal and has taken place on a voluntary basis. The opening of additional infocenters is not currently envisaged. My administration is evaluating the operation of the 11 existing infocenters as a matter of priority. The location of these was fairly distributed between Flanders and Wallonia, five per Region, and one in the Brussels Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u61	Minister, I find it difficult to accept your answer. If I can understand that it takes a little more time to assess how it works, I think it is as important that a minister and an administration respond when problems arise. This is the case in some infocenters in terms of organization; it is the finance staff who say so. This requires a response, which should take place before this one-year deadline for evaluation. Little things can be done quickly. These three administrations must work together. It's not always easy. Sometimes staff in contact with the public receive questions that are not within their jurisdiction. This raises questions about the quality of the service rendered. Of course, I cannot accept the division by Region (five, five and one). You highlight the need to inform it, saying that this is where the public should be welcomed. I fully agree, but it is unacceptable that one province does not benefit from an infocenter and that the people of that province have to go to another province to try to have information and contact with their administration. I know that you will certainly confirm to me, for example, that in terms of services for the taxation of natural persons, reflection is under way and that no offices are closed. But it is paradoxical that we are planning to close local offices – for SMEs or for the tax of natural persons – without thinking of setting up an infocenter in Walloon Brabant. I really ask that the debate on this matter be carried out as well!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u62	We come to the question No. Mr Gilkinet. Has he left yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u63	He's already left. His question was so extensive and only yesterday that, with his agreement, we proposed that the question be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet's 23516 is therefore being postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u65	Minister, I am not going to repeat all the reasoning, but my question is about natural persons. This infocenter is justified by the fact that we moved from seven offices in 2013 to only three today. Again, the staff are expressing their concerns because we are talking about the closure of an office in Braine-l'Alleud. Minister – I assume you will give me the same answer – what is the point of reflection and what is the timing of this closure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u66	Mr Crusnière, my answer is the same. Things are going on. This is part of the next administration contract to be signed at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u67	Minister, thank you for that answer. But here we really touch on the bottom of the problem: these are the natural persons. More than ever, contact with the population and the community service is necessary. I invite you to conduct this reflection in its entirety by considering the possible removal of certain offices in connection with the setting up of an infocenter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u68	Mr President, Minister, I come from a region where there are many breweries, where there is a lot of good beer and where the brewery visit is becoming increasingly popular. That is why I have a question about the VAT rate that people have to pay when they want to visit one of our beautiful breweries. There is a reduced rate of 6% for granting access to cultural, sporting or entertainment establishments and granting them the right to use them. This includes, in particular, the taking of a concert, the performance of a play, the access to an amusement park and that's more. Where the right of access to, for example, a brewery is accompanied by a guided tour on the spot and by the provision of additional information, the provision of services goes beyond mere access to the building. In this situation, the rate of 21% should therefore be applied, i.e. the percentage of visits or guided visits. Mr Minister, can you confirm this statement? Since our Belgian beer culture has now become UNESCO World Heritage and makes an important contribution to our society, are you considering reducing the rate from 21% to 6%?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, do you remember that we once served beer in this Chamber after this committee was closed? Perhaps we should repeat that with beer from your region. I regret, however, to confirm your statement that the visit to a brewery under the expert guidance of a guide is indeed subject to the nominal VAT rate of 21%, as the act is not limited to simply granting access to an establishment of culture, sport or entertainment. As you know, in the current state of the legislation, Member States can, of course, only apply a reduced rate to the European directives and regulations on this subject for goods and services covered by the famous Annex 3 of the VAT directives. Tours in breweries are not included. The introduction of a reduced VAT rate for such a service is therefore today contrary to these European VAT directives, to which we, as good Europeans, must of course stick.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u71	Mr Minister, I recently received a decision from a Legal Assistance Office which said that forced execution on a creditor's behalf is no longer the appropriate way to collect overdue maintenance payments. In that decision it was stated that the persons concerned should only address themselves to the DAVO, the cheapest and most responsible way of execution, since the government set up that service to pay overdue maintenance payments. I wanted to confront you with that decision, because I believe that it is still up to the creditor to pay maintenance money and not the DAVO. The DAVO is a service financed by taxpayers' money, but it apparently leads its own life on the ground. Mr Minister, could you list again the conditions that must be met in order to call upon the DAVO? Are you aware of the fact that decisions are circulating in our courts which do not provide free justice to be collected from the creditor, but that the persons concerned must turn to the DAVO? Are you prepared to take the initiative to discuss this, together with your colleague in the Justice Department, and raise it with the Legal Assistance Offices?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u72	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, in order to request the DAVO's intervention for recovery, the following four conditions must be met. Firstly, the creditor has his place of residence in Belgium. Secondly, the maintenance fee was not paid or not paid in full at least twice in the 12 months preceding the application. Thirdly, the maintenance fee was laid down in an enforceable judicial decision or in a notarial act. Fourthly, the creditor has effectively applied. In order to benefit from advances, there is an additional condition. The net amount of the creditor's monthly income may not exceed the income limit of EUR 1 800 per month. That amount shall be increased for each dependent child. For 2018, that amount shall be EUR 68. The amount of the allowance for a dependent child shall be doubled for a child with disabilities. For the rest, unfortunately, I cannot comment on the decisions of a Legal Assistance Office. I believe that the members of the offices will find sufficient information on the DAVO and its operation on the website as well as in the brochure, which has been completely updated this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-06-54-commissie-ic812x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
