ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u2	I have received an amendment to the draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights in order to reform the Registry Rights, Nos 2569/1 to 12. I received an amendment to the Bill amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Fees to reform Registry Fees, Nos. 2569/1 to 12. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I propose that the draft bill be sent back to the Finance and Budget Committee in order to discuss this amendment. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I propose that the bill be referred to the Finance and Budget Committee for consideration of this amendment. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Since it is a purely technical amendment to adapt the entry into force of the law to reality, I suggest that the committee decides on this almost immediately. After all, I cannot imagine that there could be a problem here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u3	Mr President, you are asking for a change to the agenda for this afternoon. Indeed, the referral of an amendment to this bill to committee is obviously a particular request, given the evolution of this bill, which was tabled in June 2017, before being referred to the Council of State and since its return, nothing has happened for more than eight months! And now that it has been placed in plenary session, even though a Conference of Presidents has just been held, you are announcing an amendment that you are trying to put forward as being of a technical nature. We know that, and we also have amendments. As you come here with a request for referral back to committee, we will also come to committee with amendments. It will be important to do serious, unfocused work on what is appropriate for the majority, looking only at one aspect of this bill. I see you coming, of course, Mr. President! You want to refer the amendment back to committee to quickly change what the majority wants to see changed. Secondly, the text comes back to Parliament quickly and well done. And then hop, it's over! In this regard, I cannot agree at all, Mr President. Really not! And if we refer it back to committee, at your request and that of the majority, we will do the work in committee, but I cannot agree to come back to plenary this afternoon. On the other hand, my colleagues and I can see how many members are currently present in this House. What I am proposing, since you are asking for it, is to accept the referral back to committee, but on condition that this text only comes back to plenary next week. We could be part of this. On the other hand, if it is to make a quick shuttle this afternoon between the committee and the plenary about something that interests only the majority, it is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u4	Mrs Fonck, I can accept your proposal, namely to discuss this amendment in this House next week. Nevertheless, I must draw your attention to the fact that this is only a technical amendment. Only the effective date will be adjusted. All we are doing is adapting the date of entry into force to reality. That does not affect your right to amend where it is appropriate. In this case I saw no reason to put on big songs about that. Anyway, if the discussion is possible next week, as far as I'm concerned, it's fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u5	I agree with you. It is actually purely about the entry into force on 1 July. If we vote tomorrow, the law will enter into force on 1 July. Since the law can never be published in good time before 1 July, while it concerns a fee to be paid for the opening of proceedings, it is intended to postpone the entry into force of the law until the first of the second month following publication. On the other hand, I agree with Mr Fonck's counter-proposal to give each group the freedom to do what it wants in committee and to put the draft in plenary next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u6	I'm a little surprised. We discussed the Registry Rights in detail and even had a second reading. We submitted amendments to the Council of State for its opinion, after which we discussed them in detail in committee. We then voted on the text. Now it is just about the date of entry into force. Mrs Fonck, I find your statement strange as if we had not discussed it in detail in the Finance Committee. Discussions took place during the first and second reading of the bill. Mrs. Fonck, I'm a little surprised. Mr Dispa and Mr Van Hecke were also present in committee, and they can confirm that this has been dealt with on the substance. Mr Van Hecke has even talked for a very long time about a number of things. So there was no problem dealing with it there. It was then adopted at second reading, following amendments examined by the Council of State. I am prepared to convene the committee this afternoon to deal with that aspect. It could then be dealt with as a matter of substance in plenary next week. That would be a normal course of action. I do not see why we should discuss this on the substance a third time in committee. This can always happen in plenary. This amendment concerns only the entry into force. Mrs Fonck, this date is no longer appropriate because deliberation and second reading have lasted longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u7	Mr President, the text has been dragging for eight months...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u8	It cannot be said that this is an attack on democracy. It is not an attack on democracy to revise the text to have a date of entry into force! It's still normal! Next week's plenary session will be able to discuss the text again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u9	It was not intended to open a debate on the substance. It would be rather aberrant to leave that date. We shall therefore amend it. I therefore propose, in view of what Mr Van Rompuy has just said, that the committee be convened. That is where the amendment, I assume by consensus, can be adopted. We will then put it on the agenda of the plenary next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u10	May we convene the committee at 15:00?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u11	It's okay. Everything we decide here is fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u12	We call on the committee today, at 3:00 p.m., to discuss that amendment. It's just about that amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u13	(...). I suggest that until tomorrow afternoon...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u14	For the umpteenth time, this is not a landmark amendment. It's just an adaptation to reality. I propose that we go into the proposal and convene the committee at 3:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u15	So the committee is meeting today to discuss the amendment, but when will it be on the agenda in plenary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u16	Next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u17	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Youro Casier, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State, I do not intend to repeat everything that has been said about this bill in committee by my colleague Mr Delizée, but I would like to recall the reasons that require my group to abstain on this bill. First of all, acknowledge the good intentions of the Secretary of State. Since taking office, it is clear that its priority has been to end the judicial conflict, lost in advance, and to ensure the resumption of scientific missions in Antarctica. It will never be recalled enough: the absence of scientific missions during the winter of 2016-2017 was a horrific failure of the government for the research and image of Belgium. Let us also acknowledge that the Polar Secretariat set up by Sabine Laruelle, long ago, was lame from the start. Despite the goodwill and good intentions of those who animated him – we are thinking here of the work of his former director to whom we must pay tribute today – the dual cap of the Polar Foundation, both operator and administrator, was a source of potential conflicts and therefore of suspicion, whether founded or not. If I recall this, it is not out of pleasure to stir the knife in a wound that we close today, but because we must remember the lessons of the past, failing which we are condemned to repeat again and again the same mistakes. It is therefore from this perspective that the PS group has analysed this bill, and it must be noted that it does not provide sufficient guarantees for us to support it. Of course, the presence of a government commissioner on the board of directors where the operator will have only one advisory voice is a good thing. But for the rest, the government asks us to sign a "white cheque", because the essential – if not all – conditions to be met by the operator are not included in the draft text. They are in a document signed under private ownership, which has not been submitted to the Council of State and which has not been made public. Who will monitor compliance with the agreement and what role will the future Board have in this context? We fear that this board of directors will only be a front-end body responsible for automatically transferring the State's resources to the operator. And, which is probably even more problematic, the means of the State can be spent by the operator without passing a public contract. Without state control. When we know the history of this issue, it seems that the government has not made the effort to learn from the past. So, Mr. Chairman, the Secretary of State, that is why my group will abstain from this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, only a few countries on this globe are entitled to a South Pole base and Belgium is one of them. In 2007 it was decided to establish a permanent South Pole base through a public-private partnership. However, it soon came to a skirmish with the International Polar Foundation of Alain Hubert. The result was more than 30 legal proceedings. Solving those problems and legal procedures was one of your priorities when you became Secretary of State in the government. On 30 June 2017, IPF closed a deal with the Belgian State to end the conflict. The Committee welcomes the fact that, following dozens of disputes arising from an unclear legal arrangement with the IPF, the Antarctic base and the scientific research that can be carried out, it will once again be a priority. The new structure should also make this easier. The South Pole is interesting from a scientific point of view, including for the climatic data stored in the ice. The South Pole Base will now take the form of an international non-profit association called the Pool Institute. That institute will be responsible for the management, maintenance and conservation of the Antarctic base. Our group is only looking ahead and hopes that the South Pole base will only reach the media with positive news. We will certainly support the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, I have already said in committee that it is a good thing that we have found a solution to the South Pole base. As Mr Janssen said, the South Pole base has a lot of scientific potential: there is a lot of knowledge there. Belgium has an important role to play there, because it is one of the few countries with voting rights under the Antarctic Treaty. What is particularly good about the draft law is that some peace will finally return. Under your predecessor there was a real legal battle between the Belgian State, on the one hand, and the International Polar Foundation, on the other hand, with a lot of legal proceedings and costs. I hate to repeat it, but I have the amount of EUR 674 130 here. This cannot be justified and it is very good that this can be brought to an end thanks to the settlement and the draft law before us, because, among other things, in the last winter, no scientist was even present on the basis and yet the cost price kept rising. So it is good that we can look forward again. In committee, I have already put forward a number of elements which require some attention. I will repeat three of them very briefly. Firstly, it is important that this is an international non-profit association. When we look at the present design, it is actually a national non-profit organisation, because only the Belgian State is at 100 % of the driver of that non-profit organisation. It would be good to be able to expand that non-profit association with a number of foreign partners in the short term, so that this really becomes an international story, in which we can join. That is also the case in the coalition agreement. A second point is that the legislative proposal contains a lot of things that still have to be laid down in a royal decree, albeit after referral to the Council of Ministers. I hope that this will also be in line with the agreement reached with the International Polar Foundation. It would not be good if we were to present a KB that goes against the deal we have concluded with the organisation in question. A final point is a rather limited one. Article 7 states that the Pool Institute will be transferred to the new Ivzw. It is important that the assets and the funds transferred to the new non-profit organisation are effectively used for investment, not for the payment of wages. The investments necessary for the pool base should be ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of ink on the Polar Station in Antarctica. We've discussed this a few times here. It wasn't with you, Madam Secretary of State. It was with Mrs. Sleurs. I am referring here to the saga in which much more was said in the media about this subject through appeals and court cases rather than scientific matters. It is time to get out of this situation, which, ladies and gentlemen, has made sure that the Belgian State spends money not on scientific research but on financing legal proceedings: more than EUR 600 000. Mr Van Peteghem is well aware of these figures, since he has regularly questioned the authorities on the matter. Pacta sunt servanda to please those who still love Latin and who, in addition, understand it, Mr. Miller. But, the Pax Antarctica, Madame Demir, - I was going to say "Madame Sleurs" - it was not voluntary, for once! - Pax Antarctica is important. That is why the Ecolo-Groen Group will support your text for the time being, as there will be other steps. It was necessary to give a clear signal that a good agreement was better than a very bad trial. And I hope bad trials are part of the past. It is now important to move forward. Scientific teams around the world must be able to use this zero-emission polar station, the only one of its kind in Antarctica, which allows us to carry out fundamental studies for the future of our planet, in particular. We will be attentive to the future, Madam Secretary of State. You're going to take an important first step. We're touching the 2008 law, I think. This makes it possible to start the process, but you will still have to overcome a few other obstacles. The first is the consultation with the federated entities because, as we know, scientific policy is... It might be useful to think, as my Calvo group leader proposed, about the re-federalization of certain competences. Mr. Van Rompuy, I'm a fan of the Calvo model. So you will have to consider cooperation agreements, Madam Secretary of State. We're here! It will take a cooperation agreement with the Communities to complete the work, but it is also important to be of interest to the international community. You want an A.I.S.B.L. (the "i" being the international initial). However, for the time being, unless we consider Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels to be international (which is not my view), it seems to me that we remain within the Belgian federal framework. It would be welcome if contacts were to continue. At one time, Switzerland was mentioned, in particular, but also other States, also interested in the model. Belgium, which is a party to the International Antarctic Protection Agreement, could continue with the English, whether or not they are members of the European Union. In any case, they could join us on this file. It was a second element. The third element, Madam Secretary of State, concerns financing; sustainable financing. It is not yet clear what is happening today. It's a royal decree. In committee, I read it in the report, you said you would forward the documents to us. It must be recognized that we have been entitled to the documents, including those you have concluded with the International Polar Foundation (IPF), so that we can have clear objectives in terms of funding. That is why we will support this text today. But we look forward to the follow-up. The next step, ladies and gentlemen, will come when Belgium can once again be proud to be a pioneer and scientific research will be able to develop and prosper again in Antarctica.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the progress made on the Polar Foundation file. An important step has been taken for many scientists who will be able to conduct their research in Antarctica in better conditions. It is clear that the polar station Princess Elisabeth is a brand image of Belgium, but it is above all an action for the scientists of our country with, as a reminder, the pioneering spirit of Belgium on this continent. This is important. Secretary of State, this bill is the continuation of the Accord with the Polar Foundation on the Management of Princess Elisabeth Polar Station, entitled Pax Antartica. Recall that this agreement was signed on June 20, 2017. It's been over a year now. It took you more than a year to present your draft text. Remember, moreover, that by proposing this text and signing this Pax Antartica, you had responded to the call to negotiate with the Polar Foundation, an appeal that we had already launched for many months. As a reminder, the negotiation was the right path, Minister. You told us, less than a year ago, that it was thanks to the questions put in committee and in plenary that the government started negotiations with the IPF. In other words, the culture of negotiation was not in the DNA of the majority on this subject. This project gives us the opportunity, for one of the last times, if not the last for a long time, to comment on the conflict that has long undermined the relationship between the Belgian State and the Polar Foundation. We assume that everything will now be better or better and that we will not have to go back too often on the subject. It should be recalled that this conflict has damaged Belgium's reputation abroad and reduced the scientific impact of the project. Madam Secretary of State, in your documents you use a very personal formula: "As long as the Belgian State which the IPF had, however, found in the following years that the operational framework was not satisfactory in practice."I must note that it is not, indeed, satisfactory and that what you said was an understatement. Since then, the relations around this subject have warmed up; the Pax Antarctica and the mechanism of management of the polar station are much wider, of course, than the content of this law. This law only makes sense as a whole that it forms with the Pax Antarctica. It is therefore on the whole that the content of this law must be judged. You have presented us with the outline of this peace agreement. Like my colleagues, I was then able to consult the documents. I have addressed many questions to you for clarification. It is indeed necessary to assess the agreement presented to us by keeping in mind the problems that have arisen in the past, within the framework of the initial agreement. The current agreement and the way in which you operate is an improvement over the previous agreement. However, when we read the documents provided to us in detail, we find that not all problems and risks are dealt with, Madam Secretary of State. It seems to me that this new agreement still has some weaknesses and that, under the new system, the state has only limited means to control what is happening in Antarctica. The only possible sanction is the non-renewal of the concession. How do we know whether human and material resources are well used for the scientific campaign and the maintenance of Princess Elizabeth station and not for any other station that the International Polar Foundation (IPF) would like to build? Many questions remain unanswered for scientists. You specify in your text that the agreement provides for ten criteria on which the operator will be assessed annually. However, these criteria are unclear or incomplete. The requirement that you put three criteria out of ten seems to me to be insufficient. This amounts to automatically renewing the agreement after five years, for a period of three years. In the end, Madam Secretary of State, you will entrust the management of the station to the IPF until the polar station is completely depreciated, has a residual value of zero euro, and the State recovers it without charge. The IPF is certainly competent, so I see no harm in it as long as the state can keep some control over what is happening. However, there are very or too limited means of control. These are the limits of the agreement, which could have provided for, for example, the presence of a representative of the State on the spot. In the meantime, let us hope that despite this flaw in the agreement, the state and the IPF will remain good friends. But let us be honest, you have made this agreement, you have negotiated it, and it is your successors who will see whether it is good or not. Several comments can be made on the structure and composition of the ISBL, I will not quote them all. One of them points out that half of the members will be Belgian. So Belgium could lose its majority in the ISBL and be blocked on a vote by foreign administrators, while its property and budget are at stake. Shouldn't half plus one member of the directors be Belgian? My second point concerns contractual and legal construction. You sink into the law that the Polar Foundation is an operator. This means that any change of operator must take place in a legislative way. That was one of the problems of the previous situation. Why have you continued in this piece of legislation? The third questionable element is funding. This issue of the funding of ISBL remains subject to a subsequent royal decree. It is therefore important that the Royal Decree be swiftly promulgated, since it is the adoption of the Royal Decree that will allow the transition from the regime of the Polar Secretariat to the Polar Institute. Many issues remain outstanding. The means of control are limited and the fears are important in view of the past, which is known to exist and which has caused the misdrafting of a text to cause the torments that you have had to deal with. These agreements of the past have not prevented a mountain of problems. The details of the new agreement should have anticipated all the circumstances that led to the problems of the old agreement in order to predict potential future problems, Madam Secretary of State. Unfortunately, even during the football World Cup, the devil is in the details and it seems to me that the terms of the new agreement endorsed by this law leave a number of loopholes. That is why we will abstain from the text that you are presenting to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u23	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the draft law sufficiently in committee and will not repeat what we said at the time. I still have a brief follow-up question. I spoke about the fact that not only the federal government but also the Länder were involved. You mentioned that the conversations were going on. I'd like to get an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was appointed Secretary of State more than a year ago, almost all the groups asked me to solve this dossier. That is what was called for, because scientific research is very important. I took my responsibility immediately and came up with a solution rather quickly. We hope that today, with the proposed legislative text, we will adopt a new transparent structure for managing the Antarctic base and organising the scientific expeditions there. The latter is crucial. I have heard from several sides how unfortunate it was that there were no expeditions in 2016 and 2017. I regret that too, although there was an expedition last year. At that time, however, scientists were present at the Antarctic base and the evaluation showed that a large part of the researchers said everything was okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u25	The solution could be found thanks to constructive negotiations with many parties. This will enable us to draw a line under the past. Several colleagues referred to the current procedures. I am really pleased that we can put it behind us and that we now have a transparent, clear structure. The discussions in the past mainly resulted from the unclear structure. Let me give you an example. IPF was co-owner; it had 1/1000 of the shares of the South Pole base, the remaining were owned by the Belgian State. As a result, it was not clear who made the decisions and who executed them. With the draft law there will be a very clear structure. The transfer of one thousandth to the Belgian State makes the Belgian State the full owner of the Antarctic base. The Governing Board takes the decisions and the operator is currently appointed IPF for a five-year period of execution of the decisions of the Governing Board. This approach is crucial. In addition to the Management Board, there is an advisory committee of industrialists, which was also requested by the sector. It is good that they are involved in the management through the Advisory Committee. It also includes scientists. Thanks to cooperation between scientists, industry and the Board of Directors of the South Pole base, the foundation can look forward to a bright future. I can also tell you that the directors on the board will not be reimbursed. This is important in the light of the debates on the remuneration of directors in recent years. Anyone who sits on the board of directors will really do so on the basis of a certain interest and idealism and on the basis of some know-how. It's not about the money, because there's no money to be earned on the board of directors. I have already answered a lot of questions in committee. I would like to come back to a few small points raised by various groups. Firstly, national actors are currently represented in the Ivzw. The question was asked whether this could be extended to international partners. In any case, that is the intention; that is why we have also opted for an Ivzw. However, it is important that we first ensure that we are able to run the place, which once again makes the South Pole base positively known in the world. At least my contacts show that there is interest from international partners. It also asked whether there were sufficient guarantees, since the cooperation agreement between IPF and the Belgian State was not included in the legislative text. You can easily see the agreement in the data room, but it is not in the text, because it is a temporary agreement with an operator, while the law and the Pool Institute, which was included in the draft law, are structural. In principle, the Pool Institute can decide after five years to renew the agreement or not. It can perform part of the tasks itself, but it can also look at other operators. That's why it's not in the law. If there is to be a new operator, then a new cooperation agreement must be signed. Research on the South Pole Base, for example, concerns a shared competence. That was also a comment from the Council of State. That is why we have removed this aspect from the text and are talking to the Communities. The aim is to establish a cooperation agreement. I have the hope that it will be available during this term of office, but I know from experience, unfortunately, that things are not always moving fast enough. I'd like things to go faster, and at least we're behind it. That is the state of play with regard to the cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u26	I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, who wishes to convey a communication to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u27	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the meeting will take place at 15:00 in the Brelzaal. Minister Van Overtveldt will accompany us. I ask the groups to be in numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u28	Thus shall be done. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u29	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3047/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3047/4) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u30	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u31	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Johan Klaps, rapporteur, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u32	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3056/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3056/3) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u33	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u34	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 450: Stefaan Van Hecke, Jean-Marc Nollet - 2707: Philippe Goffin, Gilles Foret, Gautier Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u35	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Gautier Calomne , rapporteur, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u36	Mr President, I shall speak quickly on this text, which, as usual, contains a number of scattered provisions, the most important concerning the prison monitoring bodies. As we have repeatedly called for, like the Council of Europe, we have at last separated the control of our prisons from the executive power by entrusting it to our House. It will therefore be necessary, Mr President, to ensure that we adopt a budget which will enable both the Central Prison Supervision Board and the various Supervisory Boards to function. In this respect, it is surprising that the minister, who is not with us this afternoon, is involved in setting the salaries and allowances of the members of these various Councils, going so far as to set them at rates so low that we wonder how, when we are already having great difficulties in completing these various Commissions and even the Central Council, we can still, tomorrow, call on people who, I would remind you, are doing mainly accompaniment work and voluntary work. Another source of concern appears in this text. Indeed, the implementation of this independence of the Central Council was scheduled for 1 July 2017, and that of the Supervisory Commissions was scheduled for 1 January 2018. Today, however, nothing has yet been established. We promise only royal decrees at the end of the year to set new dates of entry into force of which we do not know anything. We do not even know how long this can take. Even more fundamental is the composition of the Central Prison Supervision Board, which is not renewed upon the entry into force of the Act, although it should be considered. No vacancies were published for renewal, no appointment procedures were organized for recruitment. This leads me to believe that the entry into force of this Central Council and the various Commissions may take some time – and not a few years, I hope. In addition, in the organization of these various Commissions, in addition to monitoring and hearing detainees and accompanying them, the Commissions, i.e. the people who make up them, will be entrusted with the task of listening to detainees in a recognized right of complaint, to examine and deal with complaints, and to decide their fate. It's obviously something wrong. It's like asking someone to be a judge and gone at the same time. There will inevitably be conflicts of loyalty between the missions that are being asked of the members of the Supervisory Commissions and this handling of complaints. We confine ourselves here to absurdity. It is clear – the Supreme Council of Justice also reminds us, as the Council of State – that it is now up to our House to take over the practical organisation, the financial organisation, but also the way in which complaints will have to be dealt with by these various Commissions. In the draft submitted to us – here we point out with the Council of State what could be considered discrimination – the possibility of the inmate being treated, accompanied by the doctor of his choice, is eliminated in the area of health care. It must necessarily and necessarily go through the institution's doctor, which is seen as discrimination which may open the way for annulment by the Court of Arbitration. This is all the more surprising because we know the state of health care in our prisons, which is catastrophic. When we know that doctors who are appointed by the state are struggling to get paid and are reluctant today to carry out their mission, we are talking about adopting a measure that will make the situation far from brighter. Finally, the project creates transition houses. This is a new way of considering prison sentence and confinement. In itself, it is obviously a good thing, if we integrate this into the course of detention, and therefore into the organization of the training and the means to be given to the inmate to leave these places of confinement in better situation than when he entered it. Unfortunately, we have the feeling, reading the text, that this will be a new obstacle to parole and that it will contribute to the delay of parole, which will certainly not improve the already complicated atmosphere within our detention and detention facilities. These are all the reasons why our group will abstain tomorrow from the proposed text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u37	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u38	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2969/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2969/7) The draft law has 81 articles. The bill has 81 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u39	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u40	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Stéphane Crusnière, rapporteurs, referred to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u41	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3114/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3114/4) The draft law has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u42	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u43	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u44	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u45	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3103/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3103/3) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u46	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u47	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2815: Catherine Fonck, Katja Gabriëls, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Kristof Calvo - 514: Catherine Fonck - 929: Catherine Fonck - 930: Catherine Fonck - 2816: Catherine Fonck, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Katja Gabriëls, Jean-Marc Nollet - 2817: Katja Gabriëls, Catherine Fonck, Brecht Vermeulen, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Gautier Calomne, Franky Demon, Vincent Van Peteghem, Jean-Marc Nollet. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these legislative proposals. I suggest that you have a single discussion on these bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u48	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify my rapporteur's salary. It's important, Mr. Brotcorne! I declare it. As rapporteur, I would like to say three things. This text is intended to reflect the agreement reached a year ago. I believe that at the time, Mrs De Coninck and Mr Burton were rapporteurs of the Political Renewal Working Group. This is the second, I believe, that we are voting here in plenary session. I therefore invite all our colleagues to come with the other texts. With regard to this text, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the special law aims to make the federated entities contribute to the 150% target (all inclusive as the purists of Shakespeare say) for special functions. I would add, Mr President, not for you but for the institution you represent, that the presidency of the Assembly is not concerned by this text, but is concerned, on the other hand, by other texts which are of a regulatory or other nature, in particular the one relating to the question of incompatibilities. Various members spoke in committee, including my colleagues Vuye and Wouters. They may have forgotten it, but they did. I myself received the reply from Mr Vermeulen, who told me that the Committee on the Interior was continuing to implement the various provisions of the report by Mrs De Coninck and Mr Burton on the work of the Political Renewal Group. This text aims at meeting point 21 of the recommendations, but the status of the Assembly Presidency is covered by paragraphs 23, 24 and 25 of these recommendations, which will have to be followed up. Ladies and gentlemen, it was unanimously that this text was adopted in committee. This is an additional step towards translating the work and recommendations of the Political Renewal Working Group, but there are still other tasks to be carried out, other texts to be voted on in order to fully and perfectly translate the various elements. I will conclude this short report, which is voluntary and pedagogical, to stress the quality of the work of the Legal Service. Mr President, you are lucky, your colleagues are excellent. They sent us a legal note that allowed us not to forget the Brussels institutions. Indeed, it was thanks to this note that we were able to catch up with the Brussels institutions, this note which, with or without the support of certain groups, would have allowed them to escape this rule of good governance. It is therefore with great interest that we have taken note of these texts, which we have translated into amendments. This is not the first time that we can benefit from the relevant opinions, not only from our colleagues, but also from the legal services. I wanted to conclude on this frankly positive note, Mr President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u50	Mr Cheron, thank you on behalf of the services. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u51	We begin by discussing the articles of the proposal of special Law No. 2815. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2815/8) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Special Bill No. 2815. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2815/8) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a special law amending the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions with regard to the cumulation of mandates and amending the special law of 12 January 1989 on the Brussels institutions." The title has been amended by the committee to propose a special law amending, with regard to the cumulation of mandates, the special law of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms and amending the special law of 12 January 1989 on Brussels institutions". The proposal of special law consists of 4 articles. The proposal for a special law has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u52	• 11 - Barbara Pas cs (2815/9) • 9 - Olivier Maingain cs (2815/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u53	• 10 - Olivier Maingain cs (2815/9) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u54	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u55	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u56	****** We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 2816. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2816/5) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2816. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2816/5) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u57	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 2817. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2817/7) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2817. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. Ion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2817/7) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u58	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u59	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Siegfried Bracke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u60	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs De Coninck, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u61	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3132/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3132/3) The proposal contains two articles. The proposal has 2 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u62	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u63	Complemented by the Senate Fined by the Senate The rapporteurs are Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Francis Delpérée. They shall refer to their written report. There is no general discussion in plenary on a draft law which has been returned to the Chamber by the Senate (unless the Conference of Presidents decides otherwise) (Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure). Bills referred to the House by the Senate are no longer the subject of general discussion in plenary (unless the Conference of Presidents decides otherwise) (Rule 87).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u64	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 2810. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2810/11) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 2810. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2810/11) The draft law has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u65	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We begin by discussing the articles of the draft special law No. 2802. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2802/11) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Special Bill No. 2802. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2802/11) The draft special law consists of 14 articles. The special bill has 14 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-plenair-ip235x.u66	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 28 June 2018, at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 June 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
