ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, It is with great regret that we learned of the death, on May 1, 2018, of Francis Graulich, Honorary Clerk-Secretary-General of our Assembly. Mr. Graulich, a Doctor of Law from the University of Ghent, joined the Registry on 1 April 1968. In 2004, after 36 years in our assembly, he retired well-deserved! As the 10th Clerk of the House since 1831, he has accompanied us in the entire process from unitary Belgium to the federal state. Mr. Graulich was the House's chief officer for no less than 18 years, since he took up his duties as Secretary General in 1986. With his perfect knowledge of the Rules of Procedure and of all his subtleties, with which he played when he was still responsible for the secretariat of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, he helped steer the course of our plenary sessions. Six Presidents of the Chambers, Jean Defraigne, Eric Vankeirsbilck, Charles-Ferdinand Nothomb, Jos Dupré, Raymond Langendries, Herman De Croo, six Presidents of the Chamber had the privilege to know him as a close associate and first counselor. They appreciated his constant concern for objectivity and impartiality when soliciting his advice and drew on his long experience. Mr Graulich had thus become, over time, a living vade-mecum of parliamentary jurisprudence. The legislative procedure was really his area of choice more than the administrative part of his powers. He also ensured that our assembly had a legal service worthy of that name and attracted many high-quality jurists to the House. He was also the driving force behind many initiatives aimed at adapting our assembly to the challenges of a modern Parliament. As a lawyer, he was strict in his teachings. Thanks to his hypothermia of irony and humor, he endured the political storms in Parliament. He understood the art of delegation some of his responsibilities in a smart way, giving his employees and upcoming talents the chance to live up to his responsibilities. Mr Graulich was from a family with prominent doctors and lawyers. One of his parents was also dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of Liège. Culture and literature were the hallmark of his family crucible. A lonely traveler, he travelled through Asia and Latin America while nourishing his qualities as a literate end. He drew from the life of Alexander the Great the model of the "plus is in you" which was his adage. I addressed to his family – and I greet his widow and sister-in-law in our gallery – the emotional condolences of our assembly. I propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, that, in memory of the deceased former griffin, you observe some moments of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u3	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 May 2018, I propose that you discuss the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to introducing the special method of investigation for civil infiltration, No. 2940/1 to 8, to be postponed to the plenary session of 24 May 2018. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 May 2018, I propose that you defer the discussion of the bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to introducing the specific method of searching for civil infiltration, Nos. 2940/1 to 8, to the plenary session of 24 May 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u4	Colleagues, the minister must leave us at 3:15 p.m. I therefore ask you to be extremely attentive to the speaking time of two minutes per question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u5	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the horror of international news has reached a new height on Monday. At a time when the United States embassy was being opened in Jerusalem with great pomp, bloody repression was taking place on the borders of Gaza. These repressions were all the more bloody as the parties were unbalanced: on the one hand, Palestinian civilians and, on the other, the Israeli army. In this context, the statement of the ambassador of the State of Israel on the RTBF is simply unworthy. For this reason, my group has asked to be able to hear it in the Committee on External Relations in the near future. Real bullets cannot be allowed to be used in the face of civilian demonstrators. This violence is unacceptable. It is not only unacceptable but also illegal under international law. And we hope that, within this framework, an international investigation can be set up. Minister, Monday was the deadliest day since 2014. Since 30 March, more than 100 people have been killed and more than 12,000 people have been injured. That night again, bombardments took place. This bloody violence obviously undermines all hopes for peace, all hopes for a two-State solution. Our responsibility is in this case. We must make a strong gesture. We have already called for this strong gesture on many occasions: to recognize the State of Palestine. Minister, I have two questions for you. What about this convocation of the ambassador of the State of Israel? When does Belgium finally intend to recognize the State of Palestine?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when a country instructs its military to fire sharp, it is called state terror. The first reports have not yet been confirmed, but another aggravating circumstance is that the military would allegedly shoot with dumdum bullets. This means that at the site of impact, everything, both bones and muscles, is destroyed. Criminal! The fact that people have been moving towards a fence for a few weeks, knowing that there is a danger of life, also has an explanation, in particular despair because of hopelessness. The hopelessness is double. Firstly, socio-economic hopelessness. Eleven years of blockade makes Gaza, one of the most densely populated areas in the world, an open-air prison. 45% of young people are unemployed, 82% of the population live from humanitarian aid. That is untenable, it is a permanent humanitarian disaster. Worse still, at the beginning of this year, the United States announced, followed by a number of other countries, that they would severely cut aid to UNRWA. As a result, there is neither social nor psychological aid at the moment. Secondly, political hopelessness. For years, the United States has ceased to appear to be an impartial mediator. What we have been through over the last few weeks and months shows that the United States is no longer the impartial mediator. However, we all know that until today only the United States may have had control over Israel. So the people who live in the open air prison know that there is no prospect of a two-state solution. Minister, I have three questions for you, and I hope you will answer them positively. Firstly, an international investigation will be requested at the Human Rights Council tomorrow. I am counting on Belgium to support this question. Secondly, in the short term work must be done to remove the blockade, which makes the situation unviable. In the very short term, I would ask that Europe fill the gap left by the United States in the financing of UNWRA. Thirdly, we must no longer be just a payer, we must also be a player. Unilaterally, the United States has broken the status quo. We propose that Belgium and Europe give a clear signal. The recognition of Palestine is the only way to achieve a two-state solution to make the situation liveable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this is a serious time. The violence orchestrated in the Gaza Strip is simply unacceptable. It is unworthy of a democratic State, like Israel, to do so. Although Hamas acted unaccountably in provoking and fuelling tensions, however, the response to these demonstrations was totally disproportionate. Belgium has requested an international investigation within the United Nations. This is an approach that my group supports. We also question the possibilities of conducting such an investigation. Whether within the United Nations or within the Human Rights Council. We must make a statement today, Minister. The territories occupied in Palestine by Israeli settlers, the decisions referred to by my colleagues, including that of the United States to move the siege of its embassy to Jerusalem, or the unilateral positions taken by the United States and Israel, will not contribute to a peaceful solution. This is the time for the European Union to play its full role. Why the European Union? Because it is Israel's first economic partner, as well as the first partner committed to the development of Palestine, we must recall that. Minister, a number of questions come to mind in this context. How can the European Union play its part? What will be his room for manoeuvre? Since dialogue with other UN member countries has been discussed – China or Russia has been mentioned – what is the situation? If there is a will to take charge at European level, is there an agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, let me first express my total solidarity with the Palestinian people who are suffering a great deal today. Minister, I would like to ask you about the untenable situation in the Gaza Strip, where peaceful demonstrators have been shot by Israeli state snipers, with bullets intended to hurt, intended to shred muscles and bones. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we can only denounce the hypocrisy of the international community and, in particular, of Europe and Belgium. If any country in the world had done one quarter of half of what Israel was doing, it would have already been sanctioned by an embargo. If any other country in the world had shown such repression, motions with sanctions would have already been taken against him. Any other country in the world with the atomic bomb, like Israel, would have already been punished. No, I don't! When it comes to Israel, we are silent. We make a few statements, but above all, we do not take any sanction. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister: why this double standard? Why intervene against other countries but never take sanctions against Israel? That is the question that all the countries of the South are asking us. Why this hypocrisy? When the United States gives the "la", why do we follow them by limiting ourselves to a few statements without taking sanctions? In our own country, the Israeli ambassador has taxed all those killed, including children and babies, as terrorists. I heard, minister, that you called him. Calling is good, but we need to go further. The PTB believes that it is time to expel this ambassador for her comments. Minister, do you intend to expel this ambassador who has spoken unacceptablely in our territory? Then, and it's important, minister, what about sanctions? When the South African people fought for equal rights, they fought against apartheid. Only through international sanctions and the struggle of the South African people have apartheid been lifted in that country. Apartheid exists today in Israel. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, do you finally intend to support the application of sanctions against Israel and will you finally recognise the Palestinian state? I'm very curious to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all deeply shocked this week because a problem that calls for a political solution has once again cost human lives and caused human suffering, fear and violence. This finding is a matter, and the speed with which many in the media and social media, as well as Members of this House, have felt able to make a quick judgment of good and evil has greatly surprised me, and I would like to add my words. Once again, I find that people are asking for support for an international investigation, but that they have already reached a decision. Very strange, because one does not need to ask for an investigation if one already knows the result. I believe that the attitude of the Flemish Prime Minister was very balanced and correct, as was the reaction of the Prime Minister who asked for that inquiry to be carried out. All the parties here have butter on their heads and I think it does not do justice to the facts to proclaim heroes here. In fact, I have been with a number of colleagues in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, and I have been with other colleagues in the Knesset. It might be good to give the mental framework in which it can be located. This certainly fits in with this very calm framework, where none of the people present have any idea of the mental state in which both the Palestinians and the Israelis are in daily life. The Palestinians and the Israelis are very much alike. The mental state in which these facts have taken place is the following. They both believe that empathy is a form of weakness that will be punished with destruction. It is within that framework that the real battle scene has taken place. Solutions are difficult here. Those who want to give the impression that we are bringing peace and the solution closer with a fingernip or an easy pronunciation are selling an illusion. In the current circumstances, Europe may still have a certain credibility among both parties as the very last one. Minister, to what extent can you contribute to remedying this situation from this unique European position?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u10	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great deal here about the recent violence on the Gaza/Israel border. It is very important to my group that we strongly condemn the disproportionate violence against unarmed demonstrators. Using war munitions to blow down unarmed demonstrators and civilians hundreds of metres away is simply unacceptable to us. Colleagues, when I hear the Israeli ambassador in our country declare that all the victims, including the eight-year-old children, are terrorists, I get very angry. The recent flare-up is, of course, the result of a conflict that has been going on in the region for 70 years. Today we regret to note that there seems to be no will on either side to reach a peaceful solution. On the one hand, there is the policy of colonization and occupation in Israel, which in fact makes the two-state solution impossible. On the other hand, there is once again a great division in Palestine between Fatah and Hamas, with the latter deliberately rushing the population into the border and storming the border, knowing that the Israelis will react by force to that attitude. In addition, there is an American President who unilaterally decides to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem and thus smash the credibility and reputation of the United States as an honest broker. We call that an elephant in a porcelain shop. Colleagues, all this forces us to realise that it is time for Europe to take responsibility in this conflict in our backyard. Firstly, we must stand behind an international, independent investigation as one block, to identify the violence of the last few days and weeks and to find out who is responsible. Moreover, we must get both sides back to the table. A negotiated two-state solution is and remains the only way out. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, how will our country assist in the creation of such an international investigation? Secondly, what opportunities do you see for getting both sides back to the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u11	Minister, in recent days we have been faced with horrific images from Gaza: more than 1 300 injured Palestinians, more than 60 dead, including several children. It is clear that the violence that Israel used was disproportionate and totally irresponsible. Those who turn events away as difficulties do not understand the complexity, the inhumanity of the conflict. It is true that Israel is in a difficult situation and, of course, has the right to guard its borders, but international humanitarian law must be respected. What is striking, Minister, is that the majority of the protesters were young people. They are young people who are in a hopeless situation. It's true Hamas is trying to take advantage of that. These young people are indeed growing up in what Mr Van der Maelen calls an open-air prison, in a situation more and more reminiscent of the apartheid regime in South Africa. They live there cut off from the rest of Palestine, but also cut off from the rest of the world. The situation is appalling: there is no proper education, no proper medical care and an extremely high level of unemployment. These young people have no prospect of a future. It is therefore our damned duty to work together with all parties to find a solution that will make the situation of these people more liveable in the short term and that will be sustainable in the long term for the security of the region, including that of Israel. Minister, part of the solution will undoubtedly lie in alleviating the blockade of the Gaza Strip. Do you see the possibility of creating, together with the parties, a situation in which we can alleviate the blockade of the Gaza Strip, and in this way find a solution? Secondly, after the withdrawal of the United States, our country has accelerated its contribution to UNRWA, which was a good thing. But that is clearly not enough. Can the government and the European Union provide more resources for this? Thirdly, our country is on the Human Rights Council. Tomorrow it will meet in an urgent session to discuss the setting up of a UN Committee of Inquiry. We must not jump to conclusions, but every dead man is one too many. It therefore seems logical to me that our country should support the demand for an independent investigation. I'd like to hear that from you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium's position on Monday's events in the Gaza Strip is very clear: the violence committed by the Israeli army is unacceptable. There is clearly a disproportionate use of force against civilians. Shooting protesters with live bullets is unworthy. While it is Israel's responsibility to ensure the safety of its citizens, this must be done in a proportionate manner. In any democratic state that respects itself, there are other non-lethal means than live bullets to contain the crowds. At the same time, and although this does not reduce in any way what I have just said about the Israeli army, it is also important to stress the responsibility of Hamas and other organizations that have encouraged the Gazans to try to cross the border illegally by causing damage, but that have mostly pushed children into a situation they knew was dangerous. On behalf of Belgium, we reacted immediately to the violence in Gaza. Not all European partners have done this! Like Germany, Belgium, as likely future member of the Security Council, was involved in a joint declaration in New York by EU members of the Security Council. Belgium urged both parties to make every effort to de-escalate and avoid further bloodshed. I have called for an independent investigation into the violence of recent weeks and the particularly deadly incidents of recent days. In my meeting the day before yesterday with the Secretary-General of the United Nations António Guterres, the Secretary-General confirmed to me that he had appealed for such an inquiry, which was also relayed by many of the members of the Security Council during the debates on the events. Meanwhile, Belgium has co-signed the request to hold a special session of the UN Human Rights Council on violence in the Palestinian occupied territories, together with Spain, France, Ireland, Sweden, Malta and Luxembourg and many other non-European members of the Human Rights Council. That special session will take place tomorrow in Geneva. It will be an opportunity to advocate the establishment of an international UN investigation. The Palestinian representatives in Geneva have already proposed a motion for a resolution to that effect. The role of Belgium is now to promote a European position that is as united as possible. Positioning us at the cutting edge and isolating us would not serve this effort, quite the contrary. We must mobilize our partners and encourage Europe to define a united position on this issue, including the reception of refugees, the strengthening of UNRWA's resources or the end of the blockade in Gaza. Early reactions to events and discussions in Geneva and New York already show that this will not be easy. However, we already share a common position that defines the objective we all want to achieve: the famous two-state solution. What we need to define is how we can do it. However, we will not be able to do this alone. The main actors of the conflict and their support must be closely involved. I am thinking of the United States, Russia and the key countries in the region, which must take more responsibility and overcome their differences. In the longer term, only a return of both sides to the negotiating table to jointly define a future for the region will ensure lasting peace for the Israelis and the Palestinians. As I have already stated on many occasions, all unilateral acts, regardless of their origin, in a region where balances are fragile and multiple perils only weaken the chances of peace and increase the risk of escalation. This is true for the recognition by the United States of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, it is also true for the recognition of a Palestinian State. Such isolated gestures do not help move forward at this stage and create more tension, as we have seen in recent days. Rather, these measures should be the result of a comprehensive agreement between the parties. To achieve this, it is essential to relaunch the dialogue. As you know, Mr President, on Wednesday morning, the Israeli ambassador in our country, Mrs Simona Frankel, was summoned to the Foreign Affairs Department as a result of her statements in the media. Two elements in particular were unacceptable in its statements. Firstly, the way she equated all victims, including children, with terrorists without any nuance. Secondly, the way in which it rejected the obligation of proportionality in the response of the Israeli army. Even though it is her job to defend the position of her government, it had clearly crossed a line. Calling an ambassador does not necessarily mean that it will change its mind. The purpose of this gesture was to convey a message: to remind Israel of its international obligations and to condemn certain unacceptable statements. Mr President, in conclusion, I want to tell you that, contrary to what I have sometimes heard, Belgium's position has been firm and clear on Monday's incidents. I am also firmly convinced that our role today is to try to bring European States together so that, with one voice, on the international stage, these States can bring both parties back to the negotiating table and ensure that the path to peace is finally found.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u13	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. Mr Minister, in order to bring two parties to a negotiating table, in order to bring two states to a negotiating table, we need two states! Today, unfortunately, Minister, you refuse to accept your responsibility and to recognize the State of Palestine. I am disgusted by the cowardice of the European Union. I am also disgusted by your cowardice in this recognition. We must now recognize this State of Palestine. The opportune moment is now! What more do you need? Any other victims? Every death is a victim of too many! It is time to move from words to deeds if we really want to find a solution to two States where everyone can live in peace and security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u14	Mr Minister, we will see each other again next Wednesday in the Committee on External Relations. This will give us an opportunity to assess what is happening with regard to the commitments that Belgium will make tomorrow, including with other European countries, by increasing UNRWA's resources to meet the immediate need. Apart from the fact that we have long had a disagreement here about the need to recognise the State of Palestine, I had to establish something more important. While six of the seven groups that have spoken today condemned the events of Monday, the leader of the N-VA did not hear those words. May I remind him that, even if he was faster than sp.a., we, together with him, have condemned the police violence during the Catalan referendum. Mr De Roover, 100 dead, 12 000 injured in Palestine. Isn't that enough to condemn the actions of the Israeli army? Are the votes of Jewish voters in Antwerp so important to you that you do not get that conviction?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u15	Colleagues, it seems to me that such a subject deserves much more nuance, attention and calm. There is no point in getting excited by invoking stories unrelated to the issue before us. Minister, I remember your answer – and thank you for that – that there is no one-size-fits-all solution, just as it is not unilateral action that will allow us to succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u16	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u17	Mr. Laaouej, can you let me continue? Multilateralism must prevail, for several States must agree. Mr Minister, you mentioned the need to bring together several Member States of the European Union around this objective, so as to deepen the dialogue that will allow this region to finally live in peace. That must be our priority. There is not one truth, but probably several. The essential thing is that the dialogue resumes. I sincerely hope, Minister, that we can move forward tomorrow in the Human Rights Council and also bring forward proposals for a solution to the United Nations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u18	"There are several truths, you have to see both sides of the problem, you have to nuance the point." It is said that this is not the way to see it. There's always two sides. One has to look at the two sides of the story and it is morally difficult for both sides. But what are we doing here? What's with the two sides? There is no equality between a people who is locked up in a small Gaza Strip and another state that simply takes up territory, takes up economics, intervenes in the military and starts shooting. There is no equality! There was no equality between the colonizer and the colonizer, as there was no equality between the black people in South Africa and the South African State. This is the hypocrisy in which we bathe. There's not two sides to see, it's time to take sides. And, as you all know - this is hypocrisy on the side of the right-wing parties - Israel will not hear any message other than economic pressure or military pressure. Now that they have the support of the United States, they don't care about small statements! You know that! It is time to take action because the Palestinian people live in the Gaza Strip, where 95 per cent of the water is not safe! What would we do if we were there? There's 45% unemployment! And we are looking... this hypocrisy of the European Union, it would be time to denounce it, Mr Reynders. If you really wanted to move things forward, you could have expelled the ambassador. As a Belgian authority, you can do so and it is regrettable that you do not act.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u19	The way in which Mr Van der Maelen takes advantage of the events in the Gaza Strip to make party political profiling is absolutely appalling. But not surprising. We are in favour of the two-state solution, because Israel has every right to its own state, which is equally true of the Palestinians. I say that with the utmost certainty. I think that with Europe we must ensure that we are a credible bridge, and some of the opposition's suggestions may be an obstacle to this in the negotiations. Allow me to do a reality check, by the way, because speaking with one voice from Europe will require the necessary efforts and we must keep our eyes open. I've heard high-pitched words both here and outside of our Half-Round. I suspect that people will soon brag in the popular house or youth house about the heroism with which the highest ideals were defended here with a bit of luck that happens with a long drink on a sun-drenched terrace. Tonight, however, those defenders of the highest ideals look in the mirror. The question arises as to whether intervention has brought the solution one millimeter closer, whether peace has been a single service. Anyone who responds to that this evening in front of the mirror looks into the eyes of a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u20	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your reply. We support 100% of the European approach you advocate. We must indeed work for the two-state solution and try back to get the two parties around the table. This does not include isolated actions, as US President Trump did with his embassy, but also one-sided recognition of Palestine, because that is not a solution either. Ladies and gentlemen, last week I asked a question in plenary about the nuclear deal with Iran, from which the United States pulled the plug. In doing so, I advocated keeping the region stable. That region is in our backyard. There are still some conflicts in that region, such as Syria and Iran. I think it is also a task of diplomacy to keep everything there calm and calm and not to escalate anything. We also need a much stronger Europe, Mr Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. When we look at this conflict, I believe that Belgium has always played a leading role in the peace process at European level. I would like to thank you again for that. Let us be honest, Mr De Roover, I am not going to a youth home to brag about what I will say here. I know that many young people are awake from the conflict in Israel and Palestine. Finding a sustainable solution is necessary. It must be a solution that must come from both sides, both from the Israelis and the Palestinians. We all know that there is a great deal of disagreement among the Palestinians between the Palestinian Authority and Hamas. We also know that the solution will not come from America. It will have to come from us, from the European Union. We must show united and united leadership. We must make it clear that peace in the region is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u22	Mr Minister, the top official of the OCAD, Paul Van Tigchelt, made it clear again yesterday in the follow-up committee on Terrorist Attacks that the influence of the Islamic Cultural Centre, with behind it the World Muslim League from Saudi Arabia, in this case the Grand Mosque in Brussels, should not be underestimated. He made that statement on the basis of a number of manuals that should be used to train imams. The same can be said of the school operated by the Islamic Cultural Centre and its influence on about one in four mosques in our country through funding and other facilities it provides. The chairman of the committee said that the matter had to move forward and asked how the concession was to be terminated. You say that the concession has already been terminated, but that its completion is difficult, to say the least. There are problems related to works carried out by Saudi Arabia and who will pay them now. Another question is who will eventually take over the Great Mosque, because you have the unholy plan to change Muslims. You want to put other Muslims in it, but it remains the same Koran. According to you, all the problems will be solved. However, who should be the buyer is unclear until further notice. How is the case going and when and by whom will the take-over of the mosque happen? How do you intend to appease public opinion, because in practice it is of course a patch on a wooden leg? Let us simply close the Great Mosque and turn it into a centre of freedom in memory of the many victims of the attacks in our country. We can inform and warn about the consequences of the Salafist and Wahabite Islam which is being carried out by Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States, who are also responsible for financing and other facilities for the attacks we have witnessed in Europe. Minister, it is time to call it man and horse rather than bend around the bush every time. This is not just about the World Muslim League, the Great Mosque or wahabite countries that exert influence in our country. This is about Islam as such. So stop it, close the Great Mosque and turn it into a center of freedom. That would be a good, clear and powerful signal to anyone who thinks that the hostile takeover of our country by Islam can happen through organizations such as those who have been promoting the Great Mosque in our country for over 60 years, with the help of our government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, unlike the Vlaams Belang, we hope that the Great Mosque can continue to be managed by Muslims. Islam is a recognized religion in our country. That's very good. We know that there is a generation of young Muslims who want to get rid of the Salafism and control of Saudi Arabia. During the Saudi Foreign Minister's visit, the government had said that the convention would be broken. It was January. A Council of Ministers confirmed this decision. Today, there is an extremely shocking report by OCAM on textbooks that are used by the training centre of the great mosque. Minister, it is time to speed up the implementation of government decisions. Where are we in the breakup of this convention? When, if any, has this rupture been notified? By what authority? To whom? How is the intermediate period going? How will this great mosque, this place of worship, be taken over in the future? You know that our committee of inquiry had set out guidelines, criteria and principles for the implementation of Muslim worship there in the future. How will the government organize itself within this framework? Will there be a call for projects? I hear today that reservations about the Belgian Muslim Executive are made, in particular about its dependence on certain third countries. I would like to know how the government will organize the management of this place of worship in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will first give you some punctual information. The letter of termination to the concessione and a copy to the ambassador of Saudi Arabia was sent on 29 March 2018, following a government decision. That is a concession agreement, which states that one year is available. The concession will therefore end on 31 March 2019. The concession will end on March 31, 2019, in accordance with the agreement reached. The second question that arises is what will happen to the Great Mosque. Mr Geens is the competent minister to work that out, he will engage in dialogue with the Muslim Executive. I fully agree with Mr Van Tigchelt that we must make sure that the problem we are fighting is not replaced by a new one. That is also the task that Mr Geens has been given. Mr Dewinter, we agree that no mosque in this country should be used to feed violent extremism. However, we absolutely disagree that the Muslim community, Islam, must be banished from every mosque in this country. The fact that every mosque in this country needs to be closed is not the government's line, that is not the majority's line in this House, and that is not my line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u25	Mr Minister, let us not be naive in this dossier. Each year Saudi Arabia gives 1.2 million euros, just to give the Islamic Cultural Center the chance to keep the Great Mosque open through the Muslim World League. The Muslim World League is the same organization that has been funding this mosque for 60 years, with the help and support of the Belgian government which in the 1960s declared the Great Mosque and this organization as the official representative of the Muslims in this country, has been recognized before Islam. The Muslim World League will not stop because this mosque is closed because the concession is terminated, quite the contrary. Their influence remains. What will you do with the influence of the Muslim World League in our country? What are you going to do with the one in three mosques funded by them, just like the other 30% financed by Diyanet, the Presidence of Religion in Turkey. That's where the real problem is. You're doing windowdressing. The fact that the concession is no longer granted to this organization but is transferred to the Muslim executive in our country is a patch on a wooden leg. The problem isn't the Muslim World League, it's not the Great Mosque, it's not just salafism and wahabism. The problem is Islam which does not belong here and which must be returned to where it belongs: on the other side of the Mediterranean. Not here with us in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. This very shocking report, however, contained a glimmer of hope. Indeed, today there is indeed a generation of young Muslims who want to get rid of this Salafist tutelage, this radical tutelage, this tutelage exercised by third countries. Our responsibility, Minister, is to ensure that this generation, that these imams, that these Muslims have more room and more support from the Belgian authorities. And I am counting on you to ensure that on the occasion of the transfer of responsibility for this place of worship – which must remain Muslim – this generation can have the right to the chapter and so that it can deploy. In our committee of inquiry, we put in place criteria and recommendations. I count on you to ensure that these criteria and recommendations are scrupulously met when selecting the new manager.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u27	Mr. Secretary, congratulations! After your tough statements last week, the transmigrants effectively disappeared from the North Station. The question is, where did they go? Where'd they go? Have you housed all the migrants in return centres or host families? You announced on the VTM news last Sunday that there would be police action on Monday. Then, of course, the transmigrants are gone on Monday; that's quite weedy. What would you do if you were a transmigrant? Then you were gone too! That is the result of your policy of announcement. Hence my first question. How many transmigrants have been in a return center since your tough statement a week ago? Let me give you some figures. You're laughing, but you won't laugh at once. The Civic Platform has published a number of figures. There's 600 transmigrants out there. From December last year to May this year, 85 were arrested. Three of them were effectively deported. Three out of 600, that's half a percent. Those numbers are lame. I hope they're not right for you, because they're even worse than the numbers of your police action in 2016. At that time, you managed to get 1.8 % to be pointed out effectively. Your problem is structural: 80 % of expulsion orders are not executed. There is impunity; illegal residence on the territory is not a problem. I always thought you were the man of law and order and of zero tolerance. You seem to be the man of the tough statements. Of course, that situation cannot last. It is inhumane to those involved. It creates insecurity for the citizens. Of course, the transmigrants are still here, so I mistakenly congratulated you. They're just here, but somewhere else. What will you do? Will you wait until there's a serious problem, until someone gets hurt, then perform?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u28	Mr Vuye, if you were still in my group, that would be called a one-two. Thank you for that. The Vuye & Wouters group is helping the N-VA. This is at least historic and should be recorded in the Chamber's annals. In the North Station and its surroundings, both the federal and the local police carry out daily actions. These are sometimes small actions such as identity checks and sometimes large actions. It's not me who announces those actions in advance, sometimes there are Twitter messages and then I can only confirm them. I'll give you a few figures. Last Thursday, when we were standing here in the Chamber, there were 600 illegal migrants present in the North Station and its surroundings. Last Saturday there were 262, last Sunday 170, last Monday 100 and last Tuesday there were 27 illegal migrants who were also checked. At the moment, we have enough room in the closed centres for the people we take in. What you're saying is true, it's not because I gave the North Station, as I promised, back to the travellers that the transmigrants have disappeared from our territory. The actions will therefore be adapted. They will happen where the transmigrants are located. There's room in the return centers. We will continue the actions and we will also effectively repatriate those who are illegally on our territory and who we can repatriate. The Secretary of State is committed to that with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u29	Minister, at least my group is very pleased that we have helped you. I am sure you know that we are always very constructive. Just what did you just say? We'll pick them up and we'll show them to the extent that that's possible. What figures do you have for the expulsions? It was less than 2% of your police action in West Flanders. You manage to repatriate 0.5 %. So please stop being tough. The reality is that Brussels-North has become a hub for transmigrants on their way to the United Kingdom. As if that were not enough, you will sign the Marrakesh Declaration together with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, so that, in addition to the illegal influx, which you cannot control, you will also promote a legal influx. There is only one solution, Minister. You must develop a route as President Macron does, with coordinated police operations, with return centres, with effective punishment for the illegal stay in Belgium and with expulsion orders, which are being carried out. Since you are always talking about police actions and recordings, but not about repatriations, and because you are not taking any initiative, my group will help you once again. My group will table a proposal. In the meantime, stop fooling around with tweets. This is what you do, throwing fake news around.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would indeed like to talk about the new form of collection of traffic fines that has been introduced since 1 March. A website can be used to defend, but in practice this causes a lot of problems. There are problems of late notification of the facts, failure to mention the account number, failure to mention a date of dispatch, but especially the low user-friendly website. Even for people who are familiar with the Internet, this is not so obvious. There is even an explicit mention that handwritten comments are not taken into account. The website works very slowly and is unclear. The "Frequently Asked Questions" section contains contradictory answers. All this sometimes leads to grotesque situations. Let me give you an example. I was referred to a dossier in which people from Ghent would have been in the region of Namur. They got a report of a traffic violation near Namur. However, they have never been there. They searched the form on the website. The first question was whether the car in question was owned. The answer was, of course, no. The second question was who owns the car. They couldn't fill this out because they don't know which car it's about. The system then stalled so that the form could not be printed, nor returned. When they then telephoned and asked to get the picture, they got the answer that that photo could only be made available if the form was sent back. These are Kafkaian situations, Minister, where something needs to be done. I shall then come to my question. What are you going to do to improve the user-friendliness of this system?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u31	Mr President, Mr Degroote, I am grateful that you immediately inform me of all the Kafkaian situations of the new system. When Tax-on-web started fifteen years ago, Kafka was also around, and I dare even look at colleague Van Quickenborne when I say that. In the beginning, systems have childhood diseases. When we put the system into effect, Mr Jambon and I said that we will fight these childhood diseases with the courage that it requires. This kind of question goes with that, of course. I wasn't prepared for that person in Namur. You'll forgive me for that. I'll have that examined. Last weekend, one of the external suppliers accidentally removed the account number from the print file during a quality check. That's recovered and you don't have to worry. All those affected will receive an alert and will not be sanctioned because they pay too late. In general, 69.3% of traffic offences are of excessive speed. So there is a great need for automation here. The slowness of the system to which you refer, which is typical for an initial period, does not result in the system being underused. On the contrary, bpost will perform a technical intervention this afternoon to increase the capacity of its website by a factor of 5. We are following this as closely as possible, but I am sensitive to your questions and comments and we are continuing to fight against childhood diseases. You said March 1st. It's not June 1st. There will certainly be others, but we will persevere. Tax-on-web is still not very user-friendly today. I say that in the absence of the Minister of Finance, but I have also been in that post. People also get used to user unfriendliness. That's what you'll find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u32	Minister, as a Member of Parliament, I think it is our job to report such situations to you. As you know, we are doing so constructively. I am pleased that you have heard this and that you wish to remedy the situation outlined. Allow me to give you some tips to do something about it. In such cases, for example, it may be possible to indicate on the form whether or not the car of the person concerned was in that place. A space can also be provided for handwritten comments that can be sent electronically. A third, perhaps very efficient tip, could be that the photo is sent directly, from the beginning, because that could avoid a lot of red tape. Finally, we must be careful not to fall victim to the digital divide. There are also older people, people with disabilities or people without computers. The system must also be user-friendly for those people. Thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u33	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, pension is a right and an achievement that concerns everyone: our young people, our old people and our elderly. The People's Party does not dispute the need to reform the system. This has not been the case for a long time and our society, as well as the labour market, has evolved. It is quite normal for the pension system to follow this sociological development. This is a sensitive subject and a large-scale project. That's why you split it into several parts. You cannot deny that there are concerns about this issue, and the word is weak. All workers, all employees in all sectors, all trades, all professions, including the self-employed, are asking themselves questions about their future in terms of career duration, pension amount, but also in terms of recognition of hardship. We all know that social security must be financed. We live in a country where social security coverage is at the forefront. The left in general and the unions in particular do not facilitate your work. They are content to disinform the citizens, to maintain the blur by interpreting your reform in different ways. This exacerbates concerns, but also creates deep discomfort. But it must be noted that no one can be found in your explanations. Even the Federation of Enterprises of Belgium (FEB) or the Union of Middle Classes are in the nebulous. We had the proof of this again last night at the RTBF: the FGTB and an opposition party did not make any consistent comments in the debate. You were talking about reform, they were talking about refinancing policy. We're jumping from one side of your reform to the other on the basis of misinterpretations and truncated interpretations. There's obviously a big communication problem. Minister, when do you intend to propose a clear, clear and precise text of your reform? We cannot leave millions of people in such profound uncertainty on such a sensitive and important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I hope you listened carefully yesterday to the 60 000 people who argued against your policy. [[By the way, there were over 60 000.]] After all, the problem is very widespread among the population, including those who were not present yesterday. I can assure you that the problem lives very widely. A lot of people are very worried. I therefore expect you, in your capacity as Minister, to have a little more respect for those who stand up for their rights and for a full pension, rather than dismissing the demonstration as a failure diverse. You weren't there, Minister, but I was. What did I see? I've seen construction workers, workers, teachers, nurses and nurses. I've seen people who haven't argued before, but they've been there by now. Young and old. And people for whom it was a long time ago that they had argued. They were there now, because they absolutely cannot accept your policy and because they have had enough now. Minister, you find the protest incomprehensible. People have to work longer for less retirement. People with a hard job don't know what they're up to. People who have worked for more than 45 years and become unemployed at the end of their career will have fewer pensions in the future. The treated periods are affected. That's enough to protest, I'd say. And then there is the uncertainty, the great uncertainty. The last demonstration involved 25 000 people, now they were 60 000. So you have certainly not removed the uncertainty. As I said last time, I would once again advise you to stand on the work floor yourself. Why don't you stand in front of a class or go help yourself in a retirement home? It would make you change your policy! Your reforms undermine our social system. I don't have to tell you, but you've been deluded into your reforms. My question is, then, how will you prepare for a second seat? Let us be clear, by minimising matters and by raising the middle finger to anyone who has argued, you will not succeed in stopping the protest. On the contrary, it will increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u35	Mr Bacquelaine, do you know how many days you have left as Minister of Pensions? It's 335. Four years have gone by and you have less than a year, 335 days, to turn your pension policy into something. So far, the result is uncertainty, uncertainty, uncertainty. Yesterday, on television, I heard Deputy Prime Minister Peeters of CD&V with great determination claiming that the government's pension policy still has vision. What the government has done over the past four years is simply to increase retirement ages in all possible ways. There is no solution for the heavy-duty professions. There's no workable work. There is no solution for pensioners in poverty. One in seven 65-plussers has a pension below the poverty threshold of 1 150 euros. A stay in a rest home costs 1 500 euros. For the sake of clarity, we in Ecolo-Green also oppose those who do not want to reform in any way. Longer working will be part of the solution, but part of a balanced whole. I believe that bridge builders are needed, Minister. We must move away from polarisation in the pension debate. After all, pensions are of interest to everyone. Young, old, everyone! A social consensus is needed. You have not been able to create that consensus in four years. That is a particularly heavy responsibility, I think, for a Minister of Pensions. In this respect, I must say that the language of the last few days of, among other things, Open Vld and the dedain, the disdain with which people have spoken about demonstrators fighting for their retirement, really bumps my heart. Open Vld speaks of a raised middle finger, while it concerns real people with real problems. These are people who do not know how much pension they will get, people who do not know whether they will continue to work hard, but who already know that they will have to work longer. Minister, what measures will you take to ensure that we still have a humane and fair pension policy and get everyone involved in your story?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u36	Mr President, yesterday between 50 and 60 000 people took part in the streets of Brussels. That's not very small. Let us admit that. At the same time, more than 4 million people, the large, tacit majority of the Belgians, were at work during that demonstration. That is the reality. Of course, a lot of people ask questions about their retirement. Will our pension be sufficient, will we be able to work until retirement? Those are very legitimate questions. At the same time, people also know that the challenges are enormous. It is well known that the Belgian is now retiring on average at 60 years. That is the lowest figure in Europe. Do you know that only 10% of people work up to 65? Do you know that pension expenditure amounts to EUR 46 billion a year, the largest item in our country's expenditure? In other words, people are very well aware of what reality is. Then we have a choice. The first choice is to ignore all of this, to hold on to the indefenable privileges, to promise people that less work will give them more pensions and that they will come to the streets against any measure. This is the path which the government trade unions are going over and over again. That is the way of selfishness, that is the way of shortsightedness. Ladies and gentlemen, the other way is the way the government is going, the way of reform. Step by step, we are reasonably asking people to work a little longer. That is indeed not the easy way. That's the hard way. But that is the way forward. Minister, since 2011, since a liberal occupied the seat of Minister of Pensions, there have been results. One should look at the employment rate of 55-plussers. It increased by 10 percentage points during that period. That is the highest increase in Europe. One has to look at the pension amounts. They have increased by between EUR 100 and EUR 150 net per month under the government, for minimum pensions, for employees and self-employed persons. That's the government's job. That is the path that we must continue to follow. Minister, the only path you can follow is the path of further reform. Don't blush. Keep going. What's your response to that demonstration and strike? What will you do the year that you have left to further improve people's pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u37	Mr Minister, there were between 50,000 and 60,000 citizens yesterday during the pension march. The least we can say is that the concern was extremely important – not only among the demonstrators, Mr Van Quickenborne, but also among those who worked yesterday. Of the silent majority that you have assimilated to membership of your government, I can tell you that there is indeed also a great deal of concern and anger about the way this government has worked. Yes, pension reforms are essential. That's right! At the same time, to make these reforms a success, we must be able to win a broad acceptance of the population. We're extremely far from it! The concern we see, the social tensions, the great manifestation of yesterday, is first of all the result of your action. In the background, the government is reaping what it has sown. You have made the choice to go, from the beginning of the legislature, to confrontation. You have made the choice of going to the balance of power with the unions rather than opting for a peaceful dialogue. You have taken brutal decisions, tough decisions, for example the reduction of the pension at the age of 67 in a unilateral and immediate manner. The rest of the measures that were really successful in accompanying a comprehensive reform, for example, the difficult jobs, are not making any progress. This project is still under way and does not end. Obviously, like what I have just heard, we can make strong statements. I have no doubt that the government is able to continue in its confrontational attitude. At the same time, another option is possible. It is the task of concert, of hearing yesterday's message, of responding to the strong message sent by the demonstrators and of taking initiatives. Minister, are you going to choose the path of confrontation or, on the contrary, are you going to take initiatives to renew social dialogue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u38	Minister, we have indeed carried out many reforms with this government to ensure that our pensions are affordable. Above all, we want to ensure that pensions remain good. Reforms have sometimes been speedy, hence the great concern. Yesterday, a lot of people testified about that. We often understand this concern. A pension is something one stands for. Even if only a few years have passed, one wonders whether it will last, when one will be able to retire, what amount one will get and whether his profession will be recognized as a heavy occupation. We also hear young people every day wondering whether there will be a pension for them and how it will be guaranteed. People make plans. They wonder whether they will be able to take care of their grandchildren or whether they will have to work longer. Partly this uncertainty is created, also because the information is not always clear. If it is said here every day that everyone will have to work until the age of 67, then we know that this is not right. We know that a person who starts on 18 years after a career of 45 years will not have to retire on 67 years. However, a number of things are often forgotten. On the other hand, pension legislation is a complex piece of legislation, not everyone knows the basic principles. A lot of stories are told that are not clear to everyone. Mr Minister, change always creates uncertainty. That's a law that we're aware of. Even if people do not always agree with what they say, we must still dare to recognise that uncertainty exists and that we must take it seriously. Above all, we must consider how we can strengthen the basis for our pension reforms. We must be able to provide that certainty, Minister. We are counting on you for that, too. We believe that it is important to provide the necessary information. There must be sufficient transitional periods so that long-term work can be carried out. However, we believe that dialogue with the social partners is particularly important in order to strengthen support and build bridges. So, Minister, we are asking how you will restore confidence in pensions? Then people can confidently say that they are sure that they will get their pension later, but that they are sure that they will get a good pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, guaranteeing our seniors decent pensions at a decent age is a matter of respect and social justice. Yesterday, as my colleagues said, we were more than 60,000 going down the street, with a tide of red, green and blue workers also coming from the three regions of our country. Why? To demand the end of your pension destruction policy. The situation has become untenable. I met many pensioners or future pensioners yesterday, but not only. They are very worried and their questions are clear. How old am I going to have to work? Will I be able to do this? Will I have enough pension to live with dignity? Minister, they're sick of it. They're tired of your reforms on their backs. They suffer and fear even more for the rest. What about the removal of the tantieths? What about penitibility with a largely insufficient envelope? They may be able to leave earlier but with a planed pension or a point pension that will make them and their pension an adjustment variable. Minister, have you finally heard these concerns? For weeks, you've been creating fog. You're putting the Belgians in a blur. Stop being afraid by saying that the system is unpayable! It's archi-false! Stop being afraid by shaking up a pointless and unjust pension! Stop creating false hopes with pseudo recognition of penitibility! Minister, what are you going to do? What does your government want for the next few months? Finally be clear with us!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u40	Minister, 70,000 people in the streets of Brussels yesterday... you don't like it when there's a world, do you? I met workers, employees, teachers, airplane pilots, unemployed workers,... It was incredible, for those who had the chance to be here yesterday, to see the diversity of the world of work present. What a camouflage for all those who hoped that the social movement would quietly fade away! You were hoping for it, weren't you? We heard it was going to settle down. That is not the case at all, minister. You really made a mistake in your calculation. The world of work remains mobilized! Why, Minister? Not just because your reform is not clear, on the contrary! You said yesterday on the radio that people did not understand the substance of your reform. But I asked them during the demonstration: "Have you understood the reform of the minister well?" And they all told me that they understood it, of course. They know where you want to take them, but they don't share your options. They don't agree with you. That's why, minister, you need to start thinking. But we don't like it... To those who do not participate in the demonstrations, I would like to say: "Organize one in favour of the government, in support of its proposals!" How many will you be? Fifteen, turning on the spot? That's the problem! You're scared. That is why the minister is taking one step forward and two steps backwards. Yeah, you're scared. You're right. You're afraid of the vote! Is there a party with a 67-year-old pension program? Is there one party with that point in her program? No, of course not. Nobody voted for a pension at 67 years old. You lied. Mr President, I know they're nervous, but we have to call them to order. This morning we presented a study and I challenge the right to show what is wrong with this study. I challenge you for the next few days. The study of the Labour Party of Belgium is a comparative study of pensions in the same career in the neighbouring countries. Pensions in Belgium are 50% lower than in France and 50% lower than in Luxembourg. I challenge you to show what is wrong with this study over the next few days. If you can't do that within the week, shut up about the numbers. 50 % lower, that's the problem. During yesterday's demonstration, we saw clearly that people do not agree. I hear Bart De Wever saying that such a demonstration is incomprehensible. Well, it makes sense that someone like Bart De Wever cannot understand that, with a pension of EUR 6 500 in the pocket. The Flemish people can be sure of that: 6 500 euros pension for Bart De Wever and he says he cannot understand the demonstrators. Of course not, he lives in a completely different world, with a pension of EUR 6 500. Minister, are you going to continue to impose the pension on a point-by-point basis as it is designed today, or are you finally going to step back on these unjust social reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u41	Mr Minister, yesterday I was with colleagues from Ecolo and Groen, activists from Ecolo and Groen, tens of thousands of Belgians, Wallons, Flamands, Brussels, in the streets of Brussels. I have met many teachers, many workers who work a heavy job, pensioners, Belgian citizens at the same time determined and worried. They were a few tens of thousands but they represented many other Belgians. They're worried about their future, about their children's future. They are concerned about whether they will reach the age of sixty-seven that you have imposed as a pension age, regardless of the length of their work or their health conditions. They are worried about the recognition of their unworked assimilated periods that your government, like Mr. Di Rupo's, has diminished. They are concerned about this point pension system, the value of which may vary depending on elements that are completely independent of their careers and efforts: the state of the debt or the economic situation. They're worried not because they didn't understand what you were trying to do, but because they excelly understood the meaning of the reforms you want to impose. Contrary to what you say, they are not opposed to reforms. They even want it. They want reforms that take into account the length of their career and allow them to access the pension earlier, with a suitable amount, if they have had a difficult job – especially the teachers. By considering that psychological pressure alone could not generate recognition as a painful function, you exclude them de facto from a potential recognition as a painful function. They also want our State, especially women, to raise the average pensions, which are now far too low. Mr. Minister of Pensions, my only question is whether you have heard those 50 to 70,000 people on the street. Will you finally act in the direction of greater dignity and decent income for all current and future pensioners who are suffering from an unfair pension system today, and who will be even more so after the action of this government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your interest in pension reform. I would like to point out that I take seriously, of course, the messages expressed by the demonstrators both in terms of taking account of penitibility and in terms of point pensions, which were the two main themes of this event. With regard to taking account of penitibility, it seems to me legitimate for trade union organisations to echo their affiliates and to express demands for recognition of the tenability of certain functions. I would like to recall that this matter has been discussed at length by the National Pension Committee and that the results of its work have been taken into account in the drafting of the draft legislation which was approved at first reading by the Council of Ministers on 4 April. The social dialogue on the texts and the lists of major functions must now continue. As from next week, the texts of the preliminary draft law will be examined by the A Committee and the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service. I know that the expectations of this dossier are high, but we must remain reasonable. Not all functions will be recognized as severely. The lists of heavy-duty jobs will be drawn up in close consultation with the social partners by taking into account the objective elements of the heavy-duty professions, as defined by the National Pension Committee. This reform is fundamental. It will allow for the granting of new, additional rights to workers who will benefit from recognition of penitibility. This recognition will allow them to retire earlier or, if they so decide, to pursue their professional career and thus benefit from a supplementary pension. My will is to allow the reform to enter into force, as foreseen in the text, on 1 January 2020. With regard to point pensions, I would point out that, contrary to what I have heard, the government's proposal for point pensions is no different from that proposed by the Committee on Pension Reform chaired by Frank Vandenbroucke, which brings together academic figures from different backgrounds and political sensitivities. We are defending this project, which represents real social progress. First of all because it will allow, based more on the career rather than on the age of the worker, to put an end to the greatest inequality in the different life expectancy of the workers, linked to their socio-occupational situation. Secondly, it will guarantee, in the future, a change in pension rights in line with wage developments and not only with indexation. A parameter is re-established in the calculation of the pension which will guarantee a higher replacement rate than is currently the case. Finally, because this system ensures greater equity between workers. It is this project proposed by the academic council that I support, and not the one denounced today by the unions. I want to be very clear and I will go so far as to say that, if the point pension project was the one now presented by the unions, I would be happy to demonstrate with them because that is not the project I support. Indeed, in the project supported by the government, the value of the point will not diminish. No, point pension is not a budget adjustment variable and, no, point pension is not a lottery, unlike situations that prevail today in our pension system and are deeply unfair and unfair. Like the members of the Academic Council who have recently expressed their views on this subject, I am surprised by the image that the trade unions have spread to the population. It does not correspond to reality and therefore causes unrest. This is also surprising, because the trade union representatives are perfectly familiar with this draft, as it was presented to them by the President of the Academic Council and was discussed in detail in the National Pension Committee, which, by the way, submitted a final report in January of this year. It is true that this design has been the most important since the introduction of our pension system and that it undoubtedly requires a continuation of the discussions. That is why I will shortly invite the social partners and the members of the Academic Council to resume the debate on this fundamental issue, which should ensure the long-term sustainability of our pension system. Reform is important enough for us to give ourselves the time to work together to achieve a project that can achieve the objectives I have just set out; goals of equity and social performance which, I think, have broad support within society. I would like to point out that, contrary to what has been said so far, the reform we are carrying out will ensure that pensions are paid in the long term. It strengthens the link between pension and career. It will ensure that those who work a lot longer and harder have a higher pension than it has been so far. Guaranteeing pensions also means taking into account future generations. I have not heard any comments today on intergenerational solidarity. But that is fundamental. Our pension system must guarantee it. That is what we are doing and what we are going to continue to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u43	Minister, there are many points of concern because they are little or no specific. After four years, it is time to make a clear, precise speech and to stop referring the case back to the social partners who are ultimately only trying to overturn your reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that you listened to the people who argued yesterday, but not so well. Solidarity between generations, Minister, was very clear yesterday. There were a lot of young people, there were a lot of older people. You are mistaken. Solidarity is very clear. You argue that thanks to your reform, those who work longer will also receive more pension. I contradicted you earlier, because those who started working before their 20th worked for more than 45 years, but who become unemployed at the end of their career, have fewer pensions with your reforms. Imagine, colleagues, less pension! If you have worked for more than 45 years, you will receive less pension! That's not true. You asked Mrs. Becq. She told you the same thing. That's not true! You love to refer to the Academic Council. Let us look again at the original report, Minister. There are two important issues here: dialogue and capital financing. Mr Van Quickenborne, you must dare. You say the people who argued yesterday are selfish. That's what you said earlier. You say that they mainly defend irresponsible privileges. Mr Van Quickenborne, who protested very strongly here when there was going to be a wage ceiling for parliamentarians who accumulate? Who? You! Do you, Mr Van Quickenborne, dare to lecture people who stand up for a just and full pension? Well, that's outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u45	Minister, your answer is not reassuring the questions put yesterday by 70 000 demonstrators in the streets of Brussels. I hear the tone's getting louder and louder. Mr Van Quickenborne calls the protesters selfish. It is easy to do that from Parliament. It is easy to declare reforms from Parliament and to call those who are worried about their pensions selfish. Is it true that we are creating a basis for the reforms in our pension policy? Is it true that we are dealing with criticism and justified concern among people, namely by putting them away as selfish? That's irresponsible language. This does not lead to greater support for our pensions. Colleagues, a human, fair and balanced pension policy must give people security and dignity. This is done with a basic pension, a sufficiently strong statutory pension. Focus on that! This is done by providing solutions for people who are engaged in a heavy occupation and who are still eagerly looking forward to what the government can do for them, knowing that their retirement age is already rising. Mr Minister, these are some of the slopes that we want to put forward. You have 335 days left. I'd say use those days wisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u46	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, it is not the first strike. It's the seventh strike, the seventh demonstration in a row since 2011. The demonstrations against pensions started in 2011, when a government had the courage to start pension reform. Those who were responsible then, the Socialists who are here, have now turned their backs. They have turned their carts, because now it is too difficult to continue to reform. That is the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you in peace and calm that we, together with the Socialist Party, which is doing litter pollution here, have approved what it is now blaming us for. That was unanimously approved, also by yourself, Mrs Temmerman! Minister, I welcome your statement that you are continuing the reforms and that you are continuing to study retirement with the social partners. However, I also hope that you will take effective steps to do what Frank Vandenbroucke and his committee have proposed, namely to set up a pension system with points of security and solidarity for people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u47	Mr President, Minister, in this government, some partners of the majority, who could expect respect and a minimum of listening to the strong signal sent yesterday, have managed, despite the circumstances, to show contempt and to adopt an attitude of closure vis-à-vis the general population, which I find particularly surprising. They have thus embarked on a path that may not lead to positive changes in some of the reforms and, first and foremost, those in the area of pensions, which are nevertheless indispensable. Minister, this time you did not make a fussing statement. I mean, in any case, your willingness to work together. The problem is that this is not the first time. Indeed, even if you have expressed your choice of consultation on several occasions, you have taken decisions unilaterally against trade union positions. Let us recognize that there is a gulf between your remarks today and the great concern of the population. You don't have much time left. If you want to make positive progress, you have only one solution: to listen, to explain, to inform and to consult by ignoring the position of the government which, from the beginning, consists of a concertation of facades.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u48	Mr President, Minister, people are concerned and wonder when they can retire and how much their pension will be. Some work in an unsafe environment, under harsh conditions or do weekend or night work, and they live with stress and wonder if they will last. Others wonder whether they will still be able to count on solidarity when they become ill, or unemployed, or when they have to take care leave for their children or for their parents. Well, the concern of all those people, that's also our concern. And that's important. Minister, I hear you saying that you want to continue to consult with the social partners. We're glad to hear that. However, this consultation cannot be started with a raised finger, but with an outstretched hand; this is how the talks must begin. It is not polarisation that should be sought, but cooperation. We must take care of the people who argued yesterday and ask questions about their pensions, but also those who were working yesterday and also asking questions about their pensions. We also want to take this concern with us. There will have to be longer work, but people also need to know that this remains feasible for them. I call on everyone to build bridges instead of fighting and bidding. We must ensure that longer work is possible for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u49	Minister, you say you took the protesters' message seriously. But we don't believe you anymore. You said, before the election, "Don't touch the 65s!", You went up to 67 directly. How do you want to be believed? You always come back with the same arguments and, I am tempted to say, with the same incomprehension. Your motto is simple: to force workers to work ever longer, up to 67 years, or even beyond, to earn a small pension. For us, this is unacceptable. What we want is a decent pension from the age of 65. And it's financial! Yes, it's financial. By 2060, GDP will increase by 400 billion euros. It is necessary to manage its redistribution and the basis of funding. For you, solidarity must be intergenerational. Yes! But it must also be a solidarity between all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u50	Minister, I have three important points of reflection. The first is that you are talking about the two versions, the academic committee and the trade unions. I think we need to read a little more about the academic committee. The question of the fluctuation in the value of the point as a function of the State debt is taken up again. That is why the PTB obviously rejects it. It is not because Frank Vandenbroucke is in favour of it that the real left is going to be in favour too, Minister! It's not with that kind of argument you're going to win. A second argument seems important to me. The study we have produced shows that the pension gap between France and Luxembourg on the one hand and Belgium on the other is widening. However, there is a country that is reducing the pension gap, especially Germany. In Germany, the pension was introduced with points in 2002. It is therefore clear that pensions are lower in countries that have introduced the pension with points. Then, Minister, you want to oppose the generations. And this is not the first time the MR has tried to do it. In 2005, with the Covenant of Generations, together with the socialist friends who sit behind me, you had already suggested that the abolition of pre-pensions would preserve solidarity between generations. That is why the workers had renamed this measure "Anti-generation Pact". We must stop trying to persuade the population that thinking about the future of young people is about sacrificing current pensions. If you want true solidarity, establish it between those who are rich and have great assets and those who have less means. That is the solidarity that must be built, instead of opposing generations as you do today!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u51	Mr.Minister, what we and the citizens who were defiling yesterday told you is that they do not accept that pensions are the government's fiscal adjustment variable. Contrary to what you support through your denials, this has been the case since the beginning of the legislature. Mr. Van Quickenborne described those who were on the street as selfish. For your part, minister, you said on the radio that they didn't understand anything and that they refused the reforms. But no, it's not true: they aspire to reforms to take account of the tenability of certain careers, by means of inclusive criteria and by means of a sufficient envelope – which is absent from the negotiations within the government –, with also corrective measures – especially in favour of women, whose pensions are currently too low –, with career adaptations for tired or sick workers who want to continue – but under less pressure –, with finally a refinancing of our pension system. Indeed, the report that you regularly use to justify your measures essentially indicated that the Minister of Pensions had to fight for sufficient resources to be allocated to intergenerational solidarity. You don't, you're the accountant of this government, you're the minister of the budget. You must fight for decent and sufficient pensions, Mr Bacquelaine!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u52	Minister, since 2015, I have alerted you to the risks that have now emerged as flagrant, as the current legislative framework is lacunae, in terms of the sufficiency and protection of nuclear supplies. Sufficiency, availability and protection are elements that have been regularly reflected in our discussions in Parliament, whether in the form of oral questions or reports that you have received from ONDRAF, or from the Committee on Nuclear Supplies. Since 2015, your answers are systematically the same: "We are working on it". It is now 2018, more than three years have passed and you have still not tabled a text that will strengthen the legislative framework in this area. This morning, we learned a new financial operation in the Head of Engie, which will repatriate to the parent company and empty more Electrabel by 1.6 billion euros. All of this by taking advantage of the fact that the long-awaited legislative framework has not yet been tabled by your government. In doing so, Minister Engie organises the fact that it is no longer the polluter who should pay for the management of his nuclear waste, but the Belgian citizen who will have to contribute to it. This is unacceptable as far as we are concerned. You need to strengthen the framework on the "sustainability of resources" component and you also need to strengthen the legislative framework on the "availability of these means" component. Two questions. When are you going to submit these texts? Will you, as the ONDRAF wishes, outsource the resources and, for example, deposit this ten billion euros which are there for the provisions on dismantling and waste management in an account at the National Bank of Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u53	Mr President, Mr Nollet, as you know, Electrabel is responsible for providing for the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing the fuel intake. These provisions are the responsibility of Synatom, the provisioning company. I have therefore written to Synatom urging him to make sure, within eight years, that the company Electrabel offers sufficient guarantees to meet its obligations, both its obligations as borrower and its legal obligations as debtor of nuclear supplies, namely polluter-pays. I am sending a copy of my letter to the Committee on Nuclear Supplies (CPN), which provides prudential control over Synatom and, shortly, I will submit a draft to Parliament with a view to strengthening the resources available to the CPN and its powers. With regard to the provisions under the responsibility of Synatom, I would remind you that, thanks to my action, with the help of the CPN in this field, since 2014, we have been allowed to increase the amount by more than 3 billion, from 7.6 billion to more than 11 billion at the end of this year and, this, in line with the revaluations made by ONDRAF. The next re-evaluation of these provisions is likely to lead to a substantial increase, following ONDRAF assessments, in the estimated costs of geological storage projects. We have many exchanges on this subject in committee. Thus, the 1,641 billion dividends paid by Electrabel to Engie in kind must not prevent him from meeting his obligations and paying Synatom, as appropriate, the billions needed on the basis of successive revaluations, since the aim is to avoid delaying undue burdens on future generations. In this context, with the strengthening of the CNP's powers and the possibility for it to act increasingly strongly, we will be able to continue to guide the necessary provisioning, based on ONDRAF's assessments, by the operator Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u54	Madam Minister, it is not for nothing that this operation of emptying Electrabel to the tune of 1.6 billion is taking place today. This is precisely because it is well known that the amounts to be provided will be increased by the end of the year. It's not unrelated. I will note positively the fact that you have asked SYNATOM to justify itself within eight days. It is a positive point that must be stressed because it will be the responsibility of SYNATOM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Electrabel, to show you that it still has the means not only for the 11 billion that is already being discussed, but also for the increase that is expected by the end of the year. I regret the fact that the text is not yet in Parliament to guarantee it, but I hear - and you say it in the President's ear - that it will come. I hope, Madam Minister, that it will not be too late and that Electrabel will not have been emptied by her parent company, when we will need this money so that it is not the Belgian taxpayer who pays but the polluter that ENGIE Electrabel is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u55	Colleagues, Minister, would we finally have decisions on airport nuisances? Can we finally get a white smoke? Unless what we're reading in the press today is just another announcement effect. In responding to a whole series of court decisions, have you finally decided to clarify this 7-knot standard of winds, from which the use of the 5 preferential tracks of the left and right turns, or is this question again postponed to the Greek calends, pending the opinions of both? Minister, is a decision made? Are there any others? Last November, you promised to come back with what you called the Quick Wins, five decisions. Where are we? You also promised, in response to a court decision, to come quickly with an impact study. I hear it's not even launched. Should we still expect anything from you, minister? Have you decided to sit on this issue for the rest of the legislature as you have been doing since the beginning? It is a simple but precise question that I ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u56	Colleagues, Minister, like many concerned citizens, I have read with interest the article on aircraft noise in this morning's Echo. Following the audit on the use of runways in Brussels-National, Belgocontrol and DGDA recommended, inter alia, the clarification of wind standards. So this is a positive step forward on this very complicated issue. Minister, can you inform us in detail about the principle of your proposal on these wind standards and its impact on areas affected by noise pollution? Does your proposal concern only these wind standards or other measures, are other decisions also being considered? Today, what about the environmental cessation that requires strict compliance with noise standards on the take-off road of Runway 25, known as the Canal Road? This is particularly true of the Brussels people. What is the status of the discussions on these proposals? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I still observe that the content of a meeting held yesterday is in the press. I will not comment on the figures given, as a number of figures are not accurate. My proposal follows the conclusions of the audit I requested from DGTA on the use of the PRS (Preferential Runway System) at Brussels-National Airport between 2 and 10 October 2016. The actors you heard in the Infrastructure Committee all called for clarification of the instructions in force. On this basis, I have advanced to present a package of clarified standards that would allow controllers to work in a clearer and more secure environment. The current confusion between past instructions and standards must be eliminated, which leads to sometimes difficult air route choices. The multiplicity of instructions taken in the past creates a situation in which today auditors are questioned by investigating judges on the choice of leads. In practice, my proposal maintains the use of preferential runways and therefore the airport's preferential operating logic for longer. My proposal clarifies the wind standards. We must actually exceed the 7 knots of aft wind to deviate from the PRS, and no longer anticipate hours and hours before arriving at the 7 knots. With regard to the definition of the gust, I take up the ICAO rules, which is the international standard, which has not been applied to date in Belgium. I would also like to combine this clarification with a new take-off procedure to reduce ground noise, with "faster" take-off aircraft. On the other hand, a similar measure could be taken on landing with the CDO (Continuous Descent Operation). My intention, through this clarification note, is to comply with the 2008 and 2010 airport agreements of Secretary of State Schouppe, as provided for in the government agreement. This proposal has not yet reached a consensus. The discussions are continuing and I am ensuring that the solution benefits the inhabitants of the three regions of our country: Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. With regard to the impact study ordered because judgment required it, it was just ordered a few hours ago, following the analysis of the tenders received. The study office will therefore begin its work in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u58	Minister, that's what I thought. You have spoken of wishes and proposals... I think the word 'proposal' has come back ten times in your speech. Minister, we do not ask you to make proposals but to decide and implement. It is part of your mandate as Minister of Mobility to clarify wind standards. You do not need to hold inter-cabinet meetings (IKW), or a Council of Ministers. No, not at all! Clarification of wind standards is part of your own responsibilities. You can go! You can decide! You can implement. It's too easy to say here, under the pressure of the residents (because they're tired of it) that 'you would have liked it but it's not quite possible yet'. Indeed, especially in the east of Brussels, they are currently heavily overflew. No, minister, what you're asked here is to decide. I remind you that 97% of the night landings in 01 are in violation of the July 2017 judgment. Minister, I ask you to come with proposals quickly, before the end of this Parliament, in order to relieve all the residents around the airport with structural proposals, proposals on the night, relating to compliance with the PRS. That is what you are being asked, Minister. And we ask you to go right away, without any additional ad effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u59	On the contrary, I would say that the minister is moving forward with very concrete proposals tabled on the government table. There have been very positive developments. If the minister's concrete proposal is accepted, it will stabilize the preferential use of runway 25, which is also a guarantee for safety. It will prevent Belgocontrol from anticipating runway changes on the basis of weather forecasts but on the contrary on the basis of real weather, which is also positive. I would therefore like to highlight the efforts that have been made on this very complex issue, which has been going on for years, to bring about measures that, on the contrary, can be beneficial to as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u60	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this week the Council of Ministers (Kern) has approved a preliminary draft law which will put an end to the moratorium on the confinement of minors with or without a closed centre. My group associates itself with the indignation that this news has provoked in the community and in civil society because – we must remind you – a child is a child; a child whether at the end of the right of residence or not is a child; a child without paper or not remains a child. And at no time should a child be placed behind a fence. You are announcing an expenditure for the creation of these two million euro places of confinement and the employment of 19 people, 14 of whom are dedicated to the maintenance of security. Fortunately among these people is a teacher. But what is expensive to you is its moral cost. Once again you are moving forward in your policy of criminalizing abroad. You criminalize children who are already the first victims of conflict in their country of origin and you lock them up. Worse still, in your majority, no one's arresting you. Mr Franken, can you transmit to us today the text of this royal decree submitted to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u62	It's okay. I'm used to it. It always proceeds in this way. I come back to my questions. What alternative measures to detention by this government demonstrate that the option you are retaining today is the only one that is possible? Finally, how do you guarantee the Constitutional Court's requirement that minor children should not be subject to the same maintenance regime as parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to remind Mrs Fernandez Fenandez that she is protesting today against the completion of a project decided by the Government of Mr. Van Rompuy in which the PS played a key role. Indeed, the project for the construction of closed housing units for families was launched in October 2009 with the total support of the PS. Ladies and gentlemen, these housing units are essential in order to complete the policy of returning families in illegal residence who refuse to return to their country of origin. Failure to provide for such a possibility will lead to total tolerance for the illegal stay of each foreigner with a minor child in our country. Such tolerance is non-existent in Europe. That is why we are not going to accept such a situation here. Belgium is a State governed by the rule of law. This requires respect for the law, and therefore for the legal decisions of the public authority. Furthermore, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez's proposal amounted to making it impossible to forcibly repatriate families residing illegally. This would run counter to European legislation, including the Schengen Agreements and the Return Directive. With the forthcoming opening of these housing units, our country will finally return to European normality. Indeed, the temporary confinement of families in illegal residence has always been considered absolutely normal in all our neighbours. Of course, the government will rigorously ensure that the possibility of temporary confinement is applied only as a last resort and for as short a period as possible. Families who are ordered to leave the territory will first be ordered to leave voluntarily, with the financial assistance of the authorities. In case of refusal, they may be taken to open return centres, where they will receive intensive supervision for their repatriation. If they still fail to comply with their legal obligations to return and choose to dive into illegality, they may be taken to a closed housing unit. We will put everything in order to make the stay as comfortable as possible. Each family concerned will have a private unit. Activities will be planned for children. Finally, the right to education will continue to be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u64	Mr Secretary of State, it was under the Van Rompuy government that the PS supported the moratorium on the confinement of children, as well as under the Di Rupo government, when the bill already existed. But it has never been applied, but you are doing so today. There are solutions to confinement, Mr. Franken, but your administration does not use it. With the complicity of the entire government, you're going to put children behind fences. The truth, Mr. Franken, is that these children who go to school and play in the playground with our people and participate in the lives of our communities, are only foreigners to you. And we know what fate you have in store for them. We will discuss this again during the debate on the proposed law introduced by the Socialist Party, which aims to prohibit the confinement of children.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u65	We have come to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u66	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Carina Van Cauter, Egbert Lachaert, Laurette Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Terwingen, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u68	Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of this draft law. This is a reduction in the workload for the judicial system, allowing for faster and more quality handling of the files. This may not be the sexiest-looking design, but ultimately this design will reduce the workload. It concerns extracts from the marital status which should no longer be requested from the Registry, the preservation of documents of conviction or the cover, as stated in the legal jargon of certain non-compliances so that proceedings can continue. The rules governing the notification of judgments are also simplified. Moreover, it is also about the information technology used for the digital handling of receipts or the legal anchoring of digital records. In addition, there are two other points I would like to highlight. On the one hand, there is the power of the peace court and the increase in the amount of the cases for which it is competent to pay EUR 5 000. This actually means that more things will be able to be dealt with closer to people because the justice of peace is also closer to them. In this way, the smaller files are brought closer to the people. In addition, this will also reduce the workload at first instance level. On the other hand, there is the adjustment in the divorce procedure with mutual consent. The compulsory appearance before a court is currently valid even if couples are separated for less than six months. This is also a simplification of divorce with mutual consent. This is a form of divorce which we are in favour of to the extent that agreements can be concluded between people and if agreement is reached. We also think it is important to include in addition the elements that we provide for a parental plan, because we believe that parents together retain responsibility for their children, even when they break up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u69	Mr. Chair, I would like to go back to the way we worked on this bill in committee. I regret the method used. The majority tabled 79 amendments on a text that initially included 35 articles. These amendments concerned matters that were not part of the original bill. This text has therefore been completely transformed. It no longer deals with the judicial and civil codes, but with a variety of provisions. This does not facilitate parliamentary work in committee and, moreover, the opinion of the Council of State is thus avoided. With regard to the justice system and the increase in the competence of Judge ratione summae from €2,500 to €5,000, we are not opposed to this principle, which can be meaningful if this change does not hinder the proper functioning of the justice system. In this case, however, it is difficult, if not impossible, to know the impact that this reform will have on their functioning. In this sense, I regret the working methods used. While some cantons of justice of the peace have just been abolished and the impact of this reform is not yet measured, the jurisdictional thresholds of the justices of the peace are being changed. Is this reform appropriate at the present time when the consequences of the previous one are not yet assessed? What is certain, however, as the Royal Union of Justices of the Peace pointed out in its written opinion, is that a second shift in competence will inevitably lead to an increase in the workload. The Council of State goes so far as to mention the risk of the development of a judicial backlog at cantonal level which has a detrimental effect on the litigant and all citizens. Today, justices of the peace are already almost overburdened with the latest reform which has removed many cantons and seats of justice of the peace. It is not said at all that some cantons such as Liège or Nivelles will now manage to manage and deal with all the cases. The starting point of this reform is in fact not based on any statistical basis. I have reminded him on several occasions in committee. We do not have objective numerical data. The shift of the workload from the courts of first instance to the justices of the peace is based on approximations. This is certainly not serious! It is not serious that Members have not been able to have precise analyses of the workload of the courts concerned or an overview of the changes made to the justices of the peace, even though the increase seems to correspond to an indexation. As the Royal Union of Justices of the Peace once again points out, this eagerness, which too often characterizes the reforms that you are putting in place, will not be of benefit to the magistrates or to the staff of the registry offices, let alone to the people who will be imposed the consequences of a hasty reform. I repeat, we have no fundamental problem with increasing the threshold, but as it stands, there is a real risk of undermining the proper functioning of the justice system. For this reason, my group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u70	Mr President, Minister, this is a text that includes a lot of things. We are used to saying that there is something to drink and eat, good and at least good, sometimes unacceptable. The reduction of the workload, we find it difficult to measure the opportunity or feasibility of it, as the means in terms of FPS Justice statistics are poor, if not absent. It is therefore difficult to project when there are proposals to change the judicial organization. I think that we should be careful not only to ensure efficiency at all costs, but also to check that what we are considering is such as to facilitate the work of judges and judicial staff, but also to allow the people to find themselves in situations where, often, a psychosocial difficulty is added to a legal difficulty. However, some elements of this text are interesting, such as the electronic communication of court decisions. Of course, we will not challenge this modern version of the communication of judgments and judgments. However, here too, the problem among practitioners who are called upon to implement this type of decision concerns the reliability of the computer system of our justice. On several occasions in recent years, it has been realized that this electronicization or computerization of the judicial world has left much to be desired. Often, there is still talk of means that are more like crafts than communications worthy of the twenty-first century. It is therefore to be hoped that the computer system will follow a decision that has its full meaning. With regard to the modification of errors and omissions in judgments, we are of course in favour of simplifying articles 794 et seq. of the Judicial Code, but we have only just amended it. The ink is barely dry as a result of a first legislative amendment. We go even further with an observation from the Council of State that I want to take up and that I think is relevant. I quote: "The text of the preliminary draft actually aims at de facto abolishing the penalty of nullity which has so far been imposed on these shortcomings. The rectification may take place at any time, either ex officio or at the request of a party. This amendment to article 794 of the Judicial Code leads to a very important deformisation of the drafting of judgments." I fully agree that the legal language must be adapted to the current language, without, of course, excessive. However, some formalism may still make sense, so that it does not, in the leadership of those who are required to take these decisions, gradually blur the drafting, the quality of the writing, certain standards, so that we always have decisions that are easily accessible and readable to the people who are litigants. This is an observation that deserves to be considered. As part of our preparatory work — perhaps for those who will read them — we need to look at this element, which may be quite factual, but which is of some importance. What is more problematic, Minister, and has made me hesitate for a long time in the assessment that should be given to your text as a whole, in order to finally lead me to consider that the various advances proposed are perhaps more interesting than the difficulties that will be encountered in implementing it and have decided to vote in favour of it – which does not mean that we have neither remarks nor observations – especially with regard to the new material competence. You want to entrust it to the justice of the peace and increase to 5,000 euros of competence ratione summae. Not so long ago, two or three years ago, the government was planning to increase to 3,000 euros and, as a result of pressure from the Royal Union of Justices of the Peace, had to return to a threshold of 2,500 euros. You're back with a further increase in the threshold. The argument that you put forward holds and does not hold. You say that it is a way of bringing the administration of justice closer to the person in question, of favouring places of proximity and therefore the justice of the peace to make decisions on matters of less than EUR 5 000. That can make sense. We can eventually follow you. But the second reason given, that of a tacit shift that should be addressed between the workload of the justice system and the courts of first instance, leaves me more dubious. There is no objective element to quantify this displacement and to verify whether it has actually taken place. Of course, changes have taken place: the establishment of the Family and Youth Court, an increase in the powers of the Court of First Instance in relation to the competence of the justice of the peace. In addition, the justice of the peace has been entrusted with the competence to deal with the case of persons in a situation of precarization or even of persons placed under temporary administration of persons or property. However, in view of the recent change, we cannot yet draw any tangible lessons, because we do not have the tools to do so. Legislation that entered into force has not yet been evaluated. Quantifying the movement of these files from the first instance to justice of the peace is more of an incantation, in any case a perception of the figures may be correct, but cannot be scientifically and objectively verified. Nor should we forget that this approach is practiced even though we have just changed the judicial cantons. Unless I am mistaken, it seems to me that this reform has been implemented with a fixed amount of EUR 2 500, not the EUR 5 000 that we want to propose today. That is why some of the concerns expressed by the justices of the peace seem to me to be absolutely legitimate. They therefore want to pay attention to this situation. In this case, they fear that tomorrow they will have to deal with matters that fall outside their ordinary competence. Thus, in the case of less regular recourse to opposition when a defendant has been absent, a justice of the peace may be competent in the field of construction, whereas it is not his cup of tea. On the other hand, in the case of leases — the jurisdiction par excellence of justices of the peace — a pre-eminent litigant, as is often the case, suffering from problems of reading or understanding judicial acts will be lacking before the justice of the peace and will not be able to object to them. However, the first adversarial debate on leases will take place before the Court of First Instance. Unfortunately, it is a pity that, through mechanisms such as these and because situations are often dealt with by different legal texts and do not arrive at the same time, we fail to appreciate the coherence or inconsistency that may arise from the way we proceed and legislate. It seems to me that this is a very typical case of this bad organization of our legislative work, of these laws, where we find everything and its opposite, texts between which there is no link. On the other hand, a month earlier or three months later, we will discuss other texts which, however, were related to those previously discussed. Such an operation is a pity and, in my view, it will be necessary to pay attention, minister, to an assessment of the law. This is likely to be necessary in order to correct the shooting, if any, in this area. The other difficulty is the call which will no longer be possible below EUR 2 000. Again, I understand the desire to reduce the burden on the courts of first instance, which sit on a level of appeal. But 2,000 euros, isn't that a lot to prevent the call? In the motivation of your way of raising the threshold of competences ratione materiae, you plead to be as close as possible to the justiciable. In the end, is it a good choice to prevent this person who wants to be close to appealing decisions on skills with a value of less than €2,000? I'm still dubious, and I'm wondering. Another aspect, unrelated to the above, is the reform of divorce by mutual consent. As you admitted, this reform was far from successful, since only one article concerned it in the proposed text. A fully written procedure would be pursued when agreements have been validly drafted and when the King's judge or prosecutor considers that it is not necessary to intervene because these agreements are correct. The written procedure does indeed appear to be in order. It was not possible to attach the bill that I introduced to make more fundamental changes to this divorce procedure by mutual consent. I agree objectively that you have agreed that these texts should be taken into account in a text which we are discussing at this time and whose second reading will take place next week in committee. We will therefore find these elements in a future text. In doing so, the reform you are considering of divorce by mutual consent will be much broader and more consistent than the one you proposed in the text that was the subject of the first reading. The nullity regime does not present too many problems, except that it will probably once again be a trial haven for certain proceedings. There will be scope for further litigation. On the other hand, the liaison magistrate is given a new status, which does not pose a problem to me since this practice already existed within the Public Prosecutor's Office. What is still a bit of a problem for me – I'm going to scratch you again, Minister – is the judiciary. You're offering us a temporary frame. Why temporary? This is still the second or third time this temporary framework has been renewed. If we renew the latter, it is because we realize that it is useful. It is known that, despite this temporary framework, there is a considerable backlog, if only at the Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeal in Brussels. It is therefore a necessary framework. At some point, it will have to become permanent, especially since you persist in failing to comply with the law, Minister, by saying that it is already extraordinary that the government in which you participate will do you a favor by allowing you to fill the 90% framework, while the law clearly and precisely requires that this framework be completed at 100%. To speak as a great lawyer, minister, notwithstanding all these remarks and observations, given the obvious need for reform, and because sometimes we have to go against a certain conservatism, despite the imperfections of your text and the questions we still ask ourselves about it, we will still support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u71	Mr. Chair, the most important point in this bill is the increase ratione summae in the jurisdiction of justices of the peace. It is a pure indexing that maintains the proximity of which most of the members of this chamber are protagonists. As regards civil procedure in general, it is true that this reform is partial. This is part of a larger draft prepared by four experts, but it translates the easiest points to address and get accepted by your room. As I have explained on other occasions, civil and criminal proceedings are the ones that are most resistant to any change, which require the most preparation. I therefore believe that this partial reform is justified and will reduce the workload of the courts of first instance, which, for the time being, are the most responsible for all courts and tribunals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u72	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u73	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2827/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2827/10) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation to reduce and redistribute the workload within the judicial order." The title has been changed by the committee to "a bill to reduce and redistribute the workload within the judiciary". The draft law has 84 articles. The bill has 84 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u74	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Dirk Janssens, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this text proposes to approve the cooperation agreement between the Federal and the Regions on the Belgian climate-energy objectives for 2013-2020. For the PTB, this agreement, first, is too late; second, it is too unambitious and third, it is based on blind confidence in the market. This agreement is too late. It was concluded in February 2018 to implement a 2008 European agreement to share the climate-energy targets for the period 2013-2020. Governments are unable to respond to the current climate emergency. For the PTB, the competences of climate and energy need to be re-established. CO2 does not stop at the linguistic border. Secondly, this agreement is too unambitious. The objectives set out in the agreement are insufficient in relation to the climate challenge. This agreement is up to the government's ambitions. As a reminder, the climate policy component of the government agreement has barely one page in a 230-page document. And even these targets will clearly not be achieved in 2020. Minister Marghem stated in May 2017 that achieving Belgium's climate targets for 2020 – I quote – is not the most important. What is important is to provide the framework for investments that will make it possible to move towards 2030." For the PTB, instead of the 15% reduction in non-ETS greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, we should have set a minimum of 40%. They should be reduced by 85% by 2050. This means that 80 per cent of currently known coal, oil and gas reserves must remain buried underground, according to the IPCC, to have two out of three chances of remaining below 2°C of warming. The target of 13% renewable energy by 2020 is also largely inadequate. The PTB defends a binding and planned policy to achieve 100% renewable energy by 2050. Finally, I'm making a third review. This agreement is based on blind confidence in the market. The agreement organises the distribution of revenues from CO2 emissions allowances. The PTB opposes this system. It is true that no other party represented here is calling into question the market mechanisms set up in Kyoto almost twenty years ago. However, these mechanisms have already largely shown that they are not working. The deal didn't work. The market for the future is not going to work. From the outset, the system was aberrant, ineffective, as it led states to buy emission rights abroad rather than reduce CO2 emissions. Quotas even allow multinationals to enrich themselves on the back of climate and the community or speculate on the quotas received from the Regions. And it is not every day that I quote the supreme leader of the Catholic Church. Even Pope Francis said in 2015 about these quota systems: "This system seems to be a quick and easy solution under the appearance of a certain commitment to the environment but which does not imply in any way any radical change to the height of the circumstances. On the contrary, it can become an expedient to support the overconsumption of certain countries and sectors." End of papal quote! No, I didn't do it in Latin. For the PTB, there is a need to introduce a binding logic for the effective reduction of national emissions with sanctions for polluters who do not meet the targets. The same applies to renewable energy targets. Here too, the current logic of the free market and the large multinationals of energy are a failure. The PTB defends the take-over by the energy community for ecological, social and democratic planning as well as a national public plan for the isolation of buildings. If we want to save the planet, we need to change this system and take the climate out of the market of large oil or energy companies that think only of profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u77	There are no other speakers anymore. A response from the government is not appropriate either. This is a statement and the draft was adopted unanimously in committee. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3019/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3019/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u80	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Barbara Pas, Filip Dewinter, Jan Penris. The Special Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Activities proposes that this proposal be rejected. (387/2) The Special Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Reform of Parliamentary Labour proposes to reject this proposal. (387/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Mrs Griet Smaers, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since you are not getting a report, I am obliged to tell you what it is about. At each plenary session there is the consideration of a whole series of proposals. As was also said in committee, this consideration in 99,99 % of cases is not a problem, it is purely a formality, whatever it should be. However, there are precedents because a party has been democratically elected to submit proposals that are rather sensitive to the regime. It would then appear that such proposals should not be discussed in Parliament, which should nevertheless be the House of Democracy and freedom of expression. This procedure of consideration is then abused in order to ensure that such proposals cannot even be discussed in this House. There have been precedents over and over again, even during the previous legislatures, such as a proposal from me to split the country and our amnesty proposal. Every time, they have been refused to discuss them in this House, hence a proposal to abolish that consideration. It's just a formality. In other parliaments, they don't even have that. It works perfectly without anyone in committee who has said that there must be a legislative test, a legal test, and I can reassure him that all this is preserved in this proposal. What struck me was that all the parties that have spoken in committee, from N-VA to PS, say they are in favour of freedom of expression, but that, if human rights are compromised, they should be able to stop it. Ladies and gentlemen, none of you have been able to answer my question as to what human rights are at stake in the legislative proposals that have been rejected here. What human rights are threatened by a proposal for division of the country? What human rights are at risk when discussing an amnesty proposal? You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that it has nothing to do with that. It is purely the proposals that are sensitive to this regime that are being refused. One can still say that one is in favour of freedom of expression and one can quote Voltaire here, and I agree with all those words, but if you really mean what you are saying and if you really care about freedom of expression, then only one consistent vote will be possible, namely to vote against the rejection of this proposal. Otherwise, you will simply be a hypocrite and continue to be a hypocrite in the possible misuse of the consideration to censorship. With this proposal we want to ban censorship, introduce genuine freedom of expression in this House and ensure that a parliament serves for which it should serve, namely to submit everything for discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u82	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u83	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 May 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Muriel Gerkens and Mrs Anne Dedry) allowing the identification of gamethen donation, No. 3101/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u84	- the bill (Mrs Peter De Roover, Ahmed Laaouej, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael, Ms Meryame Kitrir, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Ms Catherine Fonck) amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, No. 3104/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u85	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 May 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Muriel Gerkens and Anne Dedry) to allow the identifiable donation of gametes, No. 3101/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u86	- the bill (MM. Peter De Roover, Ahmed Laaouej, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael, Meryame Kitir, Jean-Marc Nollet and Catherine Fonck) amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, No. 3104/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u87	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to accept the urgency of the legislative proposal that has just been considered. 3104/1, which aims to regulate the continuity of the existing Privacy Commission and the transition to the Data Protection Authority. This proposal is introduced by all group leaders. All the group leaders supported the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[84]] Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2827/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2827/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u90	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3019/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3019/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u91	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 3) Yes 128 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Proposal No. 387/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Proposal No 387/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-17-54-plenair-ip229x.u92	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 24 May 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 24 May 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 24 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
