ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u1	Mr President, Minister, before I ask my question, I would like to raise a point of order. This is not the first time this has happened. Mr Minister, it is ridiculous to have you come here to answer a question that you answered on Thursday in plenary. My question was tabled on 10 September, well before this plenary. It has exactly the same object. It should have been attached to those questions put to the plenary. That was not the case. After the plenary session, the services of the House asked me to delete my question, which had the same scope as these topical issues. The same rules must be applied to everyone. The Rules of the Chamber provide that my question should have gone back to plenary. I can't be told that she can't go back and ask me to delete it after the fact. That's why I refused to delete it. Minister, I'll still ask you a few questions later. Mr President, I would like to make it clear. This is the second time this has happened to me. Let us avoid double standards, with questions that sometimes go back to plenary and others that do not go back, for I do not know what obscure reason, when the services, rightly, confirm after all that this is an issue with exactly the same scope. Mr. Speaker, I am counting on you to clarify compliance with the Rules of the House. Minister, I will be brief. I will not repeat the question asked in plenary on Thursday. That said, the way in which Mr Rustemi's case, which is still part of the most wanted case, has been handled in several ways. I asked the Secretary of State Franken about a number of points, in particular the way in which Belgium did not, inter alia, apply Articles 1 and 26 of the Law of 23 May 1990 allowing for inter-State transfer to Albania, since the person concerned was convicted. This would have prevented the release of one of the most wanted criminals in Belgium. I heard the answers you gave last week. However, let me recall that a bilateral agreement was signed by Belgium and Albania in July 2010 and entered into force in 2013. There was, therefore, a framework for the transfer of the convicted person whose execution of the sentence Belgium visibly did not wish to ensure. Last Thursday, you also said that you would discuss the matter with your Albanian colleague. This interview may have already taken place, and it is an opportunity to clarify the decisions you have taken to encourage cooperation between the Justice and the Office of Foreigners, not only between departments, but also with the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u2	Mrs Fonck, before giving the floor to Mrs De Coninck, I have taken note of your previous comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u3	Mr Minister, I will not repeat what happened in the Rustemi case, but I still have a number of questions to ask. We had asked for a committee meeting to be held with you and the Secretary of State on the matter. That was not the case, which is why I put my questions separately in the Committee on Justice, which I am not a member of. I am not a lawyer, so I would like to ask for some leniency in your answer, because I do not always fully understand the scope of certain legal terms you use. There was quite a bit of conflicting communication in the Rustemi case. First, it sounded like what happened to Rustemi was the standard procedure. It was then that the matter was examined. Can you tell me what the standard procedure is? Did things go wrong or not? In the plenary session of 19 July, you stated that the detention certificate, which stated that the person concerned was exempt under bail, was given to DVZ when they were transferred to DVZ. On the other hand, Mr Francken said that DVZ had not been informed. In the meantime, your colleague acknowledged that the detention certificate was presented. Was there any mention of the person being exempted under bail or not? In the plenary you also stated that you had been assured that DVZ has access to the database of the prison system, Sidis Suite. Faced with this, your colleague, Mr Francken, said in committee that the information is limited to the state of residence of the person concerned. Is that correct, or does that database contain more information? You said earlier that DVZ did not seek advice from the prosecution but that such a question is only mandatory in the case of terrorism in accordance with the more binding guidelines of COL 9/2005. However, your colleague Francken refers to another 2010 circular on the exchange of information between the prosecution and DVZ. He quoted in committee a passage to show that the initiative came to justice. How do the two circular letters relate to each other? It was announced that Justice would discuss this in the Co-ordination Return Working Group (COTER). What was the result? What analysis was made of the expulsion of Rustemi? What lessons were learned from this? What adjustments will be made? According to Secretary of State Francken, the incident is a rarity. Can you confirm that? How rare is that? Are there similar cases? Other convicts have been expelled, who are now fugitive and wanted by the Belgian police forces, without necessarily having to go on the most wanted list. If so, how many? How many of them might be on the most wanted list? The return figures for 2017 show that a total of 1 622 prisoners were deported. Of these, 1 475 were with 147 without conviction. How is someone like Rustemi, who was indeed convicted at the time of expulsion, counted? Is someone like that counted twice? Are there any Rustemi's underneath that 1475? In other words, were any of the convicts expelled before the start of the execution of their sentence? Is Rustemi unique in that respect? Secretary of State Francken noted in the committee on "I quote: "Therefore, it may be that the person concerned has already been removed at the time when the appeal is being dealt with on the substance." How many people were convicted and removed before the appeal can be dealt with on the merits? Isn't that a strange situation? Your colleague Francken felt that the problem was the shortage of places in Belgian prisons. "That's why there's a lot of conditional release." He even claimed that thanks to him the prison in Tilburg should no longer be rented. Would it have been a good thing to cut down the prison capacity if even someone was freed from Rustemi? Where are we on the extradition of Rustemi to Belgium? We read in the paper that everyone seems to know exactly where he is. Was there contact with the Albanian authorities and how did they react? In the meantime he has indeed been arrested; my question dates from a while ago. We regularly read reports on social media from your colleague, Mr Francken, about the total number of months of imprisonment sentenced. In July, for example, it was 3 659 months. As an example, how many months were effectively served? On 23 August it became known that a large-scale police operation along the E40 would have arrested a total of 10 human smugglers. In the meantime, have there been any freedom? Or are these people deported from the first possibility? If so, how many have been deported? We understand there's been a mistake at the Justice Department. They had chosen an extradition procedure instead of a penalty procedure. When did we see that mistake? How much time was lost? Why wasn't and isn't extradition possible? Surely there is an extradition treaty with Albania? Attorney Sven Mary said that extradition will eventually be necessary, because in a resistance procedure Rustemi will have to be present in person. What do you think of this? Will there not then be a request for extradition in an opposition procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u4	Mrs Fonck, Mrs De Coninck, I will try to answer your questions. If I don't get it in your opinion, I'll clarify what I'm saying next. I will begin with the question of cooperation between the Foreign Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office. You must be very clear that we are talking here technically about a person who has not yet been convicted, but who is released from remand. That is a very important difference, because cooperation between the prosecution and the Foreign Affairs Office is much more legally regulated for the convicted and leads to far better results than for persons in remand. It's about the convicts, too, about much bigger numbers. That should not be a reason to make you think that nothing is going well. That is certainly not the case. So agreements were made, among my predecessors, in 2010, with the COL 13/2010. This circular has a general scope, while the 2005 COL only deals with cooperation in cases of terrorism. There's the difference, Mrs. De Coninck. For this, cooperation is much more strictly regulated. It is not at all possible for the DVZ to proceed only to the expulsion of a released terrorist suspect. Today we try to update the other circular, the COL 13/2010. Without prejudice to the results of the consultations which have begun and which will continue on 10 October, it would be advisable for decisions to be taken by mutual agreement whenever a suspect has paid a bail, still has certain prison sentences in execution or pending cases, or if he is required to remain at the disposal of the court and/or not to leave the country. In short, as soon as it is clear that it is appropriate for the person concerned to remain in the country for a further course of justice, the Foreign Affairs Office should contact the Public Prosecutor's Office after the Foreign Affairs Office has found out that a person without a residence permit will be exempted from prison. Such cooperation will therefore be mandatory in those cases. This means that in these cases DVZ will have to ask the public prosecutor for advice. By arrondissement we will appoint a competent parquet magistraat. The tools for this are there, in the sense that both DVZ and the Public Prosecutor have access to Sidis Suite, as you said, in which both the status of residence and the judicial information, including the detention sheet, with the possible exemption under bail, are available. Today it is therefore optional but in the future it will be mandatory and already DVZ systematically contacts the prosecution in difficult cases. There was also a question from Mrs Gabriels. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u5	I had also established that, but I would like to be polite because three lines further on, Mrs De Coninck, appear in the question. So I'm gonna take my lead again. Mrs Gabriels asked a question about the 182 persons who were exempted after the removal of the arrest mandate. I can only report that these decisions are either from the investigating judge, or from the council chamber or from the chamber of incriminate. It is therefore decisions and motives of judges who decide autonomously whether a pre-trial detention is still necessary according to the criteria of the law. Justice has no figures and details of the number of persons effectively deported, so I cannot answer Mrs De Coninck's statistical questions. Nor can I provide data on the concrete criminal case of human trafficking on 23 August 2018 along the E40. On the specific case of Rustemi, at the risk of repeating myself, I can give you the following answers. With regard to Mr Rustemi's conviction by the Brussels Court of Appeal, I can inform you that on 25 January 2017, the person concerned was sentenced to nine years' imprisonment. The appeal in cassation against this judgment was dismissed on 24 May of the same year by the Court of Cassation. On 13 September, the Brussels Court of Appeal issued an improved judgement, with a correction to the date of birth of the accused. At the time of expulsion, in mid-June 2017, this person was not detained for the execution of sentences handed down by the Court of Appeal and the Indictments Chamber. The latter had already lifted the arrest warrant for other cases. Consequently, the Act of 23 May 1990 cited by Mrs Fonck could not be legally applied. At the beginning of September this year, the competent official of the SPF Justice, in collaboration with the Albanian authorities, applied the European Convention signed at The Hague on 28 May 1970 on the international value of repressive judgments. All relevant documents and enforceable documents relating to the deprivation of liberty have been transmitted to the Albanian State in order to enable it to enforce his prison sentences on its territory. So let it be clear that the first sentences to which Mr Rustemi was sentenced five years plus four years, i.e. nine years of res judicata, will be carried out in Albania. In addition, he was sentenced by default to 13 years, but for this there is no final judgment, as the time limit for opposition has not yet allowed. I cannot therefore give a ruling on this at the moment. On the basis of the execution of the transferred sentence, the first sentence, which is nine years, is therefore carried out in Albania. The transfer of the judgment of translation to Albania took four months and a few days. You can do that faster. As has just been said, the only proper procedure is that laid down in the European Convention of the Council of Europe on the International Validity of Criminal Judgments of 28 May 1970. In this respect, at Mrs De Coninck's request, I can also say that Albania does not hand its own nationals over to Belgium. With regard to the possible opposition procedure against two default sentences and the defence initiatives in them, as Minister of Justice, as I said earlier, I cannot, of course, give a ruling. A third series of questions concerns the transfer of sentenced persons. Belgium is party to the 1983 Council of Europe Convention on the transfer of sentenced persons. It's the transfer with the inmate's consent. The Additional Protocol of 1997 to that Convention regulates the transfer without the consent of the inmate. In addition, the 2008 European Framework Decision on the mutual recognition of penalties and measures, pronounced in a Member State of the European Union, applies with the transfer with and without the consent of the detained person and the readmission of the enforcement of criminal sentences. These instruments cover the entire European territory and, by extension, the non-members of the Council of Europe, such as Australia, the United States, Canada, India, Japan and most of the South American countries. In addition, Belgium has concluded bilateral agreements with Albania, Hong Kong, Kosovo, Morocco, Thailand and the Dominican Republic. Transfer agreements have also been concluded with the Congo and China, but they have not yet been ratified. If these countries refuse the transfers, this is usually for the following reasons: there are no means or capacity to transfer the prisoner, the prisoner no longer has family links with his country of origin or the country considers the transfer to be a favor and not a right. Finally, I would like to address Mrs De Coninck's question on prison capacity in relation to expulsion. Convicts without a right of residence shall be expelled after serving the part of their sentence required by law or regulation. These are individual decisions of the penitentiary administration for those sentenced with a set of sentences of up to three years and of the criminal courts for those sentenced with sentences of over three years. It is common for these convicted persons to be punished in full for failing to obtain early release. There is also an effective repatriation policy for these cases at the end of the sentence. These measures account for one of the reasons why the penitentiary overpopulation fell from about 23% to about 8% today during this legislature. Once again, we have been better equipped in terms of execution and the convicts than in terms of the provisional detainees. Finally, to answer Mrs Fonck's supplementary question about my meeting with the Minister of Justice of Albania, I would say that it was a cordial, very direct and very open interview. In the good diplomatic tradition, it will not be the subject of more explanations on my part. But be sure that, in the future, both countries will cooperate more in the transfer of prisoners, the execution of sentences and the prosecution of suspects such as Mr Rustemi.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear what you're telling me. The Act of 23 May 1990 could not be applied. You said it was not legally applicable. If I am not mistaken, even though you know this a thousand times better than I am, this law does not only concern the transfer of convicted persons who are deprived of their liberty, since it may also concern persons who have been released or released on condition. I therefore confess that I have not grasped at all the reason for this "non-legally applicable" character. I will allow myself to dig a little more into this subject. On the other hand, you also explained that there was not yet any ratification of internal agreements between different countries for persons convicted without their consent. You did not mention at all the bilateral agreement between Belgium and Albania of 29 July 2010 on the transfer without consent of convicted persons, which is the case for the nine-year term of Mr Rustemi. It entered into force on 1 December 2013. Why could this bilateral agreement with Albania not be used here? This remains, in my view, a particularly nebulous subject of questioning. More generally, such expulsion and release have serious consequences, as new clearly serious offences have been committed in Albania. In addition to this, you have made commitments to strengthen cooperation between your services, Justice and the Office of Foreigners, which, in this case, could have had sufficient information. Beyond the statements of each other, especially on the part of the government, the future will tell us whether anything that has happened with Rustemi will happen again and whether this case, which has been dealt with with with a great deal of lightness, will not be a problem for other convicts. Finally, Minister, let me tell you how much the handling of this case involving one of the most wanted criminals raises questions. On the one hand, the government is working on families, including the Serbian family whose children only know Dutch. With great communications, he wants to show them as examples in the context of expulsions. On the other hand, there are deportations with release, followed by further serious acts committed by criminals. Minister, I would like to ask you about this double standard, which is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although you cannot answer a number of questions. You call for the separation of powers and the lack of statistical data. I would have liked to know whether Mr Rustemi is really the big exception. Or have there been cases of convicted persons who were still expelled? I hear that there is work being done to improve cooperation on the exchange of data between DVZ and the judicial authorities. I believe that we should remain vigilant when it comes to DVZ. After all, I note that DVZ is not only making decisions on this issue...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In order to obtain certain figures, regulations and legal rules are not always respected. I hope you will be able to reach an agreement with the Secretary of State on controlling DVZ so that they do not cross the line. It is not that I believe that this is always done consciously, but you know that there is blurring of standards when people work together for a time. That needs to be checked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's 26872 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u9	Minister, your plan to reform the organization of the prison services and the status of prison staff is the subject of serious criticism by the trade unions. One of the only components – or even the only one – that seemed rather positive to them was health care coverage for staff. However, this chapter, contained in the first version of the draft bill, appears to have disappeared from the following versions. Minister, are you considering keeping this aspect of health care in the reform in question? If not, why did you abandon him?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u10	Mr Van Hees, it is true that the first versions of the draft contained a part which provided for the intervention of the federal authority in part of the cost of health care, through insurance concluded by the employer whose terms and conditions had to be laid down by a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. Nevertheless, the Council of Ministers had questions about the original provision and more specifically about its scope and the related budget estimate. In the meantime, I have asked my administration to quantify the costs of a possible formula. I have therefore absolutely not ruled out this possibility. On the contrary! However, I do not share the view that these provisions would be the only positive part of the bill. The bill contains several other very positive elements for the development and career of prison staff as a whole. I draw particular attention to the aspect relating to the differentiation of functions and the integration of training into career development.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I would have liked to have made a little clearer. Finally, did you take a stand? Yes? Is that how you should understand your answer? Have you decided to do so? This is not found in the following versions of the draft legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u12	Yes. This will happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic976x.u13	So you confirm that it will be good in the project? [[Sentiment]] J'en prends note.
